Feminist Bookstore News
Source: Reveal Digital, 01-01-1996
Contributed by: Carol Seajay; Carroll; Barbara; Laurel Sager; Julie Schaper; Dorothy
Holland; Paula Wallace; Sherry Emory; Beth Morgan; Barbara Wilson; Urvashi Butalia; Ritu
Menon; Heather L. Smith; Bruce McPherson; Jenn Tust; Suzanne; Roz Warren; Suzanne; Nan
Cinnater; Susanna Sturgis; Alexandra Wilson; Tee A. Corinne; Jennifer Einhorn; Richard
Labonte; Mev Miller; Patty Callaghan; Sandi Torkildson
Stable URL: https://www.jstor.org/stable/community.28036372
Licenses: Creative Commons: Attribution-NonCommercial
JSTOR is a not-for-profit service that helps scholars, researchers, and students discover, use, and build upon a wide
range of content in a trusted digital archive. We use information technology and tools to increase productivity and
facilitate new forms of scholarship. For more information about JSTOR, please contact support@jstor.org.
This item is openly available as part of an Open JSTOR Collection.
For terms of use, please refer to our Terms & Conditions at https://about.jstor.org/terms/#whats-in-jstor
Reveal Digital is collaborating with JSTOR to digitize, preserve and extend access to Reveal Digital
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:27:01 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist
Bookstore o
News Bily
January/February 1996 Volume 18 Number 5
Femina SCIARA Am F324 78 [21196
À
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:27:01 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsОМЕ СОМРАМУ. ОМЕ САЛ.
ТНЕ ВЕЗТ 5МАІЛ. РКЕЅ5 ЗИ ЕСТІОМ.
1-800-257-8481
КОЕМ ВООК
ОТЗТКІВОТОКУ, ІМС.
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:27:01 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
o
o
„©
o
OO 050" 0 o
Welcome to our International Women’s Voices fax when necessary! Thanks, Carole! We’ll miss work-
issue! It features a great line-up of articles that address ing with you and wish you the best of luck!
a few of the many issues and barriers that women face Susanna Sturgis, FBN’s longest running colum-
trying to hear and be heard across national bound- nist, is looking for the right woman to take over her
aries. We look briefly at one African woman’s writing fantasy /science fiction column. If you're that woman,
career, at the joy of starting and running the first contact Susanna (see her column for addresses) or me
Chinese-language feminist bookstore, at the some- at FBN.
times delightful (and sometimes maddening) happen- We're looking for one or two good (or obsessive!)
stances and luck that make the difference between an in-town or out-of-town proofreaders. (Read FBN
international audience and none. And we do some- before it’s even published!) We’re also looking for one
thing that FBN “never” does — excerpts from books: or two women who can come into the office to scan
the first looks at feminist publishing in the Third final layouts the week we go to press. If that’s you,
World; the second looks at the ways lesbians’ human please call me at FBN!
rights are violated globally. Both are from exciting Yours in spreading the words,
new publications that couldn't, wouldn't have been Carol Seajay
generated by mainstream presses.
It’s an exciting issue, produced in the midst of
great duress and we're very proud of it. FBN
Please accept our apologies for any irregularities Deadlines
you've encountered in our office this fall. In addition to
having new staff and old staff in new positions, we also
took time out for an office-wide flu epidemic that actu-
ally closed the office and ate a couple of weeks out of our
production schedule, a hurricane-force rain storm that Spring Announcements Issue
wasn't called that because California doesn’t have hur-
ricanes, and a few other events that I can’t recall at the January 5
moment! I think this may be business as usual!
Meanwhile, bookstores have been wading Special ABA Issue
through the holiday selling season and some truly
wretched snow storms, the loss of a key distributor May/June 1996
and a plague of computer problems at other distribu- March 1
tors as well as the chronic superstore competition.
Comings and goings: We're losing one of our Summer/Sidelines Issue
most committed volunteer proofreaders, Carole
London, of the Book Garden, as she moves on to other May 10
endeavors. She proofed by express mail, Fed Ex, and
Volume 18 Number 5 January/February 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:27:01 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsNEW!
Large Print
Editions
: t
INVA
SNO eN
N OldA
Maude Mechan IN
NAE
Ma
When I Am
an Old Woman
1 Shall Wear Purple
Edited by
Sandra Haldeman Martz
KiIKANZA NURI ROBINS RRE ° Nat is o n U aln a Abr di sd g &e t P T ue bx lit city
224 pages, 7x9.25,
ISBN 0-918949-83-1
AU nn s p Inok ne en r JV ois ui ro nn es: y ATi sm sise t e f do r L i vL io nv ge : Viewed W Sea les ch ti en dg Pt oh ee m sStones: : p a Pp ue br ., d$ a1 t7 e. :0 0 April 1996
Kikanza Nuri Robins, Ed.D. by One of the Very Old 1975-1995
More than a blank book, this Janet Carncross Chandler Maude Meehan
Describing her transition of liv- Wise and tender poems chroni-
graphics and affirmations on ing independently to living with cle Meehan’s 75-year journey as
each page to inspire both new assistance and encountering a a political activist, wife, mother,
and experienced journalers to new love life, Chandler provides and now, widow. This stunning
a retired social worker's view of collection spans 20 years of
the inside of long-term care facil- work from Chipping Bone, Before
touched thousands of lives ities. Her poetic reflections res- the Snow, plus new, never-befor-
onate with elegance and insight. published poems. “With plea- If I Had My Life to
esteem, personal development ° Previous poetry collection sure, I recognize a sister poet Live Over I Would
and assertivesness. Why Flowers Bloom in 2nd printng who can love both women and Pick More Daisies
° ° ° ° 51 I S -2 BcU 8W I Na o on N f nn a l -of o t pi S r iq ri a 0tr p oku go -m n e se e 9r cr h a s 1oa e s l ,ot 8v j o o p i 9 en So Au 6 4ra un r xd 9,l T ps n 9s - o p 8a , a d u ol 8w c& e r r -iw vr d 2tw ei i - ,Pt rl i fott M u e r pe ph -b ean aom l et p i e ci e e n r bb in rptis iy ,at ya np p. l di s e $r a , r 1i nn 2 g . 9e 5xpert a° I P1 Sc u2 B i0 bN dw N .-a / f t p 1 r di a 00 o e ag -n, e t9e0 ea s 10 :l , p 8 0 9a AA p6 4c px e 9do r r-9sp 9 i,i l 1e & - s 5 2 1 - , 9cP i 9on u 6pl b o a l rp pi cr e i ri ctn ,oy t v . $er 9, .00 m ° ° 2 a° I PS c 4 u e Bi0E I bN dn n N n .-. a -” f pd t S r di ao 0 t o eg a— r o -n e tes 9r eaS se 1e :l ,m d p 8 9aS Ma A 6 p 4bl u xl e 9d ay p 9 r y-s p , 8 P o 5 Lr &r 1-5e u 8t 9-s c , 9cs Pi o 6l M u l l peR oba a rle t pi v C e c e ri il c re ti i o ,fw a y vlt s eo $rn 1, 3.00 » N a Pt I S ui° 2 o B bp4 n N .a0U a p lE n de pd a 0 r aAb ai - t,t g 9r ede e 1 :i $s d d s 8 1 ,g A9 7&e 4 b p.7d 09 y r x 0 -P i 89 lT u 4.2 e b - 13x Xl 9i ,t c 9i 6ty
Pub. date: May 1996
National
Association for
® the Visually
Handicapped
APPROVED
6A01
January/February 1996 Volume 18 Number 5
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:27:01 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFBN
Editor & Publisher
Carol Seajay INTERNATIONAL WOMEN’S VOICES
Assistant Editor Fem Books: The Feminist Store in Taiwan ....17
Jenn Tust Women:in Translation . . . . ... u. 9 1.. 23
Advertising & Production Unspoken Rules/Global Lesbians ........ 27
Kathryn Werhane . Feminist Publishing in the Third World . ..... 29
Columnists Heinemann’s Women Writers Series . ...... 33
Art Books Tee Corinne Finding the Authors, Choosing the Books .. . . .37
Canadian Books Alexandra Wilson Women’s Voices from Around the World ..... 41
Gay Men’s Literature Richard Labonte
Humor Roz Warren ARTICLES
Music News Jennifer Einhorn Bookstore: News 3 v. df asia. 13
Mysteries Nan Cinnater News/ShortiStories: sse a vlu... . 7
New Media Dorothy Holland Pat Barker Wins the Booker • Virago Press Sold • Charges
Science Fiction Susanna Sturgis Dropped Against ABA-2 • Court Approves InBook/WomanSource
University Presses Mev Miller Sale to Login • Koen Launches Magazine Distribution Program •
Proofreading Houghton Mifflin and Penguin Settle with ABA • Inland
Elaine Blake, C aa nr do l e C a L thon led eo nn , M B ooet rh e Morgan Se B la ln ik nru gp t cy A Fa l Flou et m • i C nlo it sh tes p in B oF oev ker s tC olo rsin eg D ..o .w ..n ...... 45
Cover Art DEPARTMENTS
S. Guppy Graphics Ad'Index: = 0 N SUP. 111
Announcements’ 1. P SU 1. a. 46
Fem i 2n 3i 5s 8t MBo ao rk ks et to r Se t rN eee tws BCacLkl atos e sPriefsts i &e t dOth ee r A Grodod ss N.e.w..s . N .. ... .. 5 41812
PO Box 882554
San Francisco CA 94188
415-626-1556 FAX: 415-626-8970 Subscription Information, `... . =.. >: 22
e-mail: seajay @ dnai.com They. Went That-A-Way . -w u. 47
Writing:Wanted= > esale o l.. 49
Printed in USA
FEMINIST BOOKSTORE NEWS is the communications THE BOOKS
v sF te B oh N ri ec s l re e i a nf c o h r te hs t e h 5 e 0 U 0 . Si n .f f e ao m nr dm in a is Cl t a nn a ae n dt d aw o ar f sk e m w o in ef li ls tf - ae i sm n ci fln i ei n ms et d i n b isbo too ok k bs ot -o or ke -s. A Ci a B nOO aK dS i aU no01 s Biu O 0 O5 kR S e r d ` .r .a . e a . . s e -a = 6 r3 61
Is ne dl ial ,e r Js ap a ni n a n dE n Keg nl ya an . d Li, b r aE riu anr s,o p we o, m e nA ’s u ss tt ur dia eslia, New Zealand, G Ha Uy M M Oen 's . L eil . . a . e. e G e 5e 4 67
teachers, book reviewers, publishers and feminist biblio-
philes comprise the remainder of the subscribers. MUSIC NEWS. s e ae K S 65
Letters, articles, news items and announcements should MYSÍGrieS. ura 57
be received the tenth of the month preceding publication.
Sauigtnheodr s .articles and letters are the responsibility of the N Oew u rM e d Oia W. s neis i s Paa rui en sé s a e- s S it = a > s i id s eas 5 k1 71
pF uE blM ishI eN d I bS i-T m o nB thO lyO K inS T JaO nR uaE ry , N ME arW ch,S M a( yIS , S JN ul: y , 0741-6555) is P Su cbl ii esh ner cs e.R .O Fw iW ctw i; o 3 n .= . =ou .o r s d .% a9 9 59
S Ne Ep Wte Sm b ae tr , 2 3a 5n 8d M N ao rv ke em t b Se tr . , b Sy a n F E FM raIN ncIS isT c o ,B O CO AK S 9T 4O 1R 1E 4. Sidelines. S A r 55
S Pe Oc So Tn Md- AC Sl Tas Es R :P o Ps lt ea ag se e p sea nid d a at d dS ra en s s F cr han anci gs ec so , t oCA. Small Presses... r e a V 17
FEMINIST BOOKSTORE NEWS, PO Box 882554, San University Presses... . 91
Francisco, CA 94188-2554.
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:27:01 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
A revolutionary medical discovery for women...
In The Hormone of Desire, distinguished psychiatrist Dr. Susan Rako
argues brilliantly that testosterone, not estrogen, is the supplement that
can safely restore libido, energy and a sense of well-being in menopausal
women—and provides all the relevant medical information.
Harmony Books * 0-517-703424 ° $21.00
An emotional story
of the bond between mother and daughter...
Zenzele is a remarkable novel by a remarkable woman—a writer,
neurosurgeon and art gallery owner who is originally from Zimbabwe—
J. Nozipo Maraire. In her letter to her daughter, “we each become her child,
enriched by her knowledge born of laughter and pain.— Rita Mae Brown.
Crown °• 0-517-702428 • $20.00 J. NOZIPO MARAIRE
The Zenith of Desire |
Sexy, irreverent poems for Lesbian lovers...
For Valentine's Day— or just for the fun of it—The Zenith of Desire
is the ideal gift book, with the emphasis on contemporary writers from
Gertrude Stein to Audre Lorde, from Chrystos to Joan Larkiñ.
Edited by Gerry Gomez Perlberg
Crown * 0-517-702819 ° $12.00
Ps
Sensational erotic advice from a bestselling author...
Following the phenomenally successful 203 Ways to Drive A Man Wild in
Bed, Olivia St. Claire’ new little red book, Unleashing the Sex Goddess
in Every Woman, is filled with suggestions that will cultivate the inherent
sensuality and erotic impulses that are a part of every woman.
Harmony Books • 0-517-704382 e $18.00
From the acclaimed author of Goodbye, Saigon...
Between Sisters is the deeply affecting new novel by Nina Vida—”a small,
authentic miracle of a book...no reader who has ever had a sibling will remain
unmoved by this portrait of the special love and dedication that sometimes
flourishes in the shadow of a fractured family.” — Linda Gray Sexton
| Crown ° 0-517-700719 e $23.00
[CROWN]
January/February 1996 4 Volume 18 Number 5
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:27:01 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Volumes of Pleasure Bookshop bookstores. You may contact her in care of her
1016 Los Osos Valley Road publisher: Morningstar Books, PO Box 4032, San Rafael
Los Osos CA 93402 CA 94913; 415-472-6000, fax 415-479-1320.
Of course, this is a small victory, but we thought
Dear Carol & FBN friends: your readers would like to know the outcome and
Wel], I have some good news to report for a perhaps contact the author.
change! In the last FBN, you printed my letter about Thanks for being there for us to network.
the slick flyer from the Christian Coalition promoting Sincerely,
their book Contract With the American Family which Carroll & Barbara
was included in an Ingram mailing to their bookstore
customers.
Barbara and I attended The Northern California Two Sisters Bookshop
Independent Booksellers’ Association trade show in 605 Cambridge Avenue
early October (it’s always a great trade show and a Menlo Park CA 94025
good substitute for the overwhelming ABA). There December 15, 1995
we met Helen Ellerbe, author of The Dark Side of
Christian History. We were both impressed with her Dear FBN,
book, and we told her of the mailing and suggested Just thought I'd drop a note about an author we
that her book would be an excellent antidote to the just had here: Donna Gillespie who wrote The Light
Christian Coalition book. She and her publisher Bearer, a historical novel along the lines of The Mists
seemed most interested in the project, so when we of Avalon.
got home, I located a copy of the slick flyer and Donna contacted me a few months ago to call the
mailed it off to them suggesting that they contact book to my attention and shared with me her disap-
Ingram to see if a flyer promoting The Dark Side of pointment with the publisher’s decisions around
Christian History could be included in a future marketing and the cover art. I had had the book here,
Ingram mailing. before she called, and had already returned it because
it sat on the shelf and didn’t sell. The cover art was a
problem to many women: it was just another sex-pot
sci-fi image. After speaking with Donna I decided to
They followed up on our suggestion, and we give the book another try, and I scheduled her for a
received a note from the author thanking us for our reading and signing.
follow-through and letting us know that “we are par- I have had the chance to share this with customers,
ticipating in Ingram’s flyer program; over 9,000 and it’s prompted them to look past the cover. I under-
bookstores should be receiving our flyer on our book stand from Donna the book will soon be released with
very soon.” a revised cover. :
Helen Ellerbee, the author, let us know that she is Donna has a lot of integrity and commitment to
available to do author appearances and signings at her work; she wants women to hear her story and its
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:27:01 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
power if it speaks to them. As a woman I want to Alyson Publications. Additionally, we distribute
support her in this; as a woman bookbuyer I want to many quality presses who also publish books of inter-
support her work in ways the publisher either could est to feminist, lesbian, and gay audiences.
not or chose not to. If you need a set of catalogs, please call us at
So there’s my vote! 1-800-283-3572. Also, in early 1996 we will be supple-
Thanks women, menting our complete catalogs with individual
Laurel Sager subject catalogs in the areas of Women’s Studies,
African American Studies and Lesbian/Gay Studies.
If you would like assistance from someone experi-
Consortium Book Sales and Distribution enced in feminist bookselling, please contact Mev
1045 Westgate Drive Miller — our telemarketing coordinator — at the
Saint Paul MN 55114 above number. She can help you determine what Con-
November 15, 1995 sortium services will best suit your needs.
Dear Feminist Booksellers,
With the recent changes at Inland Book Co., we
know that many stores are looking for alternative We know that many women’s and independent
sources for the books you may usually have bought booksellers are “holding their own” in these economi-
from them. We’d like to take this opportunity to cally tough and competitive times. We wish you the
remind you of the many fine women’s and gay presses best of luck in the upcoming new year. Our lives are
distributed by Consortium Book Sales and Distribu- much richer for the work done by feminist booksellers.
tion. We are the distributor for Aunt Lute Books, Sincerely,
CALYX Books, Eighth Mountain Press, Feminist Press Julie Schaper
at CUNY, Third Side Press, Women in Translation and (Sales Manager) and the folks at Consortium O
OutWrite 96
Feb. 23-25
Featuring
Edmund White,
creative and political issues D reo an d't in gm s,i s s p o t eh tre y p a sn lae mls ,, cw oo nr vk es rh so atp is o, ns, O 2u 9tW r Sit te anhope Street
facing our communities. Join caucuses, performances, networking Boston, MA 02116
us to see our history and our sessions, and the new film and video (617) 262-6969
future being written! component! e-mail: outwrite@bsef.terranet.com
Look for our new web site for the
Lunch and converse with prominent latest updates!
keynotes and presenters at the Visions
Registration fees are nonrefundable.
January/February 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:27:01 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termssoon to announce structures and plans except to say
that our first task is to identify the women that will
lead Virago into the next century, and that Virago will,
of course, be a separate imprint of Little Brown UK.
Feminist writer Pat Barker won the U.K.’s Booker As a sister imprint to Abacus it will give Little Brown
Prize for The Ghost Road (Viking; Dutton in the U.S.), UK an unusual strength and balance in the literary
the final part of her anti-war trilogy based in WW I. marketplace. With the extraordinary changes in the
Her previous titles include Blow Your House Down publishing scene in the last decade, Virago needs the
(Virago), Century's Daughter (Virago), Eye in the Door help today that a larger, well-capitalised structure and
(Penguin), The Man Who Wasn't There, and Regenera- a really strong sales and marketing force can offer it.”
tion (Penguin). In addition to carrying an anti-war Virago Managing Director Harriet Spicer and
theme, Barker’s novels have featured feminist and Carmen Callil both spoke enthusiastically about the
gay characters and themes and addressed the difficult shift in ownership, as did Gail Rebuck, Chairman and
situations of the elderly poor. Chief Executive of Random House/UK. Virago had
Salman Rushdie had been favored to win the been owned by Random House prior to buying them-
£20,000 ($32,000) prize for The Moor’s Last Sigh. The selves out several years ago. |
two titles were the front-runners in the five-title short-
list chosen by judges from a record 141 submissions.
The Connecticut bankruptcy court approved the
Philippa Harrison, the Managing Director of Lit- sale of InBook Distribution Company (including
tle Brown UK, announced in November that Little WomenSource) to Login Publishers Consortium in
Brown has bought Virago. “I make this announce- early December for an estimated $150,000.
ment with great pride,” she said. “In my 30 years of Books and computerized information regarding
publishing I have admired the birth, growth and vig- inventory and accounts will be transferred to the
our of Virago more than any British publishing Chicago-based company in January and February.
venture. From its inception, Virago has become the Books will continue to be shipped from the old
centre of intellectual debate about the position of Inland (Connecticut) warehouse until Login has
women in society and, with its magnificent classics enough books to fulfill orders from their Chicago
list, provides a literary and emotional context for the facility in late January or February. An estimated
female experience. The Virago list is close to my heart, 30-35 truckloads of books will be moved to Login in
and it will be one of the greatest pleasures of my January and February.
publishing life to work in this area with the staff I shall According to Publishers Weekly reports, Login is
be appointing.” purchasing InBook’s publisher contracts for six
She added, “I am determined that Little Brown months, will set up InBook as a separate division and
will provide a home which will both honòur Virago’s will hire additional staff to run the expanded opera-
past and bring a new and different 90s vision. It is too tion. InBook is the first acquisition for the
January/February 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:27:01 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsfive-year-old Login, which represents 60 publishers of
Publishers who are expected to non-fiction. InBook represents about 80 publishers.
move to WomenSource/Login Most InBook reps are reported to be continuing
include: on with InBook /Login, except in the South and South-
east. David Wilk will start at Login on January 1, but
Biblio Press is not scheduled to move to Chicago until June. Other
Down There InBook staff who will work for InBook/ Login, but will
Flash Back remain based in the East, include Ann Grossman,
Gallerie* Craig Gilmore, and Dave Givens.
HerBooks* Although WomenSource was included as part
Institute of Lesbian Studies* of the sale, a number of publishers are not making
Kitchen Table the change to Login, including The Women’s
Laugh Lines P Cr oe ns ss o/ rU tiK u, m A ), u n Ct a i llL eu ct he , ( Cw lh otic hh e s pi is n a l Fs eo v ed ri s t ar ni db u Pte ad r a -by
Mother Courage* digm (which have ceased publishing), Desert Crone,
Naiad Impertinent Press, Helicon Nine, Lavender Crystal
Plain View Press, Mother Tongue, Post Apollo-Press (now avail-
able from Interlink), Sudie Rakusin/Amazon
Rising Tide
Images, VSE, and Vintage 45. The WomenSource
Sanguinaria* program represented something of a middle ground
Third Woman between The InBook Distribution Program and
Inland’s wholesale program; WomenSource had its
WomenSource publishers who own catalog, and books were sold by InBook reps. It
have been discontinued include: will clearly need to be revamped if it is to continue
with its mission at Login.
Aunt Lute (at Consortium) Orders for InBook and WomenSource titles can
Caillech now be sent to Login Publishers/InBook, 1436 W.
Clothespin Fever (ceased publishing) Randolph St., Chicago IL 60607; 800-243-0138; fax 800-
Desert Crone* 334-3892; electronic 800-453-0077. (Orders for Inland
Earth Books titles may be sent to Koen/Inland at 800-257-8481.
Many InBook and WomenSource titles will also be
Impertinent Press* available at Koen and other distributors.)
Helicon Nine Returns of titles distributed by Login will be ac-
Lavender Crystal Press cepted by Login beginning in January. (Attn: InBook
Mother Tongue Returns, Login Publishers/InBook, 4029 W. George
St., Chicago IL 60641.) InBook and WomenSource or
Paradigm (ceased publishing)* other titles not distributed by Login may be returned
Post-Apollo Press (at Interlink) to InKo (at the Connecticut warehouse) until January
Sudie Rakusin/Amazon Images* 31. They should be shipped via a traceable or insured
VSE method only. InKo won't be responsible for books
shipped or returned to them after January 31, as the
Vintage 45 facility is scheduled to be shut down shortly there-
Women’s Press/UK after. Alternately, it may be possible to do returns to a
publisher’s new distributor.
* indicates publishers that are not currently
publishing new titles. the n a“ mTh ee I nol ld an dIn l oa rn d I, n” B ow oh ki ,c h s i nca cn e tlo hn eg see r n ale mg ea sll y h au vs ee
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:27:01 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsPublishers who are Knowledge, Ideas & Trends InBook publishers
expected to move to The Literary Press Group/ who have been
InBook/Login include: Canada* discontinued include:
Astarte Shell New Society Africa World/Red Sea Press
Azul Editions New Victoria (now available from Red Sea
Bay Press Onlywomen Distribution)
BlackWattle Press Papier-Mache Attic Press
M Ca ar sio sn e lB l oy Per rs e P sl su to Gang Dalkey Archive (now from
University of Chicago
C Eom Cm Won C o Su era cge o nSc darl e t S P tr oess ry Distribution)
Paris Press (now from
Firebrand South End
Consortium)
Gåy Men’s Press Spinifex
Guernica Editions Spinsters * LPG publishers include
gynergy books/ Talonbooks Arsenal Pulp, Blizzard, Coteau,
Ragweed Turtle Island Foundation Goose Lane, Mercury, New
Health Alert Vega Press Star, NeWest, Oolichan,
Hysteria The Women’s Press/ Quarry, Sister Vision,
International Books Canada Turnstone, and Véhicule.
been sold to Koen and Login, respectively, will now be An estimated 250,000 books on consignment from
legally known as InKo Books. (InCo, for Inland Com- various Inland publishers remain in the InKo ware-
pany, was already reserved as a fictitious name in house as of this writing. Publishers will be required to
Connecticut, hence InKo, the next nearest name that pay packing and shipping to have their books returned
was available.) or to make alternate arrangements. =CS
InKo will ship books for Login, aid in the transi-
tion of InBook to Login and Inland to Koen, accept
returns through January 31, pursue collections on
accounts receivable, and close down the business
dealings of the old Inland.
InKo reports that the InBook /Connecticut opera- Koen Book Distributors has launched a new mag-
tion “freed of the pre-bankruptcy debt, actually made azine distribution program as part of their program to
a profit in September, October, and November.” serve Inland (wholesale) publishers and booksellers.
InKo’s major task during the upcoming months will Minimum standing order for each magazine is three
be to collect as much as possible of the $3.75 million copies. Discount is 40%, and returns made within 30
listed in its accounts receivables. Proceeds from InKo’s days of receiving the new issue will be credited at 40%.
income will be used to 1) pay off the IRS debt and the Free freight and freight reduction programs also
lawyers, 2) pay secured creditors, 3) pay post-bank- apply to Koen periodicals. Additional copies of mag-
ruptcy administrative and publisher bills, and 4) with azines may also be ordered at any time.
whatever funds remain, pay unsecured creditors Publications that have signed on to the new Koen
(pre-bankruptcy debt), in that order. Magazine program include 13th Moon, 50/50,
January/February 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:27:01 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
charged him with criminal trespass and assaulting a
police officer. TV news video footage, however,
substantiated Wilson’s statement that McCormick
Place Security Officers had, in fact, pulled him into
the building against his will and that he resisted
being pulled into the building and the illegal attack
on his person, but did not, as McCormick Place Se-
curity charged, assault anyone, police officer or
otherwise.
Both men were required to attend the initial
court date in July, and, when the case was postponed
at McCormick Security’s behest to allow them more
time to obtain additional TV news footage (which
Charges of criminal trespass and assaulting an they obviously hoped would bolster their case and
officer against schoolteacher Craig Gilmore and dis- contradict the video footage already in their posses-
ability rights activist Tom Wilson were dropped in sion), both were required to attend a second court
October. Both had been arrested and charged at last date in October, despite requests that Gilmore’s case
June's ABA convention while participating in the anti- be heard immediately as postponing the date to
Newt Gingrich/anti-Contract on America October would interfere with his classroom respon-
demonstration while Gingrich was speaking at the sibilities.
“Power Lunch” on the final day of the convention. Charges were officially dropped at the October
Craig Gilmore, one of the dozen or so people who hearing with the caveat that Wilson not engage in
spoke from the floor to address how the Gingrich illegal activities at McCormick Place. “Not a prob-
proposals would actually affect Americans, was the lem,” Wilson told FBN, “since I have never engaged in
only one of these speakers who was arrested. any illegal activities at McCormick Place.”
Gilmore’s statements were specific to describing how Charges against Sue Ostfield, the independent
cutting out hot lunch programs would affect the stu- sales rep arrested and charged with “assaulting a
dents he teaches. He was separated from the other police officer” while she was handing out leaflets,
floor speakers and arrested when they were removed were dropped at a special hearing in June. At the time
from the hall where Gingrich was speaking. He was charges were dropped, a commitment was made to
arrested for trespassing despite the fact that he had a have the arrest expunged from her record. We will
luncheon ticket. advise readers when we've received confirmation that
Chicagoans who had neither luncheon tickets nor this process has been completed.
ABA badges were not allowed into the Convention Many ABA-member booksellers and exhibitors
Center and were forced to hold their demonstration in have expressed serious concern about McCormick
the courtyard in front of the building. Feeling that Place Security's consistent disregard of First Amend-
their rights to free speech and assembly were being ment rights at the ABA Convention and about what
compromised, a number of the disability rights activ- steps are being taken to ensure that their rights will not
ists, lead by a contingent of people who use be compromised or threatened at the forthcoming
wheelchairs for mobility, attempted to bring the dem- convention.
onstration into the building where the Power Lunch As we went to press we learned that Syracuse
was being held. None of the people using wheelchairs Cultural Workers, a long-time exhibitor at ABA, has
was arrested (although many did enter the building decided not to exhibit at the 1996 Convention, citing,
and some were held in the building and not allowed among other reasons, the harassment of their staff at
to leave it when they wanted to rejoin the demonstra- the 1995 convention, who were threatened and pre-
tion outside). vented from distributing leaflets at the convention, and
Police did, however, arrest one of the walking a belief that there are more effective ways to use their
members of the contingent, Tom Wilson, and promotion budget than exhibiting at ABA. —CS
January/February 1996 10
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:27:01 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
independent bookstores $4 million annually.
Houghton Mifflin will also make a $275,000 cash pay-
ment to ABA for its share of the suits legal costs.
Houghton Mifflin’s new policies are effective January
Houghton Mifflin and Penguin have both 1,1996.
reached agreements with ABA regarding ABA's 18- Two weeks later Penguin agreed to revise its dis-
month-old price discrimination lawsuit against five count schedule and co-op policy and to comply with
publishers. A third publisher, Hugh Lauter Levin, set- the same set of rules outlined in the Houghton Mifflin
tled with ABA last year. The suit charges that these settlement.
publishers give illegal and preférential price breaks
and other financial benefits to large chain bookstores, Penguin's new terms (effective January 1) include
price-club and warehouse type stores as well as book a flat 46% discount to all retailers on orders of 19+
clubs, gift shops, gourmet stores, etc., which give these assorted books (with freight paid by Penguin), the
stores a significant, unfair, and illegal financial advan- availability of an additional 2% retail distribution cen-
tage over independent bookstores. ter discount for carton quantities of 100+ books
supplied to more than one store, and a non-returnable
Houghton Mifflin has agreed: discount option available to all interested retail
° to offer a flat 47% discount to all retailers for 15+ accounts. Penguin's revised co-op plan features a 2%
assorted copies. An additional non-returnable dis- co-op allowance on direct and indirect purchases of
count will be available to all accounts that elect to trade books (1.5% on mass market) with the ability to
utilize this option for a one-year period. combine earning pools for the company’s various
(Previous policy was 41% for 15 books, with 47% imprints. Penguin will also reimburse ABA $450,000
kicking in at 2,000 books.) for a portion of legal expenses. In-store placement
° to simplify its customer classification to four cate- display allowances will also be available to all retailers
gories only: retailers, wholesalers, libraries and with preapproval and documentation of performance.
end-users. Current distinctions between trade Penguin has stated that the settlement of the suit
and non-trade customers will cease. did not mean that Penguin would automatically
° to make a 2% “warehouse discount” option (for return to exhibiting at the ABA Convention.
carton quantities shipped to a single destination) Houghton Mifflin and Penguin both admitted no
available to all retailers. wrong-doing.
° to make both co-op and book display funds avail-
able to all bookstores (on both direct and indirect Earlier this fall Magistrate Judge Katz, who is
purchases) on a proportional basis. handling the discover phase of the suit, ordered
° to apply the same credit terms (and penalties for Barnes & Noble to provide internal documents to the
late payment) to all book retailers. plaintiffs regarding its past and present pricing and
Houghton Mifflin also agreed to calculate sepa- promotional allowance arrangements with the pub-
rate co-op ad allowances for retail accounts operating lishers being sued. B&N had resisted making those
in more than one media area and to appoint, jointly disclosures.
with ABA, an expert mediator to resolve any future The suit is still in the discovery phase and contin-
disputes. ues against St. Martin’s Press and Rutledge Hill Press,
These agreements are spelled out in an 18-point although there is hope that they will also settle and
“plain-language” set of “rules” for avoiding price avoid the necessity for continuing with the costly
discrimination and promotional allowance discrimi- procedure. ABA, presumably, will now turn some of
nation. These rules define “book retailer” to include its attention to the terms of other large publishers
virtually every kind of business with which booksell- currently the subjects of the long-running Federal
erbs cuomspeiten, ineclsudsinge cslu.bs an|d mail order Trade Commission investigation.
—lInformation from Publishers Weekly and Book-
It is estimated that these changes will save selling This Week
11 January/February 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:27:01 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
and we have completely paid off publication costs
through Issue 55. The Collective views this as a
temporary problem, but one that will delay the publi-
cation of Issue 56. We are committed to resuming our
As one feminist bookseller put it, “Some publish- regular publication schedule as soon as possible. Our
ers and some of the journals lost their shirts. And a lot present goal is to combine Issues 56/57 and to be back
of stores were floundering this fall, trying to get books on schedule with the winter issue.”
that are no longer available from Inland and aren’t at Donations, gift subscriptions, patience, and notes
Koen. InBook’s computer crashed [as did Pacific of encouragement are among Common Lives’ and oob’s
Pipeline’s] and was down during one of the most suggestions.
essential pre-Christmas restocking periods.” [Both Evergreen Chronicles has suspended publication
companies are reported to have loaded new software until March of 1996. “The primary [reason] being that
during the pre-Christmas season.] our main distributor has declared bankruptcy while
FBN’s experience has been that many publish- owing us a great deal of money.... [W]e have needed
ers are hesitant to publicly discuss their losses from to take some extra months to gather the lost money
the Inland bankruptcy and the effect those losses from other sources..."
will have on their future operations, a situation that Rumor also has it that some feminist (book) pub-
leads to a rather large collective silence about the lisshecrs h aree cudttinug lbaeck s on. th ei=r p-ubClicatSion
impact of Inland’s bankruptcy on feminist publish-
ing at large.
Periodicals, perhaps reflecting the difference
between book publishing and magazine publishing,
have been a bit more forthcoming about their plight,
with off our backs, Common Lives/Lesbian Lives and
Evergreen Chronicles having sent out letters to subscribers Citing mounting debt and lack of income from
describing the situation. sales, Carolyn Weathers and Jenny Wren have decided
oob writes, “off our backs is facing a financial crisis to dissolve Clothespin Fever Press.
and we are writing to ask you for help. Our largest Clothespin Fever is no longer doing fulfillment
distributor recently went bankrupt owing us $8,000. but many of their titles, including Love Me like You
With our small budget, this really hurts. Therefore, to Mean It, will continue to be available from the distrib-
tide us over this difficult time we are asking for utors, Bookpeople, Alamo Square, Pacific Pipeline,
donations...” and Inland. Loss of the Ground-Note by Helen Vozenilek
Common Lives writes, “Usually, about this time, is available from Bookpeople and Inland.
you would be receiving your fall issue of Common On-hand stock of some titles (Black Slip by Terry
Lives, loaded with great prose and poetry for your Wolverton, Are You Two Girls Traveling Alone by
reading pleasure. Well, she’s going to be a little Marilyn Murphy) are being sold to the authors and
delayed in arriving and we need to explain whats will be available directly from the authors or their
been happening to cause this delay. agents. Remaining copies of I'm Your Daughter Not
“Inland Books, our largest distributor, has filed Your Lover by Marie Cartier have been sold to Marie
for chapter 11 bankruptcy. They had been haphazard Cartier and to John Dunne of the Dialogus in Dallas.
in their payments for some time, but when they filed FBN will carry information on other titles as we
this summer, they owed us almost $5,000. receive it.
“Since August we've been trying to recover from
this loss of revenue, and we are making good progress,
but slowly. We have contacted the individual book-
stores formerly serviced by Inland in an effort to keep
as many of them as possible carrying the magazine.
We have explored various fundraising possibilities
January/February 1996 12
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:27:01 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsBy Carol Seajay sent to women’s studies faculty at virtually every
school in Boston from two-year schools to Harvard. I
Women and Children First just set a new record think this represents a real expansion in consciousness
(in their very impressive series of records) for their from “the support your local bookstore so you still
“biggest event ever” — it was a reading /booksigning have one” concept to “Do this wonderful thing for
with Amy Tan for The Hundred Secret Senses. In addition yourself; taking care of yourself includes taking care of
to packing the store, W&C sold 325 copies of the $25 your local women’s bookstore." New Words is also
hardcover, including 150 advance orders from getting an 800 number, has a new e-mail address (new-
customers who saw — and responded to — the line in words@world.std.com), and is going up on the web.
W&C’s ad encouraging women who couldn'tmake the
reading to call ahead to reserve a signed copy (and, of e
course, pay via charge card to guarantee the sale). The X
rep had to scramble all over Chicago to find enough
books to fill the demand. (And I bet I know what Crazy Ladies Bookstore/Women’s Building
women all over Chicago got for Christmas this year!) recently sent out a great letter describing (of course)
Fundraising oth f e i “r d ifco fn ict ur li tb u ct oio mn ps e tt io t io t nh e fir r o mco m nm atu in onit ay l , c hth aie n c bh oal ol ken -ges
The Book Garden is pioneering a new kind of stores,” some of their success in increasing their
membership program that offers additional services visibility, and launching a capital improvement cam-
rather than discounts and is based on getting mem- paign. Crazy Ladies is also running a change-drive
bers to host Book Garden parties and/or to promote called -A Million Pennies to update their computer,
(OK, “sell”) memberships to their friends in kind of a add shelving and finance a paint job. These two ap-
support-your-local-bookstore pyramid scheme. proaches cover both the high-end check-writer types
Membership benefits (depending on category) and the cash-out-of-pocket types providing support-
include such things as free postage for mail orders, program access to a diverse community.... .
members-only nights and events with craftswomen, Herland (Santa Cruz) will be holding their Third
singles-mingles, free subscriptions to the newsletter, Annual Lesbian New Year's Ball (and fundraiser) as this
access to a special members-only events line (that issue goes to print. It's getting to be quite the California
features a “book of the week” quick rave. The promo- thing. To keep the focus on local women, Herland pro-
tion packet that is the foundation for the membership motes the event locally and quietly before the promo
drive is gorgeous. hits the media. Tickets are on a sliding scale from $65 to
New Words reports an excellent response to their $85 with special reserved seating starting at $85.
fundraising letter, in terms of both cash and other kinds
of support — including a letter from prominent mem- Newsletters
bers of the Boston women’s studies community Two Sisters ran a quote in a recent newsletter that
encouraging women’s studies folk to support New just about said it all: “If you want to know what you
Words by buying themselves a $200 gift certificate (Sup- value, look at where you spend your money.” That’s
port yourself/support your bookstore). The letter was from Elaine Blake (Mulberry Company — and FBN
13 January/February 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:27:01 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFull Circle just finished celebrating her 22nd Happy Birthday to Full Circle Books and
birthday. We had a sale, with significant discounts All Those Who Keep It Open!!
on Saturday and Sunday, November 18 and 19. For It seems like another lifetime when the
goodies there was carrot cake (back by popular responsibility and the pleasures of running Full
demand) on Saturday, with Chocolate Madness Circle were mine. But I remember my search for a
cake on Sunday. Hugs all around all day. CDs, new home when it was time to leave the San
t-shirts and calendars were all 25% off; everything Francisco Bay Area. I thought Santa Fe, home of
in the store was at least 10% off. We also had addi- mountains and turquoise skies, would be ideal, so
tional discounts on some jewelry and sidelines. I wrote to Kate Arnold [then-owner of Full Circle,
Q and yes, daughter of June] broaching the idea. She
invited me to visit her store in Albuquerque,
where she advised me against trying to open a
Our new tote bags were one of the biggest hits feminist bookstore in Santa Fe, but told me she
of the event. They're from Envirotote, heavy duty, was interested in either hiring a manager or sell-
with our newly updated logo in bright purple on ing Full Circle Books, which was then just a small
one side and the Feminist Bookstore Week logo on store sharing space with the Framery.
the other. We gave them away to customers spend- I spent almost a week in Boulder considering
ing over $100. purchasing a women’s bookstore for sale there,
loving the scenery and the university, but finding
the demographics a bit too uniform and white. It
took only two days in Albuquerque to convince
We advertised the event in our newsletter, had me to move to wonderfully multi-ethnic, sunny,
fliers in the store and a huge, vibrant window dry New Mexico.
display. We had our biggest sales day ever on And thus my destiny was set for the next
Saturday and did close to that on Sunday. Sales seven years. Much of my self-identity was the
were so good that we figure that, even with the bookstore, and I loved it: the excitement of open-
ing presents all the time, the reward of being able
to find just the right books for someone, the fun
discounts, we did well. P of reading all the latest mysteries, science fiction
and lesbian stuff, the feeling of competence in
.The local daily paper, The Albuquerque Journal, running my own business. There are still times
ran an article about us and the event the Sunday when I wish I was doing it again, but most of the
before. We sent out a number of press releases time I am so very glad that I found the right
explaining that we are one of the older and larger couple to relieve me of the worries and pressure
feminist bookstores in the U.S., how amazing that and to carry on and expand the traditions of the
is for a small state like New Mexico, and how store.
important small independent bookstores are for I am very proud to have been an early part of
our community. The Journal, as far as we can tell, what may be the very best feminist bookstore in
was the only paper to pick up on it. We, however, the whole country, and I admire your persever-
did a lot of proselytizing during the event — raving ance and devotion to the cause. Thank you for
about feminist bookstores in general and Full allowing Full Circle Books to celebrate yet another
Circle in particular. —Dorothy Holland birthday. — Paula Wallace
14
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:27:01 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
proofreader extraordinaire). Someone should turn (very considerately) write “lesbian erotica” on the
that into a pretty, broadside that could be posted in memo line of the guy’s check so that he (or his wife, if
every women’s bookstore in the land.(We also saw it she balances the checkbook) will know how to catego-
in Herland’s newsletter. It’s a concept that’s going to rize his expenses. |
circulate!)
How to reach twice as many customers for only
two-thirds the printing bill and two-thirds the post-
age, cut your mailings by two-thirds, reduce the time
it takes to produce it and give your customers a bigger Film Night
newsletter? The geniuses at Hetland have figured it The Crazy Ladies Center was packed for a show-
out: shift from a monthly to a quarterly newsletter. ing of six short films by American and Canadian
The new version will be twice as big (8 pages) and will women. (If they want video, show them video in the
double in circulation (from 1500 copies to 3000) and store, but send them home with books under their
will include more book reviews, gift ideas, events, and arms!)
a bigger community calendar ($5 for 5 lines) and
reduce their overall newsletter expense in the process. Drips and Rip-offs
Your Full Service Bookstore... It was a hard fall at the Vancouver Women’s
Bookstore. The man who rents the apartment above
Kitty Corbett (Book Garden) has invented a “new the bookstore forgot that he'd started running a bath
layer of service” (in keeping with the Book Garden’s and went out for a beer.... You can imagine the rest.
“Your full-service bookstore” motto) and a new strat- Surprisingly few books were destroyed given the sit-
egy for dealing with the “heavy-breathers” in the uation. But before they were fully recovered, someone
lesbian erotica section: She just takes a moment to See Bookstore News, page 110..
Last week was our 21st birthday and we began Racism in the Lesbian/Gay/Bisexual Communi-
our celebration on Thursday, November 2, with ties, put together by our co-worker BJ, and
bell hooks. We had a special “tea and conversation” sponsored by approximately 20 organizations. The
event from 4-6 pm for 20 people (who paid $50, $75, first was so successful that Southern Voice featured
or $100 to attend). Beautiful food in a friend’s ele- BJ and an article on it on the front page this week.
gant home, 30 minutes of schmoozing, followed by Next week Gloria Steinem returns. She will
a discussion bell led on many topics, especially also do a “tea and conversation” Friday from 4-6 pm
racism/sexism and the Million Man March. Fasci-
nating and exhilarating — not what most of us take agreed to do the tea only if all the money would
enough time for in our lives, but we should. benefit Charis and if Charis was 100% woman-
That night bell did a lecture on her new book. owned. (Yes, and yes.) We couldn't charge for the
We squeezed 250 folks into a local church, at $10 evening lecture but we will ask for donations. And
per person. Quite exciting, and a good fundraiser we have already given out 250 “tickets” — how will
for our building fund. we squeeze everyone else into the church??
We continued our birthday celebration with Zami (the African American lesbian group) is
food, flowers, fun, and a 10%-off-everything sale doing two showings of the new Audre Lorde film,
Friday night and Saturday. Litany of Survival, here this month, too. We're co-
We also did a big display on the Feminist sponsoring it and are very excited.
Press’ 25th birthday as part of our birthday — it And then just the regular holiday season
was fun to have the bags and promos to give out. hoopla! We're energized and ready — and need a
Tonight is our second community meeting on great season... —Sherry Emory
15 January/February 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:27:01 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
AUNT LUTE BOOKS
Frontline Feminism 1975-1995:
Essays from Sojourner’s First 20 Years
Edited by Karen Kahn
Foreword by Robin Morgan
Sojourner: The Women’s Forum
Celebrating is one of the oldest and largest
women’s newspapers in the
country. In celebration of its
twentieth anniversary, Sojourner
Women’s presents here essays from its
history in the forefront of feminism.
CONTRIBUTORS INCLUDE Margorie
Agosín, Charlotte Bunch, Angela
Davis, Ruth Hubbard, Audre Lorde,
Barbara Macdonald, Kate Millet,
Margaret Randall, Cindy Patton,
Ann Russo and Evelyn C. White.
$17.95 Trade Paperback
6x9 512pp 1-879960-42-7
LLA A GRAYWOLF REDISCOVERY
Places in the World a Woman Could Walk
a d e " 2 3 a d“ K1 aIAu fshformt satonri es t bayk Jeanse t uKasu ff mtahnrough
these stories with an intensity
that leaves us reeling.”—Ms.
Voices “The author's dual professions
of farmer and poet give the
stories two gifts: an intimate,
gritty sense of life on the
land and a skill with language
that amounts to alchemy.”
—Anne Tyler
$12.00 Trade Paperback
572 x 8⁄2 175pp 1-55597-233-0
Distributed by Consortium Book Sales & Distribution 800 283 3572
January/February 1996 16 Volume 18 Number 5
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:27:01 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
By Beth Morgan communication among women. The group has become
one of the best-known and most effective social organi-
Last winter, while attending a reading in Berkeley, zations in Taiwan.
Carol overheard a woman telling the author she had worked
at Fem Books, a feminist bookstore in Taiwan. Carol turned Getting Started
around and met Nai Fei Ding, who was later able to arrange Members of Awakening had been talking for
a meeting at FBN with her co-worker Chien-Ling Su. Beth quite a while about opening a women’s bookstore and
Morgan reports: two years ago they finally decided to take action! It
took a lot of meetings and endless amounts of hard
Taiwan's Awakening Foundation began
in 1982 by publishing the magazine, Awaken- =-
ing, at a time when such foundations were R
banned under martial law. Awakening
appeared monthly and covered gender
inequality, the role of women in society and
other women’s concerns. After martial law
was lifted in 1987, the organization became &
much more active. Today they organize
lectures and exhibitions, rallies, press confer- |;
ences and training programs designed to
promote women’s rights, publish books and i
spin off bookstores! FBN readers may remem- ..…………
ber reading about Awakening’s publishing |”
program in a 1993 article (Vol. 16 #4) that
described Awakening’s pioneering efforts in
preserving and translating nu shu, an elegant ke 4#
and graceful written language developed by
women in Hunan as a private, written
January/February 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:27:01 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
work, but the store finally opened on April 17, 1994. response from women has been very exciting —
More than twenty women came together and donated they've received much more support than they ever
the money to make Fem Books happen, raising expected they would. Su says that women sense the
enough to cover the first three years’ expenses so that friendliness in the space and love being able to find the
they would have plenty of time to build a profit- books that they want.
making enterprise. Fem Books does not yet support itself, but Su
AÀ core group of seven to eight women — most points out that that’s normal for a start-up store. Sales
of them members of Awakening — did the actual run between $10,000-$15,000 per month now, and
hands-on work of opening the store. Their first task when they bring sales up to $15,000-$20,000 per
was finding a suitable space that could hold both the month they will be breaking even. This year they will
store and the Awakening Foundation offices. They launch a publishing program and will take responsi-
found beautiful, spacious quarters on the second bility for Awakening’s book publishing program. Fem
floor of a building across from Taiwan National Uni- Books expects to make a better profit on these books
versity. The Awakening offices are in the back (along than they do on books from the big houses.
with a small kitchen), the bookstore occupies the The bookstore currently runs on two paid full-
midsection, and in the front is a woman-run coffee- time positions, plus lots of volunteer labor donated
house that can (and often does!) hold 30 or more by Awakening members, most of whom also have
women, especially in its role as meeting and lecture full-time jobs. One of the women working full-time
space for joint Awakening /bookstore programs in the bookstore used to work for Awakening. Su
(more on that below!). says it’s great to be able to offer feminist employ-
Su tells us that when they were still in the plan- ment opportunities to women, instead of their
ning stages, they knew it would be hard. But the having to work at corporate or food service jobs. Su
teaches composition and women’s studies at a pri-
vate women’s college and works Saturday and
Sunday afternoons in the store.
On the Shelves
(800) 634-6044 Eighty to 90% of the books stocked at Fem Books
are in Chinese, some of them published in Taiwan,
The Best Selection of some in Hong Kong and some in Mainland China.
However, bookstores are limited in buying and selling
International Music books from the Mainland — one copy only, for per-
sonal use — and often must acquire these books
by Women through Hong Kong bookstores. One way around this
problem is to get a Mainland author’s permission to
Arabic «& Middle Eastern & publish their book in Taiwan; then Fem Books is free
Celtic/British Isles & African & to publish and sell as many copies as they wish. (And
European & Jewish & Latin we think we have distribution problems!)
They also carry books in English from the U.S.,
American @& World & Native but they can only acquire them fairly haphazardly,
American @& Asian/Pacific since U.S. distributors don’t distribute in Taiwan. So
T
African Heritage they rely on friends who are traveling in the U.S. to
pick up the women’s presses books at women’s book-
stores. Su also ordered from Old Wives’ Tales (San
Francisco) and Sisterhood (L.A.). But since she has to
Nationally Distributing Music by Women for 20 Years buy these books at almost full price, they carry a
much steeper price tag once they’re on the shelves at
Fem Books.
January/February 1996 18
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:27:01 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Su met with distributors to set up procedures
for prepaying for orders via personal credit.
She spoke with the folks at Bookpeople, ask-
ing if she could use her personal credit to buy
books for the store. Bookpeople agreed
(bravo!), and Su can now order books in
Ebngloisho fkor sFetm o Borokes b y fdax i ast cstaonduardnt. :
Most of the English language books Fem [|
Books currently stocks are novels and femi-
nist theory. Feminists in Taiwan still rely
heavily on American books for feminist and
lesbian and gay [male] theory since these
subjects have been relatively taboo in Taiwan
until fairly recently. Su states that the pres-
ence of this theory in English has inspired
Taiwanese authors to begin to write theory
on these subjects.
Bestsellers at Fem Books include a history of the
women’s movement in Taiwan (written by founding orders titles published by Awakening. Fem Books
members of Awakening), feminist cultural criticism occasionally gets orders from women living in
from foremost feminist writers in Taiwan, periodicals Southeast Asia. Women’s bookstores exist in Japan
from various women’s groups, and lesbian journals! but not Korea.
Autobiographies also sell very well. While main-
stream bookstores sell autobiographies by male Financing the Women’s Movement in Taiwan
political figures, Fem Books sells autobiographies by Most of the people responsible for making Fem
ordinary women, which are very popular. They also Books happen are also involved in other work with
sell lots of books by and about women artists. Awakening. Thirty percent of the bookstore’s profits
Bestsellers from the U.S. include histories of (still in the future!) are slated to go to Awakening.
women’s movements in different places, theory, fic- Getting funding for women’s movement work in
tion, and the history of the lesbian and gay [men’s] Taiwan is virtually impossible. Awakening does
movement in the U.S. and other countries. It’s hard to fundraising twice a year, mostly directed to women
say what fiction titles sell best, since most of what and small businesses. It’s very difficult work and it
they've carried is what friends have brought back takes a lot of small contributions to add up to what
from the U.S., and these buyers, of course, buy what Awakening needs to continue their work. A small
they like or what their friends have recommended. group of women who give money to Awakening and
(For instance, someone gave Nai Fei a copy of Dorothy Fem Books meets every two months and talks about
Allison's Trash and now Fem Books stocks that title). how to keep the foundation and the store going.
Fem Books is also very interested in carrying more
titles by women writing in English who are not from
the U.S.. Awakening and Fem Books put on two lecture
About 10% of Fem Books’ business is mail order. series a year. One series focuses on a particular,
They publish lists of recommended books in their woman-oriented topic. The other is a monthly lec-
newsletter, so customers outside of Taipei can order ture series on Women Writers, in which authors talk
feminist books. Bookstores from Hong Kong regu- about their work and their experiences as women
larly order books from Fem Books, as does the writers. Recent topics for the first series have in-
Chinese-language bookstore in Los Angeles, which cluded women’s autobiography, women’s music,
19 January/February 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:27:01 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Publishing Projects
Although Awakening still has its own
monthly magazine, Fem Books has taken over
the publishing side of things. Their first book
will be Feminisms, which charts different kinds
of feminist theories and histories. Although
many people in Taiwan read English, there is
a great need for this kind of work in Chinese,
so that more women can achieve a thorough
understanding of the genesis and develop-
ment of feminist theory. Fem Books will also
publish some works in translation. They
recently bought translation rights for Jean
Baker Miller’s Towards a New Psychology of
Women, which was scheduled to come out in
September. In the planning stages is an anthol-
ogy of stories by a variety of women writers.
Fem Books’ goal is to publish seven or eight books per
year. Written Chinese is ideographic — each character
represents an idea or thing without expressing a par-
women’s bodies and women’s travel. This year’s ticular word or phrase — and the same characters are
focus is on different kinds of mothers. It will cele- used throughout much of Asia, so Fem Books’ titles
brate other forms of motherhood than the model will be readable by many women who don’t have a
mother still held up as the norm in Taiwan and common (verbal) language.
explore the question of how real women cope with
this image of the perfect mother. Each series, of Shaping the Mainstream Media
course, includes book displays at the store and read- Although Fem Books is a small store, it has had
ings by various women writers. an effect on Taiwan far out of proportion to its size. Su
In July of 1994, Awakening /Fem Books initiated says it has gotten to the point that whenever they
classes in which women scholars, professors, activists announce a topic, the mainstream Taipei papers begin
and lawyers were asked to discuss women’s issues on to follow that topic, too, like an echo.
a more theoretical, advanced level. The first summer For instance, beginning about three years ago,
20-30 women met weekly to discuss women writers many older women began to write their own stories
and women’s culture and literature. This summer 70 — beautiful, meaningful stories written to their
women enrolled and classes had to be moved to a daughters, talking honestly about marriage and moth-
larger space. erhood in a way that violates the image of the model
For activists, the classes offer a chance to partici- mother. Fem Books created a forum for these women
pate in theoretical debates and to take the information to talk about their books and their lives. After this, the
back to their particular working groups. The classes mainstream press asked those same women for inter-
also remind academics to ground their work in the views and began to treat their work seriously. Fem
actual experiences of women doing activist work, so Books has plans to publish books by some of these
that their theory can be useful on the street, where women. (Su adds that, although mainstream publica-
theory makes contact with practice. tions never credit Awakening, their reporters are
A recent series on women and the law gave actually sitting in on Awakening’s classes, taking
women lawyers an opportunity to think through fem- notes and outlining their stories!)
inist issues in a systematic way, to integrate feminist The same thing happened when Awakening/
theory into their practice of the law and to create new, Fem Books initiated their series on women’s bodies —
feminist approaches to the law. but of course, the mainstream papers took a more
January/February 1996 20
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:27:01 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
prurient stance on the topic. One reporter KBA EREA E
tape-recorded a -class and published the
transcript in the paper the next day. Fem
Books has talked to these reporters, but
the “next day” phenomenon continues in BEER
this country where the media is very hun-
gry for new and different ideas. A
mainstream publisher took a rough out-
line and published an anthology on the
theme with, once again, a slightly pruri-
ent bent. But the idea started in women’s
movement activism, and Su feels that as
long as Fem Books exists, it’s a place
women can come and talk among them-
selves, and the new and different ways to
talk about women’s bodies will survive
no matter what the mainstream press
does with the ideas.
The store has attracted a lot more
attention than Su ever expected — over
50 interviews last year! They didn’t spend
a cent in advertisement. Curiosity at this
stage is more than enough to advertise
the store. And the topics the store is cov-
ering interest the media. In fact, other
bookstores say they are the spoiled child
of the media! The store always feels very
full of energy and enthusiasm, which at-
tracts both women and the media.
Until the opening of Fem Books,
women’s groups in general and Awaken-
ing in particular didn’t get much press.
But the bookstore functions as a bridge
between activists and the media and is
very accepted by mainstream media.
Thus far, the bookstore hasn't received any
significant negative feedback. Their landlord is a very
traditional man, yet seems to be curious, and is very a list of their 30 bestsellers. They had only one book
honored and flattered that his property is on the news listed in common with the top 100 list from the main-
a lot. Even the flower shop underneath the store has stream stores, Which confirmed their feeling that their
expressed its approval by copying Fem Books’ design customer base is entirely separate from most of the
and colors! other bookstores in Taipei.
(The one book on both lists was a book on
The Competition women’s sexuality. The publisher — which usually
The effect of Fem Books on local book culture has publishes romances — celebrated by putting a band
been so strongly felt that even mainstream bookstores around the book advertising the fact that it was #1 on
are now trying to stock some women authors. Fem Books Top 30 List! The book is actually a very
On their first anniversary, Fem Books published feminist book that the author placed with the romance
21 January/February 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:27:01 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
publisher to ensure that it would reach a huge audi- and Love Magazine, produced by local lesbian groups,
ence. She also gives all the royalties to Awakening — sell very well. Women who belong to certain
U.S. $8,000 to date!) women’s groups have often been seen as “particular”
One “very upscale” bookstore stocks lesbian and and different, but now any woman can come to the
gay [men’s] magazines. It’s in a very expensive part of store and see this is not so; they can step into this
town and wants to be seen as trendsetting. Some space and feel comfortable.
members of Awakening work there and the store will It’s hard for some women (and men) to come into
probably be one of the few that will stock the books the store initially, but after that first scary visit, it
Fem Books publishes. seems to be okay. Fem Books keeps a notebook on a
desk for anyone to write their thoughts and opinions.
Women talk about their fears, their appreciation and
even their own problems. One woman, soon to be
married, wrote that after reading some things from
ZE the store, she decided that she needed to think very
seriously about the marriage, and maybe she
wouldn't get married after all.
Lesbian Spaces, Too
Although Fem Books wasn’t originally con- International Connections
ceived of as a lesbian space, it soon became a home Being the only women’s bookstore in Taiwan —
for lesbian activist groups, as well as for other and one of the very few feminist bookstores in all of
women’s groups. There has never before been a pub- Asia — Fem Books relies on FBN for connection, to
lic lesbian space in Taiwan, where lesbians can meet learn about other stores’ experiences and for the
and feel safe. encouragement that connection and support brings.
Su told us that Fem Books is the one place in Fem Books’ staff (and friends) use FBN’s list of femi-
Taiwan that straight women and lesbians (openly) nist bookstores to make contacts with other feminist
conKgregateR and leSsbian jou rnalAs such Eas IslEe Mar gin | boSoksel lers whAen theya tra vel. ©a
! Check all the boxes you can and mail to FBN, I am/We are: [H Owned and operated by !
ı PO Box 882554, San Francisco, CA 94188 [J Reader/Bibliophile women !
: ! [ 1] WNomaenm’s Setu di es[ HTeac h erL [1i] b Cor-oawnredi aannd ru na bny dwo m enm 1 en '
' : B u siAnessd Ndamre e Hs Wsr it er[ H[1 O wnBedo aondk ospeeratleld e bry m ein ! :
!t' G ; [ l [i HP u[OJ b l iCPsthecrehriro d aSiecefaAltr ssgwe s b laoalnshmo, asD tono ocs k : : :! !
N CYSS ZIP [H Feminist non-fiction :
$' ' P [hJo n o i G ole n[dJe r Graaly e imnnetn'es r tei stlte: s !i
! [J One Year - $70. Check enclosed. Bookstores, Publishers and : [H Leftist/political !
: [] One Year- $75. Bill us. T your focus primarily: E NNR :
! [J + $9 for Canadian postage. E Lesbian E] oiher :
: [] + $19 for other international postage. [] Lesbian & Gay !
1 n H cay [H Back issues available — $6 !
! 1/2 year - $35. [J Alternative/political each or $30/year. Check '
1 [1 Sample copy - $6. [J General independent enclosed. 1
L P PYS ri fks i Israd Hre CLS IDGS PNASD nte ae E SNOOT J
January/February 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:27:01 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
By Barbara Wilson More often, more importantly, novels and stories
Women in Translation translated from other languages read simply like what
they are: fine novels and stories by writers who have
It wasa rainy Monday evening in Seattle not long urgent and marvelous things to tell us.
ago and two women authors from Norway were at The charge is often made that North Americans
Elliott Bay Books to read from the new edition of An are parochial and geographically and culturally lim-
Everyday Story: Norwegian Women’s Fiction. We orga- ited in our reading (when we read at all). I don’t
nizers of the event stood around worriedly, entirely agree. Many of us in the U.S., and perhaps
wondering if anyone would venture out on this more so in Canada, read across a wide variety of
gloomy night to hear a couple of unknown writers cultures within our own countries. We read Southern
writers, Black writers, writers from South Dakota,
fthroerme awneorteh etrw ecnotuyn-tfriyv.e Bpye o ptlhee inti m teh e t haeu d ir-e a dpi n -g t zm Latina writers, Asian and Jewish writers,
ence, not all of them, fortunately, friends or __ writers from Winnipeg and writers from
relatives. We sat back, relieved, to listen, to | Brooklyn. Some of us are interested as
laugh at and to be moved by Sissel Lie’s | | well in writing in English from outside
and Laila Stien’s stories as well as by their | ____ _ our borders in the work of South African,
witty remarks and deft fielding of ques- | Israeli, Australian, English and Irish writ-
tions. Afterwards someone came up to me. ers. So I can't think that we are completely
“I had no idea that I would enjoy this so uninterested in cultures different than
much,” she said. “I just came because June | what we grew up with or live in. We are
made me. But this was fantastic!” | often passionately interested.
Since Women in Translation (WIT), Yet that interest wanes, frequently,
first as an imprint of Seal Press and then, when the author is not a native English
since 1989, as a separate publishing com- speaker and writer. When the author
pany, has published writers who are writes in a language that must be trans-
respected, beloved and even renowned in their own
countries, it’s not surprising that their work should to loom larger and the gulf between their world and
move and delight us. Yet it’s clear that bookstore ours seems unbridgeable. What are the reasons for
customers and library patrons will often shy away this? One important reason may be that all of us
from reading books from other countries. Such books have, probably more than once, read bad transla-
are often perceived to be too difficult or demanding. tions that are stilted, halting, peculiar in some way.
Occasionally (Hélène Cixious, perhaps) they are. Translations where idioms and colloquial sayings
23 January/February 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:27:01 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
are rendered literally and thus senselessly. Transla-
tions like the subtitles in bad foreign films, that leave
us howling with laughter (”I am killing you now.”
“No, halt, please!”).
Another important reason for not picking up the
work of foreign writers is that much of the work that
you and I as feminists might be interested in is simply
_ Sappho Is not available in translation. We may feel, as I did
growing up, that translation means Dostoevsky and
_ Burning Victor Hugo, Thomas Mann and Tolstoy — literary
_ PAGE DUBOIS male heavyweights. Nor does it help that most foreign
writers don’t live in North America and thus have no
“In a sequence of
wonderfully subtle easy way of publicizing their work through readings
readings, duBois and interviews. We may not remember, for instance,
explains how Sappho that we read Isabel Allende only in translation, be-
ob re c a ‘m ọte h e rth ’ e o f‘ s y lam tep rt o m m’ as- c sca eu nse e s hh ee r e .has such a vivid presence on the literary
culinist philosophy, Women in Translation came into being precisely
r_ h ep t l oih rni ies c,t , o r a by n ed, c a up n sh a ey t is o si hnca eal l disci- st tio rn ac na e sd l d a1 tr 9 ie o8s n4s s ,ha n a usd s u b ac e lo ler ynr e bc tt yo s c wo om om me m e nio s f s i t o rt n ah ne ss e le x a c t e ois l rls seu ,ne t s o . f l iO t wu err oa r r kg yoal
offered such clear aes- by women writers around the world. We have been
t th o e t ti hc, e e Ep ui rst oe cm eno tl ro ig ci c a nl o, t ia on nd s i td he ao tl o g Wic ea sl t e ral nt e r hn ua mti av nes ism p exar tet nic su ivla er ll yy ti rn at ne sr le as tt ee dd , i sn u c hla n ag su a Ng oes r w t eh ga iat n ,h a Kv oen re't a n been
has so long revered.”—Nancy Armstrong, a tn iod n s C a at ba ol uan t , w a on md e nin ’s w ror li et si .n g N ot th a t al l c h thal ele n ag ue ts h o p re s r c wep e-
Brown University
Cloth $24.95 224 pages publish have considered themselves feminist, but all
of them have written about the realities of women’s
lives, about childhood, love, abuse, coming out, work,
Playing the Other rebellion and power. We have published novels and
FG Ren Od Me Ar a |.n d Z E S IToc Li Ie Nty in Classical Greek Literature As et vno edr noi e r s pr ua f , b r l io S sm p ha e i d nE , g a y D p e nt n u, m m K a bro ekr r,e a , oN f o J ra mwp uaa yn rd, e a rS n w d me d H ye on stl, l e a rnG id ee s.r m W ina e n y ou, r
“These provocative essays on conceptions of the International Women’s Crime series, to show that
female in Greek myth, epic, and drama demon- women in other countries were using the thriller as a
strate the full range and force of Zeitlin’s meth- vehicle for asking social questions, just as was being
ods—drawn from the theory of myth, psychology, done in North America.
anthropology, and literary theory—and offer We've selected the titles for Women in Translation
strikingly original interpretations of the texts.” in a variety of ways, and each selection has a story.
—Helene Foley, Barnard College Sometimes books come to us unexpectedly, for in-
Paper $19.95 496 pages Cloth edition available stance, I was strolling by the combined Catalan stand
Women in Culture and Society series at the Frankfurt Book Fair some years ago and saw a
book titled Study in Lilac. The violet-tinted cover with
its figure of a woman caught my eye. It turned out to
THE UNIVERSITY OF be a quirky mystery with a tough feminist P.I. that Seal
published in 1987. Another Swedish author, Elisabet
Peterzen, thrust her self-published mystery, The Last
Draw, into my hands at the Oslo Feminist Book Fair.
January/February 1996 24
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:27:01 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
And the moving autobiography of Danish poet and Known in North America for her biting satire on the
writer Tove Ditlevsen came to us because I happened sexes, Egalia's Daughters, Brantenberg is justly famous
to leave a potluck at the same time as another woman in her own country as the author of a trilogy about
and asked her, “What kind of work do you do?” “I've growing up with alcoholic parents in a small town in
just tried my first translation,” said Tiina Nunnally Norway. The Four Winds tells the moving and often
(who later went on to translate Peter Hoeg’s Smila’s hilarious story of a girl coming out as a lesbian and
fSe avn ose r i to ef S S ean lo w P) r. e sE sa r tly it l eS sp .ring still remains one of my c uo em s i tn og bt eo ot ner e m os f w ti ht eh oh ne lr y f oa um t i l ly e. s b B iar na -n ft ee mnb ine ir sg t c ao un thti on r- s
Although Women in Translation has in Scandinavia.
received many foreign books in the mail In the spring WIT will be publishing
over the years, most of our titles have come The Cockatoo’s Lie, an absorbing puzzle of a
to us on the suggestion of a translator who novel by Dutch-Indonesian writer Marion
knows the literature of a particular country Bloem. Bloem writes frankly about sex,
and who is willing to put together an race and family secrets in this story of three
author’s biography, a synopsis and a sam- generations of women in Java and The
ple translation. The translators take their Netherlands. And in the fall WIT will be
vocation seriously and are skilled authors bringing out a second collection of Korean
in their own right. Translators such as women’s writing edited and translated by
Katherine Hanson (from Norwegian), Ju-Chan and Bruce Fulton.
Wanda Boeke (from Dutch), Yukiko Tan- Their previous volume,
aka (from Japanese), and Ju-chan and | Words of Farewell, published
Bruce Fulton (from Korean) have proved DEET TECEN by Seal Press, was a truly
valuable friends to WIT, not only translating important stunning anthology and this
books for us, but helping to secure grants and funding. promises to be just as unusual
Through working with these fine translators, we've and evocative.
learned something important: that the power of a liter- Since its inception,
ary work is commensurate with the skill of a translator Women in Translation has
in turning the language into English. tried to balance the work of
In order to recognize and reward the dedication contemporary writers with
of the translations, WIT has instituted a Translators’ those from the past. We have
Fund for the past several years. This fund is specific- focused on fiction, believing
ally for the purpose of paying translators a reasonable it more accessible to more
fee for their work. Although some of the world’s readers. We have tried to choose work that is powerful
wealthier countries have programs to subsidize the and that, in spite of cultural differences, can speak to
costs of translation, most do not, and no country sub- us with clarity and beauty. Obviously, some transla-
sidizes an entire translation. The Translators’ Fund tions have more cross-over potential than others and
has enabled us to take on projects that are literary, some authors, such as Nawal el-Saadawi, who now
innovative and often very feminist (like the riveting lives in the States and has a strong presence here, are
novel about a neglected girl growing up with an ab- more able to capture an audience than others. Yet
sent mother and an eccentric and disturbing father, we've based the work we do on the belief that readers,
Unnatural Mothers, by Dutch author Renate Dorrstein)
— books that don’t always find publishers in North by the worlds that open up through their books. It’s
America. (Tax-deductible contributions are always the aim of Women in Translation to continue to keep
welcome, and may be sent to WIT at 3131 Western introducing new writers and making their work
Avenue # 410, Seattle WA 98121). accessible to a wider public.
Currently WIT publishes one to two works of
fiction a year. Upcoming projects include the release in Barb ara WilTson isr the a Prensident s of lthea Boatrd oif oWomner . O
of The Four Winds, a novel by Gerd Brantenberg. Well-
Volume 18 Number 5 January/February 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:27:01 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
| THE ANGEL AND THE SUFFRAGE AND BEYOND
PERVERTS International Feminist
Lucie Delarue-Mardrus Perspectives
Translated by Anna Livia Mela nE id ei t Ded o l ab ny Caroline Daley and
Se t a r ii sn i nth e t h l ee s b 1i 9a 2n 0 s ,a n Td h eg a y A n gci er lc l ae ns d o f the This political history of suffrage on a
P wer hv oe r lt is v e st e l al s d t oh ue b l es t o lir fy e o asf Ma a rh ie or nm /Map ah rr ioo ,dite g Cscl ao h rb o oa l lal e r ss P c aa a tl s ee m Nb aar nni .n cg ys Ct oo tg te ,t h Ee lr le ns u c Dh u b oem is,i n ae nn dt
passing undetected as a lesbian in the lit- 380 pp. / 10 illustrations
rary salons of the times, and as a gay 0-8147-1871-X / $19.95 paper
man in the cocaine dens made famous
by Colette. HEAVENLY SEX
The Cutting Edge: Lesbian Life and Literature Series Sexuality in the Jewish Tradition
184 pp. / 0-8147-5098-2 / $14.95 paper Dr. Ruth K. Westheimer and
BISEXUALITY AND THE CHALLENGE TO Jonathan Mark
7 LESBIAN POLITICS In this light-hearted, lively tour of sexuali-
S Pe ax u, l a L o Cy . a l Rty us, t and Revolution t auy t h w orit sh i en x a mJe iw neis h h or we ,l ig ci oo nn t ra an rd y c tu ol t u pr oe p, u lat rhe
wisdom, the Jewish tradition is much
D ar e da x dw u rai en l s g s ea n so d n a l h e rse abr ni ga n er e s owe fa o r m c qh ue n e s,o t f iP o nao u sv le a p r eC r4 . t 0 a 0 R in u ib s nti g- om 1n 9eo 5 r m e ig ph ptp . r t ho /ig n kr .e 0s -s 8i 1v 4e 7 -i 9n 2 6 8m -5an y / r $e 2g 2a .9r 5d s c lt oh ta hn De Ruuth K, Festhej,
to the political and social relationships
between lesbians and bisexual women. MOVING BEYOND BOUNDARIES
The Cutting Edge: Lesbian Life and Volume One
3 Literature Series International Dimensions of Black Women’s Writing
340 pp. / 0-8147-7445-8 / $17.95 paper Edited by Carole Boyce-Davies and
HETEROSEXUAL PLOTS AND LESBIAN ‘Mọlara Ogundipẹ-Leslie
NARRATIVES Volume Two
Marilyn R. Farwell B Edla ic tk ed W bo ym e Cn a’ rs o leD i a Bs op yor ca es -Davies
M lemar ail ty icn isF sa ur ew s e l al t h te hr ee ia nd td er re ss es ce ts i o nso m oe f o lif t e rt ah te u r m e, o s st e x p , r o gb en- der, Contains creative and critical works by black women
T 2an 5h 0d e pCp po u .s t t t m /in o g 0d -e 8Er 1dn 4gi 7s em -: 2 . 6L 4e 0s -b 2i a n / L $i 1f 7e . 9 5a n d p a pL ei rterature Series f V VAr o omo l lu um e m mr i c e ea a r ,o O T u wnAn e ofd r /i /ct ah , 2 3e 5 3 2E 3g u l r po pob p ppe . . e , , / / i n a n 0c 0-dl -u 8 8 1d 1N 4i 4n 7 7og -r -1 1t 2 2ht 3 4 h 8 0 e -A - X 1 m C ea //rr ir c $i $ab 11.b 88e .. 99a 55n , pp L aa ppat eei rrn
F IM mroO em ldD a E t R h WeN h eS le ecF ho aE n ndM I WN aI vS eT to T “H PO osU t-FG eH mT inism” “ IMW PE O SS SP IBEC LEIA ”LIZE IN THE WHOLLY
T p trh r eoi ns v di d sin e st i r n o a d fu c ec r mt ii t io i ncn ia sl m t o a n sdA in n cpg eal no 1- oA 9r 6am 8m .e ir ci c a sn u r vf ee ym in ofis t d ot mho inug anh tt A aE nd diR t e e Lda i d n e b dr y a i n RD a e r eB dlela nc ek CW lao rm k e n H’ is n eH , i s Wto ir lmy a King,
288 pp. / 0-8147-9300-2 / $17.95 paper Contains over 30 crucial essays by the most ui ftiential
and prominent scholars in the field, including Evelyn
POWER IN STRUGGLE Brooks Higginbotham, Linda Gordon, and Nell Irvin Painter.
Feminism, Sexuality and the State 617 pp. / 19 photographs / 0-926019-81-3 / $24.95 paper
Davina Cooper Distributed for Carlson Publishing
Explores the relationship between power, sexuality, and m New York University Press
t th he e s es t cat oe n c ea pn td s u al nt dim a tt he el iy r p inr to ev ri ad ce ts i o na s .radical re-thinking of 70 W Nas eh win g Yt oo rn k , S q Nu Yar e 1 0S 0o 1u 2th
192 pp. / 0-8147-1527-3 / $17.95 paper
26 Volume 18 Number 5
January/February 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:27:01 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsBy Carol Seajay The introduction offers one of the best analyses
of the various human rights organizations’ and
It is with enormous respect that I greet the strategies’ inadequacies when it comes to address-
publication of Unspoken Rules: Sexual Orientation ing lesbian rights that I've ever read. It begins:
and Women’s Human Rights, edited by Rachel —lIn an apartment in India, two women commit
Rosenbloom and the International Gay and Lesbian suicide rather than allow their relationship with one
Human Rights Commission, a collection of reports another to be broken up by their families.
from 31 countries that describe lesbians’ lives and —fIn a house in Zimbabwe, a woman is raped repeat-
conditions in which lesbians live (and sometimes edly with the knowledge and consent of her family so that
die) in 31 countries. she will become pregnant, get married, and cease to have
The project was initiated by the IGLHRC in relationships with women.
partnership with regional coordinators in Africa, —fIn a psychiatric institution in the United States,
Asia and the Pacific, Western Europe, Eastern a teenage girl is subjected to coercive “treatment” to
Europe, Latin American and the Caribbean, and “cure” her of her lesbianism.
North America. These regional coordinators lo- —lIn a courtroom in Germany, a woman loses
cated authors from each of the countries custody of her child because the court finds that her
represented in the book. All but one of the reports lesbianism disqualifies her as a parent.
were written by lesbians who were raised in the —lIn a prison in Uruguay, a woman is isolated in a
countries in question. All but one of the reports cell because her captors know that she is a lesbian.
(Iran) were written by women currently living in —lIn an office in the Philippines, two women are
those countries. (The Iranian has since been granted fired from their jobs at a human rights organization
asylum in the U.S. because she faces the possibility because they are in a relationship with one another.
of execution in her native country as a lesbian and “Every day, all over the world, women face vio-
an outspoken feminist. See FBN Vol.18#4, page 10.) lence, harassment, and discrimination because they
The stories are awesome. Some are outra- reject socially imposed gender roles and because they
geously inspiring. Some are almost too difficult to have intimate relationships with other women...”
read. They come from as close as the U.S. and “Where the state has directly infringed upon
Canada, from as far as Zimbabwe and South Africa the rights of lesbians, these violations have received
from places as terrifying as Iran (where 70 lesbians international attention. However, the international
and gay men suspected of planning to start a community (and human rights movement) has
gay/lesbian organization are reported to have been remained silent where lesbians’ economic, social,
thrown off a cliff), as dismaying as Thailand and as and cultural rights — such as the right to health
denying of history carved in stone as India...and care, housing, and education — are at stake, and
from Serbia, Romania, Malaysia, Israel, Nicaragua, when abuses are perpetrated by private individu-
Uruguay, The Netherlands and Norway. Some als, particularly within the family. The human
(Estonia, for example) are unexpectedly encouraging. rights of lesbians cannot be meaningfully addressed
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:27:01 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
until these violations are taken into ment, respond to, or resist the abuses that lesbians
consideration.” experience...”
“Laws directly prohibiting lesbi- “Given the difficulty of addressing human rights
anism do exist. For example, in the violations against women using conventional human
Bahamas, the Sexual Offences and Do- rights frameworks, and the particular barriers that
mestic Violence Act of 1989 states that lesbians face in attempting to speak publicly about
“Any female who has sexual inter- abuses they have suffered, it is not surprising that a
course with another female, whether with or without the central theme in the reports is lesbian invisibility; in-
consent of that female, is guilty of the offence of lesbian- visibility within the law, within society; within the
ism and is liable to imprisonment for twenty years...” work of human rights organizations and women’s
“[But] the relative absence of legal prohibitions organizations. These reports demonstrate the ways
against lesbianism has led some to believe that lesbians that this invisibility is produced and maintained by
face less severe persecution than gay men.... One of the means of economic and social inequality, physical vi-
primary reasons that lesbians have not been subject to olence, religious condemnation, psychological
state persecution is that they are socially invisible. In coercion, and many other means.”
many places lesbians are not able to establish commu- „ “Many of the reports argue that this invisibility is
nities or participate in public life, and the denial of in itself a human rights violation; that we must stop
lesbian existence by governments and society is one of seeing silence as signifying an absence, but rather see it
the most profound harms that lesbians endure. As the as signifying the presence of a multitude of barriers.”
reports illustrate, these conditions allow society to take “Taken together, these reports suggest ways in
no responsibility for the lives of lesbians, and can serve which our understanding of...basic human rights
to make political action virtually impossible.” must be transformed if we are to begin to address
“The insights of the women’s human rights women’s right to control their own bodies and deter-
movement take on particular significance in consider- mine their own sexuality...”
ing human rights violations against lesbians. Not only “Unless human rights organizations and
do most violations of lesbians’ human rights (like women’s organizations recognize these issues as their
violations of women’s rights more generally) take own, they will continue to be complicit in the silence
place within the ”private” sphere, but the silence that that enables human rights violations against lesbians
surrounds lesbianism adds an additional layer of and other sexual minorities to occur.”
difficulty in documenting such violations. For exam-
ple, the barriers that keep women from reporting Unspoken Rules is an incredible document. It will
domestic violence or rape — shame, fear, lack of ap- change the way human rights organizations deal with
propriate services — are [now] well known. Those lesbians’ rights, but even more importantly, it will
barriers are even higher when reporting an incident change the way lesbians think about ourselves and
requires that a woman admit to the police or to the vapstly o explanid touri scense. of co:mmunity, identity, and
authorities that she is a lesbian.”
“Whether or not explicit prohibitions against I urge every feminist, gay, political, and indepen-
lesbianism exist in the law, women put themselves at dent bookstore to stock it and to promote it widely.
great risk —jeopardizing family relationships, friend-
ships, physical safety, employment, housing — if they Unspoken Rules: Sexual Orientation and
publicly acknowledge that they are lesbians. In addi- Women’s Human Rights was originally published in a
tion to the consequences that they may have to face, limited edition by the International Gay and Lesbian Human
lesbians must also contend with the self-doubt and Rights Commission for the United Nations’ Fourth World
shame that widespread prejudice engenders.” Conference on Women in Beijing. Cassell will publish a
“The rules may be unwritten — or even unspoken slightly revised edition for bookstores and libraries that will
— but they are very real, and the official silence sur- be available in March, though the official publication date is
rounding lesbianism does not make the prohibition of May. $14.95 pb, 0-304-33764-1; $60 cl -33763-3. It will be
it any less powerful; it only makes it harder to docu- distributed in the U.S. by InBook/Login. O
January/February 1996 28
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:27:01 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
By Urvashi Butalia and Ritu Menon blame for the late development of publishing in south-
ern countries on colonialism. But itis important, when
Excerpted from Making a Difference: Feminist looking at publishing in the South, to take into account
Publishing in the South, Bellagio Studies in Publishing the very real impact that colonialism had on it. In the
Number 5. early and mid-1970s, a number of universities all over
Introduction: The Third World Context the Third World still had a large number of expatriate
staff: local people came into the academy in large
Feminist publishing in the Third World has fol- numbers somewhat later. And often it was their entry,
lowed a somewhat different trajectory from its especially that of women, which brought women’s
counterpart in the West. Many countries in this part of studies courses into being.
the world have come to publishing relatively recently, For reasons of history, economics, and politics,
and to indigenous publishing even more recently. many Third World countries have also been lacking in
Partly this has to do with colonization and empire: in the material resources neces-
erstwhile colonial countries part of the project of colo- sary to set up publishing units.
nialism was to destroy or displace indigenous systems Few produce enough paper to
of knowledge, and to put new ones in their place. One meet the needs of the publish-
of the consequences of this was the marginalization of ing industry. While the actual
oral cultures and the gradual turning towards print. raw materials may exist, the infrastructure of produc-
As a first step here languages which did not have an tion, factories, and machinery are lacking. Nor are
orthography had to be ‘given’ one, again something such countries able to purchase this equipment from
that was often undertaken by the colonizers. Once outside — more often than not, the exchange rates are
introduced, however, publishing and books became unfavorable. Sometimes restrictive import policies do
major instruments in the educational process, a devel- not allow easy import of paper.
opment that was not entirely without problems. The In several Third World countries while books are
first of these was to develop indigenous authors, still among the most widely used of media, high rates
something which cannot be done overnight, and of illiteracy make it difficult for publishing to survive.
something which is doubly difficult to do without Shortages of money, and what are universally seen as
adequate resources. For some considerable time, more urgent needs such as food, water, shelter, are also
books had to continue to be imported. Not only was things to contend with. If people do not have a roof over
this expensive, but it also continued the process of the their heads, how can you convince them to spend scarce
colonization of knowledge begun by the colonizers. resources on buying books? Several parts of the Third
It is not our intention to simplistically put the World have also — for many years and for a variety of
29 January/February 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:27:01 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
reasons, many of which are not there must be writers and readers. Because of their
of their own making — been in histories of colonization many Third World countries
the grip of politically volatile have been at the receiving end of knowledge and
and repressive situations. The information about themselves from the West or the
fundamentalist backlash North. It is not uncommon to find, in say Africa or
sweeping through much of the Asia, numbers of Western scholars who have access to
Muslim world has made it diffi- both funds and opportunities for publication and who
cult for independent publishers come and do research for short or long periods and
to survive. For women’s voices then produce the definitive book on a specific subject.
to be heard in such an environ- With women’s books this follows a somewhat differ-
NO UR ment is well nigh impossible. In ent pattern: because of the solidarity built up by
countries such as Algeria the first people to have been women’s movements internationally, groups in the
the targets of attack have been intellectuals and writers Third World are often more open to scholars from
— the wide swath of killings and executions has not other countries than might be the case normally. In the
spared women. In Bangladesh, the now well-known process they lose control of their own histories, only to
writer Talsima Nasreen has had to flee the country for have them reproduced by ‘outsiders’. Published ex-
having spoken out. Nor has the backlash been limited pensively in the North, such books often have to be
to the Muslim world. In India it is becoming increasing purchased by Third World groups and individuals
difficult to counter the fundamentalism of the majority simply because local material is so scarce. Addition-
community. In Mauritius, writer Lindsey Collen has ally, because they are produced wel], and because they
had to face the wrath of the Hindu community for her are imported, they often carry a legitimacy and impor-
novel The Rape of Sita, which was published in 1993 and tance that many ‘foreign’ articles do in Third World
banned within three days of its publication. countries. Would-be feminist publishers have had to
For publishing to survive anywhere in the world contend with this phenomenon, and yet, conversely, it
A MAJO ER V E L NIT TE !RARY NEW! O avt ah ie lar b l en :onfiction
` Bessie Head's first long piece A Gesture of Belonging
` of fiction and the only one Letters from Bessie
she set in South Africa is now Head, 1965-1979
_ available. Edited by Randolph Vigne
0-435-08059-8 $12.50
“I hope the letters will show,”
says the author, a literary and
political friend of Bessie Head
who corresponded with her while
he was editor of The New African
in London, “that, with her death
on 17 April 1986, the light that
went out was a bright and
isncesnpiersi n ogf ohneer, hliofwe e vtherat d iatrk the
illuminated.”
A Woman Alone
T 5-h 9e C 67ar -2d i n $a 1l 0s WA 0r-u i4tt i3no 5gb s-i 9o 0g 5r 7a 8p -h 3i c a $l
0-43 0 9 .95 9.95
January/February 1996 Volume 18 Number 5
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:27:01 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
is precisely this that has, in some instances, provided who are members of the group. Similarly in Malaysia a
the impetus to set up local publishing houses in an small group of activists and academics called Sisters in
attempt to “redress the balance”. Islam has begun a process of questioning Islam from
Women’s Books and Women’s Movements within. Can the religion be as inegalitarian as the clergy
would have it seem? Using meticulous and detailed
In the Third World one of the strengths of feminist research, Sisters in Islam initially brought out two pam-
publishing has been the close links it has with the phlets. These have now been followed
women’s movement. Indeed, had it not been for the by a book, and their future plans in-
kinds of questions thrown up by women’s move- clude other, similar publications. In
ments, and the environment of interest and empathy Manila, Isis International (a group
provided by them, feminist publishers would have originally founded by two women,
found it hard to survive. Not only publishing, but also Jane Cottingham and Marilee Karl,
the introduction of women’s studies and courses on and based then in Rome), has a range PINTADOS
gender in the academy have been occasioned by the of activities which include the publica-
gains of women’s movements across countries. And tion of books and pamphlets which are distributed all
women’s studies has in turn led to the need for mate- over the world. Much of this kind of ‘outside’ publish-
rials for teaching and training, which have provided ing is funded with grants from donor agencies, and it is
much of the base for publishing. often short-lived. But it is nonetheless important to take
While women’s studies and women’s publishing it into account.
are closely linked, the impetus for setting up women’s Where books are difficult to publish, groups in
„publishing houses has also come from other sources. the South have often started with the occasional pam-
Thailand, for example, does not phlet or booklet and, in many cases, journals and
have a long history of women’s magazines. This is particularly true in Latin America
studies courses, and its key femi- where some feminist magazines have acted as precur-
nist/women’s publishing house, sors to publishing houses. Magazines are, of course,
Genderpress, publishes mainly not easy to publish or sustain. Most of these, however,
‘popular’ works such as novels by women writers and are not commercial magazines, but those associated
translations of well known classics into Thai. Similarly, with women’s groups and usually funded on a non-
though the Women’s Action Forum and other activities commercial basis. The kind of knowledge base created
in Pakistan did provide one of the impetuses for the by such occasional publishing has often proved useful
setting up of women’s publishing, both Simorgh and for groups that may later go in for books: it provides
ASR (Applied Socio-Economic Research) initially began ready-made and only partially circulated material
publishing as women’s groups, bringing out pamphlets which can be put together into book form at some
and the occasional book as part of their work. ASR later point. Several publishers in Third World countries
developed a full-fledged publishing program as one have gained from such efforts.
arm of its work and now regularly attends book fairs The different political and economic situations in
and book-related events. countries in this part of the world, as opposed to the
In the Third World, as indeed in many countries in North, have combined to produce both strengths and
the First World, a great deal of women’s publishing weaknesses in Third World feminist publishing. In rel-
st ta ik te us t e sp l a ac ne d o u wt os mid ee n ’so f g rp ou ub pli ss h bin rg in gh o ou us te s . n uR mes be ea rr sc h o fin- D o J90 ca oti mve el sy c hpo eao pr ;e r n ec wou n tt er ci he ns o ll oa gb io er s
books and pamphlets which feed into the overall cre- T60 are expensive and often late en-
ation of knowledge and information on women. In trants. This may, on the one hand,
Zimbabwe, for example, the Zimbabwe Women Writers mean that in terms of quality,
Group is not a publishing enterprise. Their main work books produced in the South may not always be able to
is to get writers together, and to hold discussions and compete with those in the North. On the other, publish-
workshops on women’s writing. As part of this, how- ers are often able to experiment with innovative things
ever, they have published a few books by the women that may well be expensive, or virtually impossible to
31 January/February 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:27:01 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
fore modest, with small flaps pasted on in strategic
places which could be lifted up and people could see the
processes of menstruation, etc.
rural women from the north Indian state of Rajasthan. The important thing about such a book was that
The book has an interesting history: it was initially it had to be priced very low in order that it could
‘written’ as a result of a series of workshops on health become accessible to its target readership — village
that were conducted in different districts in Rajasthan women. For most mainstream publishers this would
among rural women. At the end of the workshops, some not have been a viable proposition. The feminist pub-
100 women got together to ‘produce’ (make by hand) lishing house, Kali, however, took on the task of
two or three copies of the book entitled Shareer ki Jaankari producing this book. The
(Know Your Body), which held information and knowl- most complicated — and po-
edge that they felt was needed by them, and therefore tentially expensive — part of
probably by other women (especially rural women) as the book was the binding.
But since most binding in PUBLISHERS
naked women with different parts of their bodies India is done by hand, it was
marked, but this was not well received in the villages eventually possible to get the book bound, flaps and
where these initial two or three books were tested. al], quite cheaply (and, interestingly, by a group of
women binders who had been trained in binding as
you did not see a naked woman in a village (i.e. if the an income-generating activity). Elsewhere, it would
women were well covered), how could a book about probably have been quite difficult to keep the price of
village women represent them differently? The women such a book so low, and indeed to get the complicated
then returned to the drawing board, so to speak, and work of binding and pasting done so painlessly. Nor
produced a different version of the book, one that had would most mainstream publishers have been inter-
both women and men traditionally dressed, and there- ested in such a labor-intensive, small-economic-return
activity. But for feminist publishers, the returns are
often considered not only in economic terms.
Order your While this kind of thing may be more easily possi-
ble in countries in the southern hemisphere, there are
music today and o shth orer ta, g em s a j oo fr rc eo sn os ut rr ca ein s t s a n o dn r ap wub l mish atin erg i. a l sT ,h e ps ae p ei rn ,c lu add ee -
quate machinery — problems which are compounded
it’s on its way by the lack of efficient postal systems, expensive postal
and freight rates, the absence of a good library or retail
TO DAY! system, as well as the many other problems such as
illiteracy, lack of buying power etc., that we have dis-
cussed earlier. These are things that impact on
publishing as a whole; but something like feminist
Same Day Shipping on all music publishing is further affected for a number of reasons...
orders placed by 3:00pm EST.
There are other things that differentiate feminist
Women’s Music e Riot Grrrls Music publishing in the South from its counterpart in the
Gay/Lesbian Music e Celtic Music North. Because of their roots in activism, publishers
Native American Music e Acapella Music and groups in the South have often chosen not to
Songbooks e Videos e and more! specialize in the way that northern publishers have.
The bulk of publishing in many countries is educa-
Goldenrod/Horizon Distribution tional — as that is the priority. While academic books
(517) 484-1712 Fax: (517) 484-1771 do exist, in greater or lesser degree depending on the
See Third World, page 36.
January/February 1996 32
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:27:01 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsATIII Fe minRist B ook storNe News
By Heather L. Smith Bessie Head is one of Africa's best known women
Heinemann Trade Division writers. She was born in 1937 in South Africa, the
result of an “illicit” union between a Black man and a
Heinemann has a long, unique history of present- white woman. Her early life was a traumatic one; she
ing international women’s voices to the rest of the was raised by a foster family until age thirteen and
world through our African Writers Series®, our Carib- then went to a mission school before training as a
bean Writers Series® and, most recently, our Asian teacher. After teaching for four years, Head worked as
Writers Series. Every year the number of novels and a journalist for Golden City Post in South Africa. How-
single-author short story collections by women in ever, an unsuccessful marriage and her involvement
these lists grows substantially. In addition,
Heinemann publishes a number of anthologies of
women’s writing, such as Unwinding Threads and The
Heinemann Book of African Women’s Poetry, and studies
of women’s writing, e.g., In Their Own Voices: African
Women Writers Talk.
All three of these series are co-published with
Heinemann’s sister company in England, which al-
lows these books to be available throughout the world
(except where they are, unfortunately, banned from
distribution). Books are chosen by U.S. and U.K.
editors and by field editors in Africa. While we were
not always the first to publish the books collected in
these series, we certainly keep them in print longer
than anyone else so that future generations of women
can experience the stories of those who went before
them. The author who exemplifies this tradition best Ae
is Bessie Head, all of whose major writings are kept in RA
print by Heinemann.
33
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:27:01 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
in the trial of a friend — a fellow political activist in
the National Committee for Liberation, a key member
GLOBAL of the party who had been arrested in a police raid —
led her to apply for an exit visa and a teaching job in
IN VISION Botswana at age 27. Head felt that, with so many of
her friends being arrested or forced out of the country,
for those left behind “South Africa [was] an intensely
SPINIFEX PUBLISHES INNOVATIVE lonely, intensely sad country.” (Transition, November
AND CONTROVERSIAL BOOKS BY 1963). She maintained her permanent self-imposed
WRITERS FROM ALL OVER THE WORLD exile in Botswana, first precariously as a refugee and
then, after 15 years, as a citizen. There in her chosen
B NEW ZEALAND h doav we nn , o sf h e S e wr ro ow te e, nin ov es lp s it ae n do f s ha o rs te v se tr oe r im es e n ut na tl i l b r he ea rk-
Cowrie death in 1986 at age 49.
Cathie Dunsford Until recently, all of Head’s novels were believed
to be set in Botswana. Her novel, When Rain Clouds
the t“ r,.. a nis s fan o r in mtim ata ite o n b o ok o f a b o Cut owrie, G Va it ch te or, r o r Gig oin lla all ny c zp u b Lli tsh de .d ib ny t 1h 9e 6 9B ,r it i js oh i n p eu db li s ah e r previous
H a fat dyke who travels from Heinemann series in 1972 and was eventually pub-
her New Zealand home to lished in the African Writers Series in 1987. With the
Punalu'u, Hawai'i to meet her text remaining the same, this book will be reissued
with a beautiful new cover in January 1996. As the
story of this book illustrates, Head drew heavily on
H THE PACIFIC her own personal experiences for her novels. When
Daughters of the Pacific Rain Clouds Gather tells of the poverty-stricken village
Zohil dé Ishtar of Golema Mmidi, in the heart of rural Botswana,
which offers a haven to the exiles gathered there.
ISBN 1 875559 32 9 paper $19.95 non-fiction Makhaya, a political refugee from South Africa, be-
H AUSTRALIA comes involved with an English agricultural expert
and the villagers as they struggle to revolutionize
The Falling Woman traditional subsistence farming methods by introduc-
Susan Hawthorne ing modern techniques. The pressures of tradition, the
ISBN 1875559 04 3 paper $13.95 fiction opposition of the local chief and, above all, the harsh
climate threaten to bring tragedy to the community,
H INDIA but hope remains for the future. This novel is clearly
If Passion Were a Flower ... based on the period Head spent as a refugee living at
the Bamangwato Development Farm.
Lariane Fonseca Maru, Head's second novel, first published in
ISBN 1875559 06 X cloth $39.95 gift/photography 1971 also by Victor Gollancz Ltd., was included in the
African Writers Series in 1972. This book will also be
reissued with a striking new cover in January 1996.
Maru tells of Margaret Cadmore, an orphaned
C)PINIFEX PRESS Masarwa girl who comes to Dilepe to teach, only to
173 Slater Boulevard, Staten Island, NY 10305 discover that, in this remote Botswana village, her
Tel. 718 351 9599 people are treated as outcasts. In the love story and
Distributed in the USA & Canada by INBOOK intrigue that follows, Head brilliantly combines a por-
Tel. 800 243 0138 • Fax 800 334 3892 trait of loneliness with a rich affirmation of the
mystery and spirituality of life. Her concern for
January/February 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:27:01 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
ordinary people in Maru has the sharp authenticity of AFRICAN WRITERS SERIES
personal experiente.
A Question of Power, first published in 1974 by
Davis-Poynter Ltd. and joining the African Writers
Series in the same year, is an intensely autobiograph-
ical novel. In this book, Head never makes it clear
whether or not the main character's mental break-
down is caused by the mission school principals cruel
revelation of her mixed origins. However, like Head,
the protagonist does leave South Africa for Botswana.
Bessie Head next turned her talents to short sto-
ries and began her direct, long-lasting relationship
with Heinemann with The Collector of Treasures, pub-
lished in the African Writers Series in 1977. In 1981
Serowe: Village of the Rain Wind, a skillful and original
historical portrait of one hundred years of the
Botswanan community, reconstructed through the
words of different members of the village, was pub- BESSIE HEAD
lished by Heinemann. (A Bewitched Crossroad,
published in 1984, is the one Head novel not included of long fiction Head produced (not When Rain Clouds
in the African Writers Series and is not, unfortunately, Gather as previously thought), and it is the only one
widely available.) In 1989, Tales of Tenderness and Power set in South Africa. Since we know Head draws heav-
was published posthumously by the Netherlands ily on her own life in her fiction, The Cardinals is an
publisher, Ad Donker, and in the Series. This book is opportunity to learn more about Head before she
a moving collection of both famous and previously exiled herself to Botswana. In addition, seven pieces
unpublished works. of short fiction which were written immediately after
After Head’s death, Heinemann continued its com- her arrival in Botswana are collected with this novella.
mitment to her writing by publishing her The Cardinals tells of Mouse, a woman who, after a
autobiographical writings, A Woman Alone (edited by childhood of poverty and abuse in the slums of Cape
Craig MacKenzie), in 1990. These writings cover the Town, unexpectedly lands a job as a reporter in the
entire span of Head's creative life, revealing a woman offices of African Beat. She is too withdrawn to flourish
of great sensitivity and vitality. A year later, Heinemann in her new world and struggles to find her identity as a
published (outside of the Series) A Gesture of Belonging: woman and a writer against the muckraking demanded
Letters from Bessie Head, 1965-1979 (edited by Randolph by her editors and the sexism of the newsroom. Johnny
Vigne). This book is a selection of letters she wrote to believes in her, but his faith carries its own dangers in
Randolph Vigne, a political and literary friend from her the South Africa of the 1960s. Questions of origins,
Cape Town days, then editor of The New African in identity, sexuality, writing, love, revenge, and politics
London. While her letters are often a record of a mind unite to propel characters to joy while disaster awaits.
under intolerable strain, her despair was the equal of The Cardinals is sure to bring Bessie Head's writ-
her great joys. She writes in one letter, “God knows, ings back into the limelight and help her voice
Maru is so goddam beautiful, it is the best thing I've continue to be heard across all gender, racial, and
written so far... I mean I wrote it right in hell.” national barriers. In fact, the storm of attention has
Today, we are extremely proud and excited to be already begun with the publication of the biography,
able to announce an exciting literary event: a newly Bessie Head “Thunder Behind Her Ears:” Her Life and
discovered novel by Bessie Head, The Cardinals, to be Writing (by Gillian Stead Eilersen; co-published with
published for the first time outside of South Africa in James Currey in England and David Philip in South-
January 1996! The aspects of this book that make it so ern Africa; now available in the United States from
thrilling are that it is believed to be the very first piece Heinemann).
Volume 18 Number 5 35
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:27:01 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Heinemann continues to foster and develop Third World Publishing, continued from page 32.
young women writers from around the world. While country, there is not that much of what is known as
Bessie Head’s writings remain one of the mainstays of trade publishing. Thus, whether it is in Indonesia, or
the African Writers Series, new voices are being heard, Malaysia, or Nigeria or Chile, one may be almost sure
such as Lindsey Collen of Mauritus, whose Rape of Sita that educational and academic books will have prior-
was banned by her state government; Calixthe Beyala, ity. Here, because there are very few courses which are
a rising African star in francophone writing; and Gaele open to the kinds of books feminist publishers are
Sobott-Mogwe of Botswana, whose Colour Me Blue has publishing, it becomes difficult to find a point of entry.
been compared to Bessie Head’s writing (Choice, Octo- Then again, in many places feminist publishing in the
ber 1995). And in the Caribbean Writers Series recent West seems to be divided into the kind of books that
years have seen the discovery of such new women feminist presses do more of — fiction, self help, mem-
writers as Christine Craig, Vanessa Spence, and Patri- oirs, autobiography, etc., — and the more ‘academic’
cia Powell, whose first novel, Me Dying Trial, which has books [are] produced by university presses who run
received enthusiastic acclaim, was one of those occa- strong women’s lists. This is not a situation that is
sional gems from the “slush pile.” We feel that, like commonly found in countries of the South: publishers
Bessie Head, all our international women authors offer and women’s groups produce a range of things which
experiences and wisdom that women of all can include practically any and every sort of book,
nationalities can learn from and value. We certainly do. from the textbook to the children’s book to the hand-
book or activist book, to fiction and academic works.
Author’s Note: The original theme for this article Below we look in detail at some of the kinds of books
was the increasing significance of women writers in the and materials feminist presses in the Third World are
African Writers Series and the Caribbean Writers Series. producing, and we trace, in as much as it is possible,
However, in researching these topics, I found that due a kind of history of feminist publishing in different
to the staff turnover since 1962, when the African series parts of the Third World.
was started with Chinua Achebe’s novel, Things Fall
Apart, there was no single, easily reachable source on Editor’s note: I was tempted to just reprint this
how women became such an important part of the entire 82-page book for our “International Voices Issue
series. While I couldn't track down all the details, I did — it took me weeks to narrow down the parts I wanted
get the feeling that including women was not by design. to reproduce here to just a few pages. It's all indispens-
Rather, these authors were accepted for publication be- able and fascinating reading for any first-world
cause of their strong writing and their stories of their feminist bookseller or publisher facing burn-out or just
native homes. I also learned that despite the importance looking for more information about the larger context
of women writers in the series, they presently make up in which we do our work. I’ve never seen this much
33% of the Caribbean Writers Series and less than 20% information about the growth and development of
of the African Writers Series. The representation of feminist publishing in South and Southeast Asia, The
women writers has grown substantially in recent years, Pacific, North and Sub-Saharan Africa, and Latin
though. For instance in 1988 there were five women America collected anywhere else. Give yourself a treat
authors in the African list; in 1995 there were fifteen, not and order one for yourself today! —CS
including the many writers represented in anthologies
as mentioned in the above article. Making a Difference: Feminist Publishing in the
From my experience in promotion, I have found South by Urvashi Butalia and Ritu Menon is published
that there are many outlets to publicize women writ- as the fifth book in a series of monographs on publish-
ers, yet, unfortunately, there do not seem to be as many ing in the Third World. $15 pb, 0-964078-0-8. 50%
buyers. Thankfully universities, especially women’s discount (non-returnable) for 5+ copies, 33% discount
studies programs, continue to expose students to for 2-4 copies. Order from Bellagio Publishing
African and Caribbean literature, thus creating Network, Research and Information Center, School of
anidn extpaendringn thae tmiaroketn foar l t he sev imopoirctanets. O Education, 225 Campion Hall, Boston College,
Chestnut Hill MA 02167; 617-552-4236. O
January/February 1996 36
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:27:01 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Choosing the Books
By Bruce McPherson reader. I live for that, rare as it is, and I think that it’s
an essential component of vision. Of course that’s not
For twenty-odd years as a publisher I've had the much talked about these days either. But vision is
distressing inclination not to accept less than the best what actually lifts away from reality the dreary habits
and not to know in advance what I was looking for of received notions and passé clichés and smeary
until I found it. The almost inevitable corollary is that advertising and political humbug. And style is the
t th ie o n r ae ls u lt ti on g m bo ao ik ns s tw ro eu ald m b e c ufu ln td ua rm ee .n t Ia ll y e v o ep npo s i s- tarted vehicl e S o — w ht eh ne ia tc t c oo mf e st h i tn ok i fn ig c t it oh nr , o u I g h tr yla n tg ou a pg ue b. lish
McPherson & Company (at the ps authors who possess both qualities — style and vision.
time called Treacle Press) be- I also look for humor and wit and all the other features
cause a particular writer, Jaimy £4 NTE of good fiction. And to “discover” those writers I’ve
Gordon, couldn't get a com- |V often depended on other writers to point them out: in
p nle ox v, e lb e a put uif bu ll i s a hn ed d .v e r Hy e rfu n wny ork A N AO V E tL SR | f da irc et c, t is no gm e uo sn e t oo u et as ci hde o t fh e o u h ro u is ne t e ris n a r tie os np ao ln s aib ul te h o f ro sr .
taught me the meaning of style. ESS | Carolee Schneemann handed me Pamela
Bring up the subject of Frankau’s A Wreath for the Enemy — an unusually
style and most people auto- (t constructed but utterly convincing — and quite
matically think you're |} comical coming-of-age novel from the early 1950s by
referring to endless sentences a forgotten English author. At first its
of endless clauses exactingly H) reappearance was met with relative in-
constructed by Henry James, to difference and after a year or two the
Southern Gothic Faulknerian ; warehouse still bulged with the first
paragraphs that hang like printing. Then Virago licensed it for a UK
Spanish moss from sundrenched live oaks, | A edition and I repackaged it as a “Recov-
or to the telegraph-like tough cadences af- ered Classic,” my new line at the time
fected by noir mystery writers. Which, _ (and still going). Burlington Bookshop in
after all, gets kind of boring very quickly, at | Manhattan adopted it as one of their
least to talk about. hand-sell specials and sold four or five
But when you read a writer with tre- hundred copies in two years. There
mendous command over language, you ought to be a movie....
realize very quickly that you’re about to IN Anna Maria Ortese is another case in
experience something utterly different as a 24 point: I don’t read Italian but, in the early
Volume 18 Number 5 January/February 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:27:01 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
1980s, I'd done two successful books with Henry
Martin, an expatriated American art critic in the
Tyrol. Henry volunteered to edit an Italian fiction
series (which seemed like an especially good idea,
since Italians are under represented among Europ-
eans in translation) and I was to get the translation
grants. Ortese was Henry’s absolute first choice, and
he had a good understanding of my literary list.
Now here’s a writer who is arguably the finest living
Italian author today, a woman whose first book was
published in 1937 and who lived for 53 years in
relative poverty before becoming a best-selling
writer in her own country.
The book that Henry suggested we publish in
1987, The Iguana, is generally regarded as her master-
piece. Naturally, the translation went through
multiple drafts, the whole process taking well over a
year, and it’s quite a short novel!
Meanwhile I had to resolve some vexing interna-
tional copyright questions, fend off a hostile takeover
of the book from a major American house, and corre-
spond directly with an author who read as much
English as I read Italian. But at last it appeared and I
was feeling a certain smug satisfaction that we had
made a difference in the author’s tenuous financial
situation when I was utterly nonplused to receive a
telegram sent at Ortese’s direction stating that all of
her English-language royalties were to be donated to
PEN American Center for writers with AIDS!
That we succeeded with that book, in relative
terms (7500 copies in print), still amazes me, though
it is still an uphill battle to convince critics, publi-
biographical essays, interviews and cists, readers, and booksellers alike that not only did
photographs introducing Canadian women Magical Realism originate with the Italians (at the
athletes who have achieved excellence in tt hur e n d io rf e c tt h e m y2 t0 ht oh p oc ee tn ict u r liy n) e, a gb eu . t I fa l s oo n lyth a st h eO r wte es re e is in
their chosen sport. Celebrating Excellence South American!
In 1994 we brought out a subsequent volume of
profiles over 200 past, present and future Ortese’s visionary short stories — which are about as
champions. Current and historic unlike anything written by a North American as imag-
photographs are featured throughout. inable — and discovered that we're going to have to
campaign for an audience all over again! Fortunately,
1-896095-04-6 • $24.95 USA/$29.95 CAN pb we'd planned A Music Behind the Wall as a two-volume
81/2 X11 • 260 pages • more than 200 b&w photos throughout project, with the second slated to appear at the end of
& PO Box b 4D y 6i 8s t ,O r ri Cb c uu a s t te B ed ro ,o i k n W P At uh b e 9l i 8 sU 2h 4. eS 0r. -A s 0. 468 o1 f9 9 6 t. h iA s n sd e, t u wn il li lk e a p t ph ee a r s t io nr ie vs a r ii on u st h ne a t f ioi nrs at l lv io telu rm are y, most
OOK PUBLISHERS Tel: (604) T38 o 0 - o1 r2 d2 e9 r : F a 1x -8: 0 0(6 -0 24 1) 0 - 3 58 20 7- 71892 magazines (including Conjunctions, Alea, and Third
Coast) before the book is published.
January/February 1996 38 Volume 18 Number 5
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:27:01 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Publishing the third of our interna- are being written here and and abroad,
tional women authors has developed that set Mary Butts against the likes of
almost into an obsession to do it right. I'd Woolf, H.D., Rhys, Stein, Mansfield,
heard about Mary Butts in the 1970s but Boyle, Blixen, and her other contemporar-
mne ev e or n er e a od f h he er r u nn ot vi el l s R o inb e r 1t 9 9 0K .e l l Iy c oh ua ln dd ne 'td sie us m. mA en rd , win e o wn ee r es t r inan stg re u m tw enis tt a l t ih ni s r p esa ts ot r-
believe my eyes: here was an English ing virtually the whole of Butts’s work
high-modernist who had run with the into European copyright.
fast Parisian crowd in the 20s, spoke and Publishing should require a certain
wrote perfect French, knew devotion from the publisher — otherwise
e av ne dr y so on me, e h d owid fe ov ue nry d t h ti in mg e, VOKUS V TA w wh riy t e rb so t ah se r F? r aB nu kt a u p , u b Ol ri tsh esi en g a ns du c h B u tg ti sfted
enough to write books that | makes devotion the easy part, even when
anticipate a host of our con- the process literally takes years. I don’t
temporary obsessions: jazz, even think of them as “foreign” authors anymore. At
movies, psychoanalysis, yes, a certain point their visions, their styles become part
but also spirituality, homo- } of the fabric of our thought. And as they become
sexuality, creativity, women | Ours, in some way we become theirs. At least I like
in politics, the environment. to think so.
She could write modern fic- |
tion, historical fiction, ghost # Bruce McPherson directs his literary and arts house
stories, mystery, symbolist in New York's Hudson Valley. In addition to interna-
fantasy. She could write $ tional women writers, McPherson & Company publishes
sharply etched modern ` Maya Deren, Pamela Zoline, Carolee Schneemann, Sheila
poetry evoking the classical oracles at Delphi and, Ascher, Jaimy Gordon, Elinor Schaffer, Denise Ohio, and
with the other hand, turn out reams of essays and Ursula Molinaro. McPherson & Company may be
expert book reviews. Her personal life was some- rfeachaedx at: PO B8ox 0 11026, - K6ing1ston3 N-Y 8 1224011; p9hon.e o rO
thing of a disaster, I suppose, and she died at much
too young an age, 47, in 1937. Her work was mostly
lost through neglect — a few brief revivals being
halfhearted or wrong-headed. Who could resist the
challenge?
I don't think any writer gets more than a few
chances. In fact it’s entirely conceivable that there
are quite a few wonderful writers whose work was
very badly managed by their publishers and is vir-
tually unknown today. So, since 1992, we've brought
out two large volumes of two novels each, an ample
selection of the short stories and, just six weeks ago,
the first monograph of essays about Butts’s work,
titled A Sacred Quest and edited by Christopher
Wagstaff. Later this year we'll issue a fourth volume
titled Ashe of Rings and Other Writings, which will
complete our project of bringing her major works
back into print. I expect Nathalie Blondell will finish o
her full-scale biography this summer, which we'll *
issue here with Carcanel Press doing the British edi- Ra
tion, in 1997. Meantime a flurry of academic theses Mary Butts by Jean Cocteau, From With and Without.
Volume 18 Number 5 39 January/February 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:27:01 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
BIRTH IS A LIFELONG PROCESS
The University of Illinois Press proudly
announces a new book by a contributing
author to Our Bodies, Ourselves
BEARING MEANING
The Language of Birth
ROBBIE PFEUFER KAHN
Cloth, $29.95
“Stunning in its weaving together of politics, philosophy,
and extensively lived and deeply felt experience. It places
childbearing research within the context of the author’s life.
Academics, policymakers, and laypeople all could learn a
great deal by reading this book.” — Jane Pincus and Norma
Swenson, for the Boston Women’s Health Book Collective,
creators of Our Bodies, Ourselves
“Traces the patriarchal co-option of the language of birth
and women’s reclaiming of that language . ..A powerful agent
of that reclaiming.” — Robbie Davis-Floyd, author of Birth as
an American Rite of Passage
WRITING OUT MY HEART
Selections from the Journal of
Francis E. Willard, 1855-96
EDITED BY CAROLYN DE SWARTE GIFFORD
Cloth, $29.95
Francis E. Willard was nineteenth-century America’s most renowned
and influential woman, best known for her powerful leadership of
the Woman’s Christian Temperence Union (WCTU).
“Entries show the development of her religious and reform commitments,
her search for suitable oulets for her ambition, and her struggles to
reconcile conflicting demands of family, society, and self . . . An essential
purchase for any academic library supporting courses in U.S. history
and women’ studies.” — Library Journal
Tlinois
ETUATE (0E OIN ANS aae) AA INO NAA OAN Champaign, IL 61820
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:27:01 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
AAAI NR NN N
By Jenn Tust (Aimee), a Gentile housewife and mother, and Felice
(Jaguar), a Jewish lesbian. In August 1944, a year and
We had planned to call booksellers and inquire a half after they met, Felice was arrested by the
about their favorite and bestselling international titles Gestapo and later killed. After Felice was taken away,
for an “International Faves and Raves” feature, but Lilly helped to shelter three more lesbian Jews from
the intersection of our flu epidemic and the beginning the Nazis, and raised her four sons as Jews after the
of the holiday selling season in the bookstores made it war, as she mourned her lost lover. Fischer recreated
impossible. So here’s a short collection of international the story through Lilly's memories and journals,
fiction and non-fiction titles that have come through Felice’s photographs and poems, legal documents
the office recently... and interviews with other survivors of the war. In the
epilogue of this heartbreaking story, Fischer admits to
Lieutenant Nun: Memoir of a Basque Trans- finding some disturbing discrepancies in Lilly’s
vestite in the New World by Catalina de Erauso, memories, in the details of her life before Felice.
translated by Michele Stepto and Gabriel Stepto, is the Translator's notes should have been included, espe-
story of a Basque woman who was placed in a convent cially to explain the translation of the poetry from
at the age of four in 1589, and at 15 ran away to fight as German to English. The translation is a bit awkward,
a gm a hn in et ah rse iS np a n this eh Nc eo wnq u Wes ot lo df CP ae tr au na an d eC h Ei rle a. oDur- sometimes too litera l to Sget thEe full meaning across to
in e r y r , l i d u s
worked as a merchant, major-domo and soldier. After
accidentally killing her brother in a duel, she fell into a ENARE
life of gambling, deceit and murder. Finally cornered,
she confessed her “condition” and became an overnight
celebrity. In Rome, Pope Urban the Eighth in 1626
granted her permission to continue her life as a man.
Wow! $16.95 cl, 0-8070-7072-6, Beacon Press.
In 1991, 78-year-old Lilly Wust shared her mem-
ories of Berlin during WWII with Erica Fischer, a
German Jew interested in publishing Lilly’s story.
Aimee and Jaguar: A Love Story, Berlin 1943, is an
incredible true story of two German women who fell
in love during an extraordinarily turbulent time: Lilly
Volume 18 Number 5 41 January/February 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:27:01 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Mist focuses on a woman of the landowning class who
is “gifted — or burdened — with an extraordinary
When an American artist and her imagination and an empathetic bond with the natural
Iranian husband visit Teheran after world.” In The Shrouded Woman the principal voice
the Iran-Iraq war, they encounter is that of Ana Maria, who reminisces and comments
professional challenges and sexual on the night of her own wake, as she lies in the coffin
temptations that change the course of and opens her eyes to the people who have come to
their lives. pay their respects. $19.95 pb, 0-292-70830-0; $40 cl,
"Remarkable for its evenhandedness -70836-X, University of Texas Press.
wan ed 'v e p a fi in nf iu shl e dh o n coes nt fy r. o.. nB ty i n gt h e Ir at nim fe rom The Crooked Line by Ismat Chughtai, translated
very diverse perspectives, each by Tahira Naqvi, is the story of Shamman, the tenth
beautifully evoked, we have and youngest child in a middle-class Muslim family
experienced the potent spell it casts in India. Isolated and ignored as she grows up,
over its people, and the weight of that Shamman’s nature is to rebel against her upbringing.
spel l — Rfo or s e la le nW e Bs rt oe wrn n woman." Set in a time of great upheaval and transition as India
moves from imperial past to an independent future,
Also available: Veils: Short Stories (087286-267-4 The Crooked Line is the multi-layered account of a
$8.95) and the novel Married To A Stranger young woman searching for her place in the new
(087286-276-3 $9.95). world. Lesbian bibliophiles will recall Chughtai’s
Distributed by Subterranean Company story, “The Quilt” (in The Quilt and Other Stories /Kali
8 In00 d- iv27 id4 u-7 al8 2 o6 r do er r s f a cx a ll 5 4 C1 i- t8 y4 7 L-6 ig0 h18 t. s 415-362-8193. for Women and Sheep Meadow Press), which was
dragged through obscenity trials at about the same
time as The Well of Loneliness was on trial in the U.S.
$11.95 pb, 0-435-95089-4, Heinemann.
English-speaking readers, but well worth reading as
an inside peek into how two women lived during the The contributors to International Women’s Writ-
viHolenacer ofp tehe r hoClocoauslt.l $i2n4 csl, . 0 -0 6-—01835K0-0,WW ing: New Landscapes of Identity, edited by Anne E.
Brown and Marjanne E. Goozé, explore the diversity
of female identity as it is expressed in the literatures of
In the stories that comprise The Waiting List: An Africa, India, Latin America, the Caribbean, Western
Iraqi Woman's Tales of Alienation by Daisy Al-Amir, Europe, Russia, Canada and the United States. The
translated by Barbara Parmenter, the author seems to writers consider the construction of identity as im-
be waiting. Against the background of the Lebanese pacted by sexism, racism, classism, heterosexism and
Civil War, Al-Amir, a single, educated woman, de- colonialism. The essays employ a wide range of meth-
scribes her “interior journey to find honesty and pride odologies and exhibit the breadth and scope of current
in a world usually dominated by men and extended feminist literary theories. They focus on the interrela-
families.” The stories reflect on the chaotic worlds of tionships between female identity and place, where
civil war and social transition. $8.95 pb, 0-292-79067-8. place suggests both physical and metaphorical space.
Suri and Co.: Tales of a Persian Teenage Girl by $55 cl, 0-313-29045-8, Greenwood Publishing Group;
Mahshid Amirshahi, translated by J.E. Knörzer, offers 800-225-5800.
a glimpse at daily life in pre-revolutionary Iran,
through the humorous stories of an adolescent girl. Three novels by French novelist Marie Redonnet
Looks great! $9.95 pb, 0-292-70463-1. were translated by Jordan Stump for University of
House of Mist and The Shrouded Woman, two Nebraska's European Women in Translation Series.
Hôtel Splendid recounts the lives of three sisters
translated by the author, are presented in a one- living in a decrepit hotel on the edge of a swamp. The
volume edition by University of Texas Press. House of narrator, the youngest sister, struggles to preserve the
January/February 1996 42
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:27:01 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
hotel in the face of obstacles: the decay of the build- gender-marked writing; it takes up issues of écriture
ing, the indifference and illness of her sisters, and the féminine, French feminism, rape, and marriage.
expansion of the swamp. ($10 pb, 0-8032-8953-7.) $12.95 pb, 0-253-20992-7; $24.95 cl, -32929-9, Indiana
Forever Valley is about a 16-year-old girl who lives University Press.
in a rectory and works in a dance hall. Gradually she
embarks upon a “personal project” digging pits in In these 100 poems, View With a Grain of Sand,
the rectory garden and looking for the dead. ($10 pb, Polish author Wislawa Szymborska “portrays a
0-8032-8951-0.) And in Rose Mellie Rose, Mellie, world in which nature is wise and prodigal and fate
who as a baby is found in a grotto, then is raised in a unpredictable.” With irony and curiosity,
souvenir shop by Rose. At the age of twelve Mellie Szymborska documents life's improbability as well
goes to the dying town of Oât, where she enters as its transient beauty: the ruins of Troy, sunlight on
premature adulthood and assembles a photographic a pewter jug, birds returning in the spring, the
and written record of her life. ($10 pb, 0-8032-8952-9.) Abominable Snowman lurking in the Himalayas.
“Her poetry captures the diversity and richness of
Found Treasures: Stories by Yiddish Women existence.” Translated by Stanislaw Baranczak and
Writers is edited by Frieda Forman, Ethel Raicus, Clare Cavanagh. $12 pb, 0-15-600216-7; $20 cl,
Sarah Silberstein Swartz, and Margie Wolfe, with an -100153-7, Harcourt Brace.
introduction by Irena Klepfisz. “Acclaimed an instant
classic, this prize-winning collection presents voices Originally published in France in 1958, Ramza by
from an almost forgotten female heritage through 18 Out El Kouloub, now translated and with an introduc-
writers who speak powerfully of the events that tion by Nayra Atiya, is the tale of one woman’s
shaped their lives: life in the shtetIs and cities of rebellion against her life in the harem of a wealthy
Europe, the terror and challenge of survival during Egyptian family at the turn of the century. She tells of
the Holocaust and its aftermath, and the struggle to despising the constraints and describes the life of
forge new lives in North America and Israel.” $16.95 women in her elite milieu, including methods em-
pb, 0-929005-53-8, Second Story Press. Distributed ployed by the wives and concubines to ensure the
by InBook. power they seek for themselves and their children.
Ramza is drawn to books, music and eventually the
White Flash/Black Rain: Women of Japan Re- men’s quarter, daring to express her repressed
live the Bomb is edited and translated by Lequita
Vance-Williams and Aratani Mariko. “Poetry and
prose by 15 Japanese women bear unique witness to
the day the bomb [was dropped] on Japan and to our
shared responsibility for peace. A searingly beautiful
collection. After you read the history, read this book.
—Library Journal. An extraordinary document that
should be read by all men and women who still ideal-
ize warfare as heroic. —Riane Eisler.” $12.95 pb,
1-57131-402-4, Milkweed Editions. Distributed by IN,
BP, B&T, Ingram, Pacific Pipeline, PGW and Koen.
In Other Words by Marie Cardinal, translated by
Amy Cooper, presents conversations between writers
Marie Cardinal and Annie Leclerc, interspersed with
Cardinal's musings on her psychoanalysis; her rela-
tionships with her mother and with colonial Algeria;
the lives of women and the feelings and experi-
ences they share. Their conversation exemplifies
43 January/February 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:27:01 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
physical, social and sexual desires. $14.50 pb, 0-8156- the author that “in this book made up of my words,
0280-4; $26 cl, -2618-5, Syracuse University Press. itis my very self that is present. You have written the
story just as I have told it.” Spanning six decades of
Beirut Blues by Hanan al-Shaykh, translated by Leonora’s life, the docu-novel explores the eco-
Catherine Cobham, is a novel in the form of letters by nomic, social and cultural life of Guadeloupe’s
a woman struggling to make sense of her life and peasants and working class. In the course of her life,
preserve her fond memories of Beirut as it existed Leonora has witnessed, from her perspective as the
before civil strife destroyed it. She records details of mother of a large family, the passage of Guadeloupe
her existence, and about her sense of being a hostage from colony to département of France; from the
in her own country. $22.95 cl, 0-385-47381-8, Anchor hard-scrabble subsistence agriculture of the rural
Books/Doubleday. poor to the subsidized consumer economy of
France’s overseas départements today. She offers
All of the medical, technological, and psycholog- observations on language, politics, sex and religion.
ical advances of the twentieth century struggle against $17.95 pb, 0-8139-1518-X; $50 cl, -1515-5, University
mankind’s being made up of Mere Mortals is Terese of Virginia.
Svoboda’s third book of poetry. $14.95 pb, 0-8203-
1710-1, University of Georgia Press. The Dawning by Milka Bajic-Poderegin tells a
story of several generations of women in turn-of-the-
Chiwid is comprised of stories, collected by Sage century Ottoman-occupied Serbia. Shaped by the
Birchwater, telling about Chiwid, who for half of this complexities of family history, the women face the
century lived in the forests, lakes and bush of the challenge of balancing ancient traditions against the
Chilcotin plateau (Northwestern Canada), “the way opportunities and terrors of an emerging new world.
the old people lived” moving her solitary camp with The novel, originally written in Serbo-Croatian, was
the seasons. Said to have spiritual powers, she kept to begun in 1963; was translated by the author’s daugh-
herself and chose to live outdoors. Here is Chiwid’s ter, Nadja Poderegin, and first published in 1987, 16
story, told in the voices of Chilcotin old-timers, both years after the author died. $14.95 pb, 1-56656-188-4,
Native and non-native. “An almost unbelievable story Interlink Publishing Group, 46 Crosby Street, North-
of a remarkable woman, Chiwid is also a vivid por- ampton MA 01060; 413-582-7057. Distributed by IN.
trait of the Chilcotin during a time of great change.”
$16 pb, 0-921586-39-6, New Star Books. Distributed by In Arab Women Novelists: The Formative Years
General Distribution Services; 800-805-1083. and Beyond Joseph T. Zeidan assesses the contribu-
tion of women to the Arabic novel in both subject
Auschwitz and After by Charlotte Delbo, trans- matter and form. Zeidan traces the struggle over
lated by Rosette C. Lamont, begins in March 1942, women’s rights in the Arab world, focusing on
when Charlotte Delbo was arrested on a charge of women’s access to education — the area in which
distributing anti-German leaflets in Paris. Her husband women first made significant gains. He also discusses
was executed by firing squad in May; Delbo remained the determination of Arab women to overcome the
in prison until January 1943, when she was deported barriers of a male-dominated culture, surveys the
to Auschwitz and then to Ravensbrück, where she ‘50s and 60s when Arab women’s writings gained
remained until the end of the war. Delbo uses vignettes, momentum, and addresses Arab women writers’
poems and prose poems to recount her experiences. shift toward international politics following the 1967
$25 cl, 0-300-06208-7, Yale University Press. Arab-Israeli war. Zeidan also compares the women’s
movements in Arab and Western cultures and the
Leonora: The Buried Story of Guadeloupe by development of women’s literature in these cultures,
sociologist and Creole-culture advocate Dany Bébel- highlighting similarities and differences between
Gisler, translated by Andrea Leskes, has both them and considering how one affected the other.
novelistic and documentary style. The real-life $24Y.95 pob, r0-79k14-21 72- 4, PStater Uneiverssitys of. New O
Leonora — model for and subject of this book — told
January/February 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:27:01 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
By Suzanne started a part-time massage practice a year ago, I loved
Two Sisters Bookshop the work and knew I could do it full-time if I wanted.
I also felt a confidence growing in me that when it was
During the first couple years after I opened the time for me to leave the store, I would know when I
store, whenever I would think about working some- was ready and it wouldn't inspire the dread that I felt
where else, like back in the toxic corporate world I had so many years ago. For this ending I wouldn't have to
just escaped, I would feel a sick dread in my belly. be fired, laid off or have my store die out from under
Fortunately such thoughts were rare. Over the next five me. I would know.
years I grew progressively stronger, especially after my So last week when I was chatting with Laurel (my
sister left and I began to run the store by myself — work associate), words started pouring out of my
making my own decisions, organizing my way, hiring mouth describing this vision I want to create. I was
who1 wanted to work with and selecting the inventory surprised to hear all the bits and pieces from the last
that I wanted. I was healing from incest during that three years come together and flow clearly and easily
period and being in the womb-like environment of my across my lips. A part of me thought, Ohhhhh noo00,
store was an essential support as I tore apart my past Stop This, Don't Say It, It Will Become Real If You Keep
and my guts, focusing on my inner healing. Talking And You Won't Be Able To Take It Back! Laurel
For most of my seven years here, the store has tells me that my clarity amazed her. She knew at that
been my life, my source of income and my connection moment that this was not idle speculation or fanciful
to women. It’s also been my connection to myself — a idea sharing, but rather the birthing of a vision.
mirror reflecting the complexities of my being and Now I've said it. I'm selling the store. I'm moving.
growth. It's been my source of well-being and the I'm excited. I'm clear and I’m scared to death much of
measure of the person I am in the world. To have been the time. I'm so busy planning my next life that I sleep
pried loose before I was ready to leave would have restlessly and have trouble focusing on the present. I
been traumatic, I believe, on the level of my childhood leave unfinished projects all over the store. I'm con-
abuse. No wonder I couldn't think of leaving for such stantly looking around and making mental packing
a long time. I believe it’s a measure of my growing lists. I vacillate between wanting to hoard and take
strength and healing that over the last three years I with me everything I love in the store and wanting to
could start to consider “life after Two Sisters.” I had no leave behind everything I own and make a clean start.
picture or vision of that life, just the very remote possi- I'm determined not to be a short-timer but my mind
bility of not being here forever. Bits and pieces about is so busy trying to control all this unknown that I
leaving started showing up in my writing and conver- can't concentrate on much else.
sations. A year ago I talked at length with a woman I want to sell the store rather than liquidate it.
who closed her clothing store after 25 years. I wanted Laurel is not ready to leave and the store still has an
to know every detail, particularly the emotional ones. important role in the community. I worry if I can sell
I dropped a few clues in my newsletters and when I it. There’s so little money to be made in bookselling
Illustration by Cynthia Cunningham-Baxter, from and the cost of living is high here, but maybe there will
Celebrating Women’s Spirituality 1996 (The Crossing Press) See Selling My Store, page 50.
45 January/February 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:27:01 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsOPIA
By Jenn Tust Nominations are now open for the Lambda
Literary Awards — only titles published in 1995 and
The first-ever National Feminist Exposition: Expo distributed in the U.S. are eligible. Nominations
96 for Women’s Empowerment will be held from must be received by February 2. Finalists will be
February 2-4 at the Sheraton Washington Hotel in announced on March 1. Winners will be announced
Washington DC. The organizers hope all types of fem- at the Lambda Literary Awards Banquet on June 14,
inist organizations and ideas from the many sectors of in Chicago. Send nominations to: Lambda Literary
society will participate in working to build a national Awards, 1625 Connecticut Avenue NW, Washinton
budget, mobilizing to keep the doors open for women DC 20009; fax 202-462-7257, e-mail: lambdabook-
and visualizing a feminist future. Any organization report@his.com.
that brings a delegation of 20 or more will receive a
20% discount for each registrant. Also, individual del- gSuPMS
egations of 20 or more will earn one free registration
for the coordinator or designee. For more information The Gregory Kolovakos Seed Grants for 1996,
contact The Feminist Majority Foundation, PO Box grants of $2,000 each, will be awarded to three out-
96780, Washington DC 20077; 703-522-2214, fax 703- standing new literary magazines. (1997 grants will be
522-2219, e-mail: femmaj@feminist.org. awarded to three literary presses.) Applications are
OutWrite 96: the Sixth Annual Queer Writers due April 1, winners will be announced in July. To be
Conference will take place at the Boston Park Plaza eligible, magazines must be based in the U.S., be
Hotel February 23-25. Panels, performances, work- primarily literary in nature, have published eight or
shops, roundtables, readings and exhibits are part of fewer issues (or are in the process of publishing their
the fun! Special guests include: Minnie Bruce Pratt, firstissue) and have published their first issue no more
Edmund White, Cheryl Clarke, Michael Cunning- than two years prior to application date. To request
ham, Sarah Schulman, Kitty Tsui and Jacqueline guidelines and an application write or call Monte
Woodson. For information call or write OutWrite 6, 29 Postlethwait, Council of Literary Magazines and
Stanhope Street, Bo ston EMA 02116; 617-262-6969. Presses, 154 Christopher Street 3C, New York NY
10014; 212-741-9100, fax 212-741-9112.
April 1996 will mark the first annual National
Poetry Month, a celebration of poetry and its place in
The 8th Gulf Coast Womyn’s Festival will be held American culture. Coordinated by The Academy of
from April 4-7. The women at Camp Sister Spirit (Ovett American Poets, National Poetry Month is an oppor-
MS) invite readers to come and create a Lesbian-Femi- tunity to concentrate promotional efforts around
nist Festival. Please help Sister Spirit make their first poetry, to provide the media with a framework in
land payment which is due the week after the festival. which to cover poetry and to educate the public about
Activities will include: workshops, night stage, how poetry can be enjoyed throughout the year. For
craftwomyn show, raffle, silent auction, southern food more information write Academy of American Poets,
and hospitality. Write: PO Box 12, Ovett MS 39464. 584 Broadway #1208, New York NY 10012. O
January/February 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:27:01 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
By Jenn Tust
Stores Open ing w D ito hw n a T gh ate hre e r iP nr ge s s o f c e al ueb thra ot re sd a 2 n0 d y fe ra ir ens d so f o npublish-
Kay Dushane is starting a mail order business for November 28, at Good Vibrations in San Francisco.
lesbian books in January named OutBack Books. Kay Joani Blank, Carol Queen and Marcy Sheiner were
can be reached at 69 Elk Park Drive, Pine CO 80470; some of the authors present.
303-838-0115. Calyx Books celebrated their 19th anniversary
Katie Ramaci is opening a new age gift store with a “glittering” evening at the Corvallis Arts Cen-
with a women’s theme named Women of Wisdom. ter on October 13. The fourth “Gliterati Soirée” was a
Katie can be reached at 20 Robichau Circle, Stoughton dazzling event with an overflow crowd that cele-
MA 02072. brated with Calyx staff, volunteers and board
Stores Close members. Readings, performances, musical entertain-
ment and a silent auction, where they raised $4,500,
Bona Dea: The Alaska Women’s Bookstore went were all part of the fun!
out of business at the end of November. The owners Press Gang Publishers celebrated their 20th
explained the closing as being the result of a legal anniversary with a gala and a fall book launch on
situation with the leaseholder of the mall where the November 18. Larissa Lai, Marion Douglas and
business was located, which they could not discuss Chrystos were present to do readings and Kiss &
due to legal constraints. The owners didn’t believe Tell did a performance/reading. Refreshments,
that the store could survive a move at this time and so new books and door prizes were part of the
decided to close, though a call has gone out to other celebration.
feminists in the area to find ways to provide commu-
nity services that it lost with the bookstore’s closing.
The growth in chain stores in Anchorage was also
reported to be a contributing factor.
Internet Addresses
Stores Move New Words’ new e-mail address is newwords-
Gualala Books has a new address: 39141 Highway @world.std.com.
One, Gualala CA 95445, their PO Box is still 765. Orlando Books’ new address is orlando@compus-
mart.ab.ca.
Publishers Move
Down There Press has a web site: http:/ /-
Paradigm Publishing's new address is 4461 www.bookfair.com/publishers/downthere/gv and
Mayapan Drive, La Mesa CA 91941; 619-444-3925. Good Vibrations’ site is at http:/ /www.goodvibes.com.
Sybylla Feminist Press has a new address: 247- Press Gang Publishers can now be reached at
251 Flinders Lane, Melbourne Victoria 3000, Australia; pgangpub@portal.ca.
613-9650-2217, fax 613-9650-4175, e-mail chapter- Women En Large’s Web page is at http://www-
@connexus.apana.org.au. .igc.apc.org/BooksinFocus/ (uppercase matters.) O
Volume 18 Number 5
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:27:01 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
By Jenn Tust Awards
The Girls Editorial Board ofNew Moon: The
Back to Press Magazine for Girls and Their Dreams won the Jessie
Cleis Press sent The Case of the Not-So-Nice Nurse by Bernard Wise Woman Award from the Center for
Mabel Maney back to press for a fifth printing of 5,000 Women Policy Studies in October. New Moon was also
copies — bringing the total number in print to 25,000. named the best magazine for Grades 4-6, winning The
The Good Vibrations Guide to Sex, also published by Parent's Choice Foundation 1995 Gold Award.
Cleis, went back to press for a fourth printing of 10,000 Krik? Krak! by Edwidge Danticat (Soho Press) was
copies, bringing its total up to 33,000 in print. a finalist for the 1995 National Book Awards in the
Fiction category. The Fiction judges panel deliberated
on the winner until an hour before the awards dinner,
(y ONEENS) finally settling on Sabbath’s Theater by Philip Roth
(Houghton Mifflin). Tina Rosenberg won in the Non-
COOPERATIVE fiction category with The Haunted Land: Facing Europe's
Ghosts After Communism (Random House).
Marilyn Hacker’s Winter Numbers (W.W. Norton)
Puinting è nion, won the 1995 Lenore Marshall Poetry Prize, an
annual award of $10,000 for the most outstanding
book of poetry published in the U.S. in the previous
year. Winter Numbers was chosen from over 175
submissions.
Labrecque Publishing in San Francisco won the
Benny Award in the category of Electronic Press for
their book UNITY: A Celebration of Gay Games IV and
LAW PRINTING. Stonewall, the top honor in the annual Premier Print
Awards competition of the Printing Industries of
ONTINId H)NVAASNI America.
424 MONTGOMERY S ST. 494 W
Low Prices and Good Work
Are the leading features of this Establishment.
EVERY DESCRIPTION OF Rights Sold
BOO G JOB WORK Rights for Hilary Mullins’ The Cat Came Back
NEBEBATLY EXBOUTRD. (Naiad Press) were sold to Alibaba Verlag (Germany).
Orders from the Country specially attended to. Naiad reports that as of the end of 1995, 43 Naiad
ESTIMATES FURNISHED. titles have been published in the English language in
MRS. L. 0, RICHMOND, ` . Superintendent, other countries and 52 Naiad titles have been pub-
Reprinted in Women in nio Northern lisohedt ihn tehe r Ge rm anl alannguagge, u pluas ga smeatste.ri ng oOf
California 1857-1890 (Capra Press).
January/February 1996 Volume 18 Number 5
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:27:01 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
By Jenn Tust For any of these Sister Vision anthologies, do not
send originals of artwork or photographic negatives.
Sister Vision Press is seeking contributions for Please send hard copy of work on IBM disk with
several anthologies: SASE, if you live outside Canada, send International
For the First International Anthology of Lesbians, Reply Coupon to: Sister Vision Press, PO Box 217,
Bisexuals and Gay Men of African Descent, Sister Vision Station E, Toronto Ontario M6E 4E2.
Press is seeking testimonies, short stories, essays,
photographs, recipes, interviews and poetry... or any Blue Jean Magazine: For Teen Girls Who Dare is a new
other works that speak to your experience(s). Deadline: national magazine for teen girls, by teen girls. Blue Jean
April 30. is multiracial, multicultural, advertising free, and is
Sister Vision Press is also calling all young devoted to publishing what teen girls are thinking,
women of colour to send artwork, photographs, fic- saying and doing. Features include creative works,
tion, prose, essays, interviews, discussions or any daring feats, career profiles, community challenges and
other works that speak to your experience(s) as sistah, entrepreneurial ventures. No dieting tips, make-up
sister, girlfriend, woman. Deadline: May 30. copy or supermodelsin this magazine! Blue Jean accepts
Sister Vision Press wants to hear from heterosex- artwork, poetry, photography, fiction and non-fiction
ual women who have friendships with lesbians and from teen girls across the U.S.. Blue Jean reserves the
lesbians who have friendships with heterosexual right to keep all submissions and to edit as needed. Don’t
women. Write about your experiences as women, as send originals, be sure to include your name, address,
friends, tensions, complications, love, tenderness, af- phone number, school name and age. Send to Blue Jean,
fection, jealousy, passion, sisterhood. Send PO Box 9085E6, RocheTster NY O 14609; 71S6-654-5070.
testimonies, essays, photos, recipes, interviews,
poems, stories. Deadline: September 1, 1996.
Sister Vision Press is calling all women of colour
under the age of 30 to send stories, journal entries, Companion Press (Campy, Vampy, Trampy Movie
poetry, black and white art work on experiences of Quotes) is looking for non-fiction book proposals from
incest and sexual abuse violence for a new anthology. lesbians and gay men on the topics of arts and enter-
Deadline: March 30. tainment, erotica, humor and trivia, leisure activities
For an anthology of works by women of African and quote books. Send queries or proposals to
descent speaking about violence in our lives, Sister Companion Press, PO Box 2575, Laguna Hills CA 92654.
Vision is seeking pieces that speak to our encounters
with sexual harassment, rape, domestic violence, Co-editors Karen X. Tulchinsky and James
sexual abuse, physical violence, sexual violence, vi- Johnstone are accepting works for the second in a
olence against our bodies....Some questions: How series of international anthologies of short fiction by
does your race/class/gender/immigration status lesbians and gay men, Queer View Mirror II: Lesbian &
contribute to violence against Black women? Dead- Gay Short Short Fiction, to be published in the Spring
line: September 1, 1996. of 1997 by Arsenal Pulp Press. Deadline: April 30.
49 January/February 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:27:01 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Editor Karen X. Tulchinsky is also seeking short diaries. To make public what is private. To re-imagine
short fiction (1,000 words or less) for a new anthology the diaries of our time. Maximum: 1500 words. Dead-
of lesbian erotic stories, Hot & Bothered: An Interna- line: February 28. For further guidelines or to send
tional Anthology of Short Short Stories of Lesbian Desire to materials: Fruit, 226 East 7th Street #4a, New York NY
be published in Autumn of 1997 by Arsenal Pulp 10009; fax 212-228-7958, e-mail fruit@echonyc.com. O
Press. Deadline: August 31.
The guy’s version, Quickies: An International
Anthology of Short Short Stories of Gay Male Desire , will Selling My Store, continued from page 45.
be edited by James Johnstone and be published in be a woman or two like myself who live simply and
Autumn 1997 also by Arsenal Pulp Press. Deadline: have enough savings that they won’t need to make a
August 31. lot of money. I’ve never taken credit cards and I under-
TEPAS stand they can increase sales by 20% - 30%, so that's a
possibility. There are possibilities to increase the
income, but as Carol Seajay said to me last year, there's
For any of these anthologies, send a self ad- not enough income in the business for it to buy itself.
dressed envelope with an International Reply Coupon I hope I can find a way. I'm curious to see how all this
(Canadians send SASE) to: the title of anthology you unfolds over the next year. It probably won’t look
want to send to at 1036 Odlum Drive, Vancouver BC anything like I imagine now.
V5L 3L6 Canada; e-mail: jamescj@descon.mlnet.com. My big worry at this point is not about selling the
Sing Heavenly Muse's theme for the next issue is store, but rather, how I will live without it? I plan to
“Womenstory: Memoir” and they are looking for lyrical move to the East coast and I know one woman in
accounts of personal experience told as creative nonfic- Connecticut. That’s it. I don't even know for sure
tion. Deadline is March 31. Special guidelines: author’s where I will move, but I'm concerned about homo-
name should not be placed anywhere on the manu- phobia and small-mindedness in the small, rural
script, attach a cover sheet with name, address and title places I consider. I'm scared of being alone with no
of the work, title should also appear on each page, 5,000 family and friends or store to provide me with some-
words maximum. Send to Sing Heavenly Muse! thing to do, a place to go and be appreciated, to feel
Women’s Building, 550 Rice Street, St. Paul MN 55103. needed and valued.
I feel like the Fool card in the tarot, except I'm not
Wanted: Short stories by lesbian writers for an nearly so carefree or baggage-free! I hope that will
anthology to be edited by Irene Zahava and published come and I can really enjoy myself. I have never sold
by the Crossing Press in 1997. Theme: explorations of a business before so I need to learn a few things. I had
romantic love between women — from crushes and never run a bookstore either and I learned without
flirtations to enduring relationships; from the imme- much difficulty. I know there will be tons of details to
diacy of erotic lust to the dailiness of laundry and work out as I extract myself from every little niche and
cooking. Deadline: March 1. All contributors will goddess in my beautiful store. I’m so glad there’s no
receive a flat-fee payment and two copies of the hurry, no timetable to force my grieving or push
anthology upon publication. Send to: Irene Zahava, through a deal that I don't want. I will write a letter
307 West State Street, Ithaca NY 14850; 607-273-4675. similar to this in my Spring Newsletter and hopefully
some woman will jump at the chance to own this store
For issue number 3, Fruit is seeking diary extracts, and create her own vision from it. The energy is
journal musings, unpublished letters, private notes, moving. The truth is out of my mouth and out of the
reflections on archival diaries, a look back at one’s bag. Selling is not a secret, but I don’t anticipate much
earlier self-in-formation, first drawings, songs never action until this Spring. In the meantime, I will journey
recorded, sketches for a film, fake diaries, doctored through the Winter darkness, sweeping out more of
diaries, a lover’s imagined diaries, the diaries that will my bugs and baggage and hopefully freeing me to
never exist, political diaries, cyber diaries, etc. Fruit’s moare full y pjaroticipuate irn thne viseion ywork! ah ead . WQhat
goal: to re-examine the form, content and role of
January/February 1996 50
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:27:01 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
AUDIO e VIDEO e CD-ROM
ELECTRONIC BOOKS
By Dorothy Holland issues. ($10.95, 1-56455-327-2.) Harriet Lerner on
Mothers and Daughters offers a conversation for
Here’s an assorted mix of non-print media that’s women seeking to better understand the mysteries of
appropriate for our audience. To start off, there's a mother-daughter bonds. ($10.95, 1-56455-329-9.)
mailing list you “oughta” know about if you have Harriet Lerner on Intimacy confronts cherished
access to the Internet. It’s “devoted to an exchange of myths about women and intimacy and offers prac-
information and discussion among the staffs of tical guidelines for fostering maturity and passion
lesbian and gay [men’s] bookstores and giftshops.” in your most important relationships. ($10.95, 1-
Deacon Maccubbin, president of Lambda Rising 56455-331-0.) Sounds True Audio, 90-minute tapes.
Bookstores, is the organizer, so it tends to be more gay Distributed by Ingram.
male-oriented than feminist and lesbian, but it still has
a lot of useful information — and not so many posts
as to flood your mailbox. To subscribe, send an e-mail
to Majordomo@vector.casti.com, with the message
“subscribe glb-bookshops.” Myths for the Future by Jean Houston paints a
New Media v ui ns ii oo nn ao rf e a s o p wo ns s i ab nle d f wu et u r see e w th he er e u lt th ime a ts ee e d cs o n o nf e c tm ioy ns stic
I finally found another CD-ROM title that I really between all things. Shows how to create a more hu-
like: Conduct Unbecoming: Gays and Lesbians in mane, enlightened destiny for us all. $16.95, 2
the U.S. Military by Randy Shilts. I enjoyed wander- cassettes, 2 hours, 1-56455-323-X, Sounds True Audio.
ing through this title. It was easy to install, no Distributed by Ingram.
problems at all. There are video and audio clips of Voices in the Night offers a series of audio tapes
Margarethe Cammermeyer and others, suppressed called A Cancer Companion for women who are
Pentagon reports, ways to contact your government newly diagnosed with cancer. I think this series and
representatives, and a lot of background material not the combined set of six tapes listed below are wonder-
in the book. Highly recommended. Windows and ful resources for women with cancer. The programs
Mac, $39.95, ApolloMedia. Not currently available at are well produced, nicely presented, warm and user-
Ingram (or other distributors). ApolloMedia; 415-552- friendly and there’s no built-in heterosexual
7655, fax 800-408-7655. assumption. Questions and Choices, the first pro-
gram, is a conversational exchange between patients,
Audio Tapes survivors and health care providers that extends a
Harriet Lerner on Anger by Harriet Lerner, a private reservoir of information and comfort during
personal session with the author. Our culture encour- those early roller-coaster days right after diagnosis.
ages and rewards aggressive men, yet when a woman Diagnosis, the second program in the series, provides
shows anger she is shunned, devalued and ridiculed. information on choosing the best treatment options,
Lerner traces the roots of the paradox, teaching support groups, and living day-to-day with the anxi-
women how to get angry, speak up and resolve life ety of having cancer. Answers are provided by both
51
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:27:01 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
health care providers and patients. It also includes a Nicely done. $16.95, 2 cassettes, 2 hours, 0-939643-62-
6, North Word Audio.
and lists for $21.95, 2 cassettes per program. Selu: Seeking the Corn-Mother’s Wisdom by
Early Breast Cancer, a six-tape set, offers practi- Marilou Awiakta, read by the author, is an abridged
cal and emotional support to newly diagnosed version of the book. “Selu, who for Millenia has helped
women and their partners, and suggests ways to con- the Native Peoples, helps us to live in gender balanced
quer fear, take control, root out information, make harmony with each other and the earth. Her wisdom
choices, build support networks for self and family, can help us all in these troubled times.” $16.95, 2
and cope with the impact this disease has on one’s life.
$49.95, 6 cassettes, 61⁄2 hours, 1-896205-02-X. No Ordinary Time, Franklin and Eleanor Roose-
velt: The Home Front in WWII by Doris Kearn
Goodwin, read by Edward Herrman. Perhaps the tape
will be more approachable for timid readers. The book is
wonderful, haven't heard the tape. $25, 4 cassettes, 6
Voices in the Night, Box 24059, 1853 Grant Avenue, hours, abridged, 0-671-53451-3, Simon & Schuster Audio.
Winnipeg, Manitoba R3N 2B1 Canada; 800-268-0009, Other popular current audio tapes are: L Is for
fax 204-885-5357. 40% discount for 5+, shipping paid. Lawless, Sue Grafton ($18, 0-679-42462-8, Random
Also available to purchase for rental. These prices are House Audio); From Potters Field, Patricia Cornwell
U.S. dollars, prices may vary as currencies fluctuate. ($24, 4 cassettes, 0-671-86881-0, Simon & Schuster
Standing on Fishes, told by White Bear Woman, Audio); New Passages, Gail Sheehy ($22.50, 0-679-
music by Ritambhara Tyson, part of the Myth and the 44325-8, Random House Audio); The Hundred Secret
Natural World Series from North Word Audio Press. Senses, Amy Tan ($24.95, 4 cassettes, 0-7871-0565-1,
If storytelling tapes do well for your store, go for it. Dove Audio); Two or Three Things I Know for Sure,
QED
BOOKS
January/February 1996 52
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:27:01 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Dorothy Allison ($9.95, 1 cassette, 90-minutes, 1-56100- and attitudes for lesbians and gay men ($29.95, dis-
879-6, Nova Aŭüdio/Brilliance Audio); When I Am an tributed by Wolfe); Live to Tell, the first lesbian and
Old Woman, I Shall Wear Purple, edited by Sandra K. gay men’s prom in LA ($24.95, distributed by Wolfe);
Martz, read by Ellen Burstyn and CCH Pounder Positive 20s, people living positively with HIV, young
($16.95, 2 cassettes, 3 hours, 0-944993-99-0, Audio Lit- adult ($24.95, distributed by Wolfe); Even Cowgirls
erature). Distributed by Ingram. Get the Blues will be back in January ($19.95, distrib-
uted by Wolfe); and a Lily Three Pack, which includes
three Lily Tomlin favorites, Search for Signs, Ernestine,
and Appearing Nightly, in a nicely done gift box
($59.95, distributed by Wolfe).
Music Reclaiming the Sisterhood: Exploring What It
Not usually my beat, but my North Word sales Means to Be a Black Canadian Woman documents
rep recommended several CDs which I have really the Toronto Black Women’s Conference (York Univer-
enjoyed. They're by women and are a nice change for sity, June 24-26, 1994) with clips from speakers and
listening. Piano, new age sound are part of the series panels exploring what it means to be Black in the
Music Inspired by Nature. Jeanne Cotter has Piano predominately white country of Canada. $12 whole-
From the Heartland: Solo Grand Piano (Cassette sale, prepaid, shipping included. Available from
#2110, CD #2111); Ellen Bennett has Return to Guerrilla TV Productions, 9166 Winthrop, Detroit MI
Autumn: Piano/Ensemble (Cassette #2093, CD 48238; 313-508-7677.
#2094); Tia Costas has Shades of the Day: Solo Piano Devotion, from Northern Arts Entertainment/
(Cassette #2095, CD #2096); $9.95 Cassette, $15.95 CD. Naiad Press, based on an original story by Arlene
Distributed by North Word, PO Box 1360, Minocqua Battishell, screenplay and novel by Mindy Kaplan. I
WI 54548; 800-336-6398. haven't seen it, can't tell you a thing! Available Febru-
ary 6. $69.95, 94-minutes, 1-56280-124-4. Distributed
Video by Wolfe, Naiad.
Seems to me that lesbian videos are springing up
all over! New this winter are: The Incredibly True
Adventure of 2 Girls in Love ($89.95, distributed by
Wolfe, Naiad); Wigstock, the 10th anniversary of
“Woodstock in Drag,” an entertaining documentary,
probably more a men’s piece ($89.95, distributed by
Wolfe, Naiad); Jeffery, “Life is an adventure when one
is sure and the other is positive,” features Sigourney
Weaver, Olympia Dukakis and more... don’t let the
maleness stop you — straight and lesbian folks have
been really enjoying this ($89.95, distributed by Wolfe,
Naiad); Best Defense, available in March, is the first
in a series of three videos on self-defense techniques
Drawing by Agusta
Agustsson, From The 96
Lunar Calendar (Luna Press).
53 January/February 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:27:01 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsBy Roz Warren
The funniest thing about One Hundred and One
Super Uses for Tampon Applicators by Lori Katz and
Barbara Meyer is the title. The cover is catchy as well
— the book is a little square tome that mimics the color
and shape of a tampon box, and it even has a little Another book with a cute title is Newt Gingrich’s
tampon string attached to mark one’s place. Though Bedtime Stories for Orphans, by Cathy Crimmins and
the clever packaging will no doubt sell a few as gag Tom Maeder, a collection of classic fairy tales and nur-
gifts, the cartoons inside don’t really measure up. sery rhymes retold the way Newtie might tell them
Most of the ideas are pretty uninspired and the (“I've Been Tearing Down the Amtrak,” “Where Has
cartoons are creepy-looking. This is a shame because, Genny Flowers Gone?” etc.). While the sly title will help
as the authors warn, “Scientists believe in the year sell this book, it would have been funnier had the
2000 there will be more tampon applicators than authors taken a political stance rather than trying to
people.” Proposed uses for recycling cast-off tampon mock (and not truly offend) both Republicans and
applicators include forming them into: finger pup- Democrats. $9.95 pb, 0-7871-0578-3, Dove Books.
pets, cigarette holders, wedding bands, Hanukah We need never worry about Nicole Hollander, the
menorahs, Nativity scenes, and my favorite, the sug- creator of the feminist comic strip “Sylvia,” failing to
gestion that you save up a bunch and build your own take a political stance. Her latest book Female Prob-
model of the Starship Enterprise. (After all, they've lems: An Unhelpful Guide is sure to be popular. It
already boldly gone where...oh never mind.) $9.95 pb, contains both cartoons and essays on topics such as
0-9641907-0-2, High Stress Press. “How to Make Your Trip to the Gynecologist More
Fun” and “Why It’s Okay to Identify with the Evil
Queen Rather than Snow White.” $9.95 pb, Dell.
And, while I haven’t been able to get my hands on
a review copy yet, I hear that the humor book by popu-
lar comic Ellen (“I'm not a bookstore owner but I play
one on television”) Degeneres is also doing incredibly
well. (It's published by Bantam and sells for $19.95 cl. I
think it’s called “My Closet...and I Do Have One”) (Or
something like that...).
Roz Warren is the owner of Laugh Lines Press,
publisher of The Butches of Madison County by Ellen
Orleans. For a free bookseller’s copy of Butches e-mail Roz
atB NaukleaN ew t@CAOyL.cnomw ory ddrop hePr Aa l in e 1 at9 P0O 0 Bo4x . 2 5 9,o
January/February 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:27:01 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
By Suzanne increases your investment risk if it doesn’t sell; two, I
Two Sisters Bookshop, Menlo Park CA don't have counter space or floor space for racks. I put
our incense in brass buckets which hold a lot more, but
Incense and candles are popular sidelines in my make it more difficult to see the selection. I also put
store. We've carried them since we opened and have incense on bookshelves that I've commandeered from
quadrupled our inventory over the years. They both discontinued book categories. This works well for me.
sell year round but best through the dark season,
September through March. This is especially true for SN eÀÅ
candles. We have a strong Goddess and metaphysical
focus, which affects the sales of these two products —
every other woman who comes in is either a witch or Good incense sells without me having to do a
deeply involved with her spiritual life and uses can- thing. I bought an unknown brand called Essential
dles in personal and group rituals and ceremony, and Essences made by Matchless Gifts, an incense distrib-
incense, particularly sage, for cleansing rituals. Many utor. We didn’t burn it in the store but it sold well
of us have adopted the Native American belief that immediately. I don’t like the distributor's focus on
smoke from burning sage is cleansing and carries your money and thé way he seems to squeeze his suppliers
prayers to She who answers prayers! to get super low prices. He sells COD only, but his
We carry Desert Sage loose in bags that retail for service is good and his Essential Essence incense is not
$4 and in wands for $1.50. Other varieties of sage are available elsewhere. So if you need low prices, a good
string-wrapped in bundles that vary in size from 2"/$1 product line and efficient handling, I recommend him.
to 7"/$6. There are hundreds of different varieties of I also buy the small desert sage wands from him that
sage. Desert Sage is the strongest and most popular in retail for $1.50. They are our most popular sage sticks.
my store, but other varieties sell well too. Sometimes Another high quality incense is AIRS. Fabulous
they are blended Swith lavendeer, copal, cedar and sweet smell, burns clean and women love it. Try all their
grass, etc. Lavender is the most popular. varieties — our favorites are Lavender, Cinnamon,
Ocean and Star Sandalwood.
Burning incense in your store will sell it, but I like
to keep burning to a minimum because of women’s
sensitivities to scents. I won't carry scented candles if
Several years ago I started expanding our incense. they aren't wrapped, for the same reason. Our store
There is a lot available, so I got samples, placed small smells lovely, but I don’t want to overwhelm customers.
orders and waited to see what sold. I tried many brands. Along with incenses I recommend you carry
Incense is not particularly expensive, but I find it a ashcatchers and charcoal to burn fine herbs, sages and
challenge to display in my store. Almost all brands resins. The wood ashcatchers are inexpensive and nec-
come with custom racks that hold their product. Two essary to keep incense ash from getting all over. All
drawbacks here: one, if you're not sure about the these supplies are inexpensive and fit easily on shelves.
incense, those racks carry an awful lot of product that It’s fun to try new incenses, holders and resins.
55 January/February 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:27:01 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Candles are more expensive to get into. We carry Two Sisters Candle Co., a distributor in California.
10" tapers in about 20 colors — necessary for ritual and They are messy to burn, but are wonderfully scented
ceremony work. The tapers from Coyote Found are and magical. We have sold the candles with stones and
lovely, well-made, long-burning clean candles, but crystals in them, but they didn’t do well and I didn’t
they have one drawback: they don’t contain chemical like the low quality paraffin look about them.
barriers to prevent fading from light (daylight or Aromatherapy candles have sold well in the past. You
fluorescent), so if they don’t sell quickly, some colors can buy good quality ones from Rio Grande. We buy
will fade and we can’t sell them. So I order conserva- aroma votives from Eye of the Day/Ravenwood,
tively and we hang towels over them each night to witchy company! Prosperity and Relaxing blends in
keep our 24-hour lights from further stripping their candles, oils and herb pillows are always the most
bco ul to r i. ’sIt ’s fb ie nen lw yo r at h ai ct rto nm e t io pav aro tid t lh are bch rae nm di .c a Wls, popular in ourS fast-paNced, money-ceentered Bay Area.
t d e it e f t o i t h s ic u e
carry beeswax tapers Which are expensive and don’t
sell quickly. We also sell many votive candles, in boxes
of 36 (white only) as well as individually. We carry
both functional and decorative votive holders. Most Candles need to be shipped with an eye to the
candle companies also sell holders. weather (freezing and high heat damage them), so I
Floating candles are popular here, maybe due to recommend you buy candles locally if possible. There
all the California hot tubs, but you can float them as a is candle competition everywhere, which may deter-
centerpiece or in your bathtub and they really work. mine what types you carry. Our customers appreciate
We get them from Luminart and from Eye of the Day / the higher priced, higher quality, long-burning can-
Ravenwood. dles we stock rather than the cheapies at the local
We carry the very popular herbal candles made grocery or import chains. Decisions, decisions. One of
by Consortium in Michigan, but we buy them through the best ones I made was to carry the cheap mini
SOO-TEES-GAY candles from Eye of the Day/Ravenwood. They're
perfect for meditation and personal ritual. We sell tons
of them. They burn for exactly two hours — you could
set your watch by them. We carry every color and
bought the plastic display, which makes displaying
them a breeze. We sell them for .25 each or 5/$1.
Here are some West Coast sources for candles and
incense:
AIRS Incense Co. — 800-733-2477, Watsonville
CATALOG AND CA. Great high quality incense.
ESALE PRICES Coyote Found Candles — 800-788-4142, Port
Townsend WA. Net 10 only.
Eye of the Day/Ravenwood — 800-433-7313,
Boulder CO. Good-hearted owner.
Luminart — 800-226-3533, Redway CA. High
quality candles and service .
Matchless Gifts — 800-424-4466, Laguna Niguel,
CA. COD full-line incense and supplies.
Rio Grande Candles — 800-999-6946, Albuquer-
que NM. Scented candle pots, good quality.
Two Sisters Candle Co. — 818-762-9854, Toluca
OTHER SELIR T DESIGNS Lake CA. Popular herbal candles.
Spirit Dancer Sage — 520-282-7536, Sedona AZ.
Good quality sage but high prices. O
January/February 1996 56
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:27:01 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
By Nan Cinnater Do plain old British mysteries count as interna-
Now Voyager, Provincetown, MA tional? In any case, Ruth Rendell's recent novel in her
Inspector Wexford series is a surprise: a thorough and
I don't have too much to report on the interna- thoughtful examination of racism in middle-class
tional front, but in deference to our theme I'll begin English society. Wexford embodies many of the traits
with a few international mysteries. Murder on a that gave liberalism a bad name; he’s stodgy, paternal-
Kibbutz, Batya Gur’s third book, is now out in trade istic, and painfully guilty, though good-hearted. This
paperback, and is certainly worth the attention of fem- makes his newly raised consciousness a bit hard to take,
inist booksellers. Israeli author Gur writes intelligent, but Rendel], as always, knows exactly what she’s doing
literate whodunits that have been bestsellers in Israel ($23 cl, 0-517-70073-5, Crown). There’s also a new hard-
and are popular in translation in the U.S. Her detective cover from Rendell writing as Barbara Vine: The
is Michael Ohayon, head of the Israeli equivalent of Brimstone Wedding. Vine’s psychological studies are
Scotland Yard. The New York Times said that Murder on often about female relationships; in this one, according
a Kibbutz “reflects earthshaking political and ideolog- to catalog copy, a dignified woman dying in an English
ical changes transforming kibbutz society” ($10 pb, nursing home reveals the secrets of her erotic past to her
0-06-092654-6, Harper). In Gur’s previous books, both young caretaker ($24 cl, 0-517-70339-4, Harmony). Vine’s
in trade paper, she took on psychotherapy (The Satur- new paperback looks to be of less interest to feminist
day Morning Murder, 0-06-099508-4, Harper) and readers. In No Night Is Too Long, a man who thought
academia (A Literary Murder, 0-06-092548-5, Harper). he got away with murder off the Alaska coast starts to
The very first Edgar Award-winner for best mys- get anonymous letters showing detailed knowledge of
tery novel, Beat Not the Bones by Charlotte Jay, takes the murder ($5.99 pb, 0-451-40634-6, Onyx).
place in Papua, New Guinea. Originally published in Cheers to Spinsters Ink for getting the U.S. rights to
1953, it has recently been reissued by Soho Press. A Common Murder by British writer Val McDermid. Al-
young Australian widow comes to New Guinea to though some of McDermid’s books have been
look into the suspicious suicide of her husband, a published here in hardcover, this is the first U.S. paper-
colonial administrator. As she investigates his death, back, and it’s perfect for a feminist press. Lesbian
she also gradually loses her naivete about colonial reporter Lindsay Gordon goes to bat for an ex-lover
relations and the Europeans’ “protection” of aborigi- accused of murdering a counter-demonstrator at a
nal peoples. $11 pb, 1-56947-047-2, Soho Press. women’s peace camp ($10.95 pb,
1-883523-08-7). McDermid’s non-
series by Donna Leon about the commisario of police lesbian sleuth, Manchester
in Venice, Italy. In her latest paperback, Dressed for private eye Kate Brannigan,
Death, the police take special notice of the murder of
a transvestite when he’s identified as the director of new hardcover Clean Break,
the Bank of Verona. $4.99, 0-06-109418-8, Harper. favorably reviewed in The New
Illustrations by Yani Batteau from The Dyke Detector, York Times Crime column ($20 cl,
Paradigm Publishing. no ISBN, Scribner).
57 January/February 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:27:01 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Among the current crop of U.S. mysteries, here nevertheless a sophisticated British trifle about sex, gen-
are some best bets. Speak Daggers to Her by Rose- der, and real estate tax law. $4.99 pb, 0-440-21233-2, Dell.
mary Edghill introduces Bast, a practicing witch living Night Train to Memphis is the unlikely title of
in Manhattan who investigates a friend’s death. It Elizabeth Peters’ new mystery featuring Vicky Bliss, a
comes highly recommended elsewhere in FBN, and museum curator based in Munich. Here most of the
the cover has blurbs by Marion Zimmer Bradley action takes place on a cruise up the Nile, as Peters
(front) and Margot Adler (back). I'd say it’s a must- puts her trademark Egyptology
carry ($4.99 pb, 0-812-53438-7, Tor). The sequel, Book to use and Vicky Bliss foils a rob-
of Moons, is now out in hardcover ($20.95 cl, 0-312- bery at the Cairo Museum ($5.99
85605-9, Tor). The Beekeeper’s Apprentice, Laurie R. pb, 0-446-60248-5, Mysterious
King’s superb Sherlock Holmes pastiche, is out in Press). All of Peters’ work falls
paper at last. This is the Holmes story feminist fans into the “guilty pleasures” cate-
have been waiting for, with a wonderful, vivid, smart- gory, as it’s lightweight, comic/
as-a-Whip adolescent heroine ($5.50 pb, 0-553-57165-6, romantic entertainment, but at
Bantam). This should also give a boost to sales of the least her feminist sympathies are
hardcover sequel, A Monstrous Regiment of Women strong and explicit. (Catalog copy says the author has
($22.95 cl, 0-312-13565-3, St. Martin’s). founded a scholarship for minority women mystery
Newly out in paper is An Imperfect Spy by writers.) Night Train to Memphis is one of Peters’
Amanda Cross, a surefire seller and a very angry, very contemporary adventures, which aren't quite as sharp
political look at the male-dominated hierarchies of big — and don't sell as well — as her Victorian series
universities ($5.99 pb, 0-345-39005-9, Ballantine). Mrs. about archaeologist Amelia Peabody. If you want to
Pollifax is back in Dorothy Gilman’s latest paperback give Peters a try, best to start with a recent Amelia
about the sexagenarian spy, Mrs. Pollifax Pursued Peabody adventure, The Snake, the Crocodile, and
($5.99 pb, 0-449-14956-0, Fawcett). A Ceremonial the Dog ($5.99 pb, 0-446-36478-9, Warner) or The Last
Death by B.J. Oliphant involves curmudgeonly Camel Died at Noon ($5.99 pb, 0-446-36338-3,
rancher Shirley McClintock in the death of a New Age Warner). The new hardcover in the Amelia Peabody
healer ($5.99 pb, 0-449-14897-1, Fawcett). series, The Hippotamus Pool, is due out in April
Some total unknowns you may want to try: Hear- ($22.95 cl, 0-446-51833-6, Warner).
ing Faces, a paperback original by Dotty Sohl about a Forthcoming paperbacks to watch for include
blind former schoolteacher who solves a murder with The Strange Files of Fremont Jones by Dianne Day, a
the help of her ten-year-old neighbor ($4.99 pb, 0-06- romp through turn-of-the-century San Francisco with
104340-0, Harper); Tensleep by Sarah Andrews, a strong, feminist heroine, a “typewriter” who gets
featuring Em Hansen, the only woman working on a involved in the strange doings of her clients. Great
Wyoming oil rig when murder strikes ($4.99 pb, 0-451- cover art and a good blurb from Margaret Maron
18606-0); North of Montana by April Smith, a should ensure strong sales ($4.99 pb, 0-553-56921-X,
much-hyped first novel about a woman FBI agent Bantam, February). Linda Barnes’ Hardware brings
with a case involving a Hollywood doc and illegal Boston PI. and part-time cabdriver Carlotta Carlyle
drugs ($6.99 pb, 0-449-22502-X, Fawcett); Guilt by into the computer age ($5.99 pb, 0-440-21223-5, Dell,
Association by Susan R. Sloan, psy- March). Murder in a Hot Flash by Marlys Millhiser
chological suspense about a woman sequel to Death of the Office Witch, focuses on Edwina
confronting her rapist ($5.99 pb, 0-446- Greene, environmentally conscious menopausal mom
60306-6, Warner). to Hollywood agent Charlie Greene. The title should
Dell has re-issued Sarah sell it ($5.95 pb, 0-14-025138-3, Penguin, March).
Caudwell’s The Shortest Way to Beauty Dies by Melodie Johnson Howe marks the
Hades, with cover art by Edward Gorey return of Claire Conrad and Maggie Hill, a detecting
to match her other two books. Not duo with very interesting chemistry in the classical
nearly as strong as her comic master- style (see Nero Wolfe and Archie Goodwin). Here they
piece, Thus Was Adonis Murdered, this is See Mysteries, page 111.
January/February 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:27:01 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
<A
By Susanna Sturgis with the past to achieve (they hope) beneficial results,
and the “past” is that of San Francisco. Here, as the
Writing one of these columns is like tossing a title suggests, it’s the (eighteen) nineties, and a major
bottle into the future with a message in it: by the time themeŻis the treatment of women, particularly Chinese
you read these words, some of them may be out of women. The 25th-century protagonist, Zhu Wong,
date. (And some of the books listed below may be out feels herself a misfit in her future China.
of print, but we won't go in to that.) Just out in paperback, Sheri S. Tepper’s Shadow’s
After eleven years, the time has come for me to End ($5.99, ISBN n/a) bears a basic feminist message:
pass this column on. Now that I'm finally writing “(Hu)mankind Über Alles” is a despicable, ultimately
my first novel, my reading is (a) greatly diminished, dead-end doctrine, and the more ferociously men
and (b) closely related to my writing. The next FBN cling to their privileges, the more women suffer. For a
f/sf columnist should be familiar with feminist hundred years, attempts to discover the force behind
bookselling; knowledgeable, or passionately curi- the annihilation of life on all but one of a group of
ous, about women’s fantasy and science fiction; and planets have been doomed. The exception, Dinadh, is
able to turn in a column reasonably close to deadline populated by a ritual-bound, male-dominant society.
six times a year. If you're interested, contact Carol at Saluez, a young woman mutilated in one of these
FBN or me at (508) 693-7109, e-mail: S.Sturgis2- rituals, is the main narrator. When the mysterious
@genie.geis.com. force returns, she teams up with a brilliant linguist,
her apparently retarded child, his long-absent father,
ACE and several other outcasts to stop it. Like most of
Felicity Fortune, the modern-day fairy god- Tepper’s novels, this is intriguing, frustrating, and
mother who manifested in Seattle in Elizabeth Ann worth carrying.
Scarborough’s The Godmothers ($5.99, 0-441-00269-
2), takes on an unlikely apprentice in (you guessed
it) The Godmother’s Apprentice ($19.95 cl, 0-441-
00252-8). The candidate is one Snohomish Quantrill,
the teenage daughter of a rock star. Much of the Linda Nagata garnered impressive accolades
action takes place in Ireland. Scarborough, whose for her first novel, The Bohr Maker, and her second,
The Healer's War won the Nebula Award, is a fine Tech-Heaven ($4.99, 0-553-56926-0), is receiving at
writer and these books are both fun and socially least comparable acclaim. Like the earlier book, this
satirical. deals with the (very topical!) issue of how govern-
ments regulate new technologies, in this case cryonic
BANTAM SPECTRA suspension: freezing mortally injured humans for
Lisa Mason's The Golden Nineties ($12.95 pb, later repair. The heated, increasingly violent debate
0-553-37331-5) is doubly related to her Summer of Love: plays out over several decades, which also see the
part of it is set in the 25th century of Summer's Chiron building of the first space colonies and an attempt to
Cat's Eye in Draco, whence time travelers meddle establish a colony on Mars.
Volume 18 Number 5 59 January/February 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:27:01 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
DAW BOOKS both with f/sf and with lit crit, please do. With
Just out from DAW is a likely trio indeed. Eye of someone proclaiming every other day the death of
the Daemon ($5.50, 0-88677-673-2) is the first novel of the written word and with many bookstores being
Camille Bacon-Smith, whom you may know as author submerged in generic dreck that used to be sold only
of Enterprising Women, an intriguing study of women’s in bus stations, these essays and Sarah Lefanu’s
role in a particular form of popular culture and myth- excellent introduction are a shot in the arm and a
making: Star Trek and other TV fandom (tp, kick in the butt. The best way to show that reading
0-8122-1379-3, University of Pennsylvania Press). is important is to take fiction seriously, and this Russ
Trying to find her kidnapped half-brother, Marnie does, with passion, intelligence, courage and a
Simpson encounters a strange firm of private investi- wicked sense of humor. Treat yourself!
gators (“cases involving the occult handled with
discretion”) and the even stranger truth about her aas
brother’s captors.
ning P sula ci cn el sy s oin ft e Mnd ae rd io n t o Z ic map mit ea rl iz Be r ao dn l e yth ’se M lo isn tg s- r ou fn- PENGUIN/ROC
Avalon, Return To Avalon ($5.99, 0-88677-679-1), Russell Letson’s recent Locus review easily per-
edited by Jennifer Roberson, contains 20 stories suaded me that I'd overlooked Testament ($5.99,
drawing on the same historical and mythic back- 0-451-45459-6) by Valerie J. Freireich, which came
ground as Mists. Contributors include Katharine out in July 1995. On Testament personal memories
Kerr, Judith Tarr, Kate Elliot, Diana L. Paxson and are inheritable, but only through women, resulting,
Roberson herself. Letson writes, “in a society that is both matrilineal
Finally, Jo Clayton's Shadowsong trilogy con- and matriarchal: since only memories of one’s
cludes with Crystal Heart ($5.99, 0-88677-674-0). The female ancestors are accessible, it is the experiences
empath Shadith, employed by a detective agency, is and attitudes of women that guide the culture. Men
assigned a mission she can’t in good conscience com- inherit but do not transmit memories, and ...remain
plete: to rescue an abducted creature and return it to in the numerical minority, since women prefer to
people who want to destroy it. have daughters in order to achieve a kind of immor-
tality.” The story focuses on several outsiders within
the society. It’s a sequel to Becoming Human but can
3 stand on its own.
Here’s one publisher that doesn’t shy away from
HARPERPRISM a feminist audience: on the cover of Gael Baudino’s
“Erotic tales of unearthly love”? A “hauntingly The Dove Looked In ($5.99, 0-451-45497-9) it says, in
seductive collection”? “A rapture that outlives the nice big type, “An epic battle between the power of the
flesh”? It could be heaven or it could be hell. Given Goddess and the magic of a high priest.” Just released,
that Killing Me Softly ($12 tp, 0-06-105328-7) was this follows O Greenest Branch! ($5.50, 0-451-45449-9)
edited by Gardner Dozois and that it includes stories in the Water! series. The drought-stricken, tradition-
by Ursula K. LeGuin, Nancy Kress, Mary Rosenblum, bound Three Kingdoms hope for aid from the
Maureen F. McHugh, Pat Cadigan and others (15 Religious States of America, while the underestimated
stories, eight by women, seven by men), l'll place my women hatch their own plans. Feminist, witty, and not
bets on heaven. friendly to religious fanatics.
INDIANA UNIVERSITY PRESS TOR BOOKS
Since mentioning Joanna Russ’s To Write Like a Essential info for Suzy McKee Charnas’s The
Woman: Essays in Feminism and Science Fiction Furies: $5.99, 0-812-54819-1. I've said it before, and l'll
($12.95 tp, 0-253-20983-8) in my last column, I’ve say it again: this ranks among the best, most important
been wallowing in it and am about to review it for feminist novels of the last 25 years, even independent
Sojourner. If you aren't carrying it and shelving it See Science Fiction, page 62.
January/February 1996 60
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:27:01 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsBOOks in Canada:
BO RD
By Alexandra Wilson that help the writer define who she is.” (C$12.95 pb,
Women in Print/Vancouver 0-88922-355-6.) Distributed by General Distribution
Services.
Social commentary seems to be the theme of this More social commentary comes from Between the
month’s titles. We have books questioning the way we Lines this fall. In Whose Brave New World, Ontario
care for each other, poetry that asks hard questions activist and writer on women and technology, Heather
about the world we live in, and a play that pokes fun Menzies, questions the perceived inevitability of infor-
at the way we define family. On top of that are several mation technology. She argues persuasively that we
new poets and a couple of young adult (YA) novels have real choices and need to actively participate in the
with strong female characters. Read on... current debates. Her clear-sighted writing “transcends
the fantasyland thinking that masks a polarizing soci-
ety.” C$18.95 pb, 1-896357-02-4; C$35.95 cl, -03-2,
Between the Lines. Distributed in the U.S. by Left Bank
Distribution, 4142 Brooklyn NE #201, Seattle WA
From TalonBooks in Vancouver come two books 98105; 206-632-5870.
that question contemporary life in very different Next, a funny and poignant play from Blizzard
ways. Jill Van Dyck, active in anti-poverty and child Publishing looks at the modern family. Recent Pulit-
welfare groups for 20 years, has written a very acces- zer Prize-winning author Carol Shields (The Stone
sible book on the culture of poverty. Bleeding to Diaries) has teamed up with her daughter, Catherine,
Death argues that all current attempts to reform to write a gently challenging play. Fashion, Power,
social security systems in the industrialized world Guilt and the Charity of Families looks at the peo-
perpetuate the ideology of charity. A timely and ple, not the prescribed roles or labels, within
thought-provoking book on Canadian — and west- families. (C$10.95 pb, 0-921368-59-3.) Also from Bliz-
ern — social programs. (C$17.95 pb, 0-88922-362-9.) zard, under the Bain and Cox imprint, is a new YA
Then, through vibrant poetry, Helen Potrebenko’s novel by award-winning writer Carol Matas. The
strong voice speaks loudly for women and working Primrose Path explores the dark side of a charis-
people. Riding Home is a “bunch of poems” that, matic leader through the eyes of a teenaged woman.
among other things, offers a catalogue of embarrass- (C$9.95 pb, 0-921368-55-0.) Distributed by General
ing questions about contemporary life. (C$13.95 pb, Distribution Services.
0-88922-356-4, available from General Distribution
Services prior to January 1996, available from
InBook thereafter.) On a different theme is Lola sx
Lemire Tostevin’s most recent collection, Car-
touches, a book of poetry / journal entries formed in Women of the Klondike by Frances Backhouse
an effort to give meaning to events which may or may takes a look at the women of the gold rush: entrepre-
not have literally happened. The described moments neurs, doctors, nuns, nurses and journalists as well
are hieroglyphs, or “small cartouches and amulets as mythical prostitutes and dance hall girls. Through
61 January/February 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:27:01 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
archival documents, newspaper accounts and per- Science Fiction, continued from page 60.
sonal interviews, Backhouse explores the lives and of its predecessors, Walk to the End of the World and
attitudes of individual women as well as the roles of Motherlines.
these women in society. Fascinating reading. Also new in paperback: Far lighter but definitely
C$16.95 pb, 1-55110-375-3, Whitecap Books. Distrib- an asset to feminist bookstore shelves is Rosemary
uted in the U.S. by Graphic Arts Center Publishing, Edghill’s Speak Daggers to Her ($4.99, 0-812-53438-7).
PO Box 10306, Portland OR 97210; 800-452-3032 and In solving the mystery, Bast — graphic designer and
by Pacific Pipeline. wiccan priestess — provides a knowledgeable and good-
From Beach Holme Publishers I have two collec- humored tour of New York’s neo-pagan community.
tions of poetry and one YA novel. The Seed Jar is And Maureen F. McHugh’s second novel (after
Margaret Blackwoodď’s first solo collection. The po- the Lammy and Tiptree Award-winning China Moun-
etry speaks of family and other human relationships tain Zhang), is Half the Day Is Night ($5.99,
and is rich with the atmosphere of the Canadian 0-812-52410-1). In my not-so-humble opinion (that’s
west coast. (C$8.95 pb, 0-88878-366-3.) Somewhere IMNSHO for you online junkies!), the underwater city
Falling is Allison Grayhurst’s second collection of in this one is far more interesting than the main char-
intimate and richly detailed poetry. The poems are acters or the plot. As I overheard one bookseller say at
linked by the theme of searching and have a dream- Gaylaxicon ‘94, “It has no content.” This puzzled me,
like flavour. (C$11.95 pb, 0-88878-365-5.) Finally, a till I grasped that “content” means “gay content.” No
sensitive portrayal of a young woman's life after the especially feminist angle either.
death of her mother by Ginny Russell. Step-by-Step Coming in February is Kathleen Ann Goonan’s
is a YA novel about loss and moving on, set in south- second sf novel, The Bones of Time ($23.95 cl, 0-312-
western British Columbia. (C$8.95 pb, 85916-3). The bones are those of Kamehameha, greatest
0-88878-364-7.) Beach Holme Publishers, 4252 Com- of the Hawaiian kings. Already out in paper is
merce Circle, Victoria BC V8Z 4M2; 604-727-6514, Goonan’s widely, wildly acclaimed first novel, Queen
fax 604-727-6418. City Jazz ($5.99, 0-812-53626-6), which cyberpunk
instigator William Gibson called “an unforgettable
vision of America transfigured by a new and utterly
tas apocalyptic technology.” Once it ventured out of the
austere countryside, I found it too weird to follow.
And finally, four titles from Thistledown Press. Someone else will haAve to tell me if it’s feminist or not.
Two of the stories in Bernice Friesen’s The Seasons
are Horses have already won Saskatchewan Writers
Guild Awards. This first collection of fiction is char-
acterized by truly fine and detailed storytelling.
(C$12.95 pb, 1-895449-40-5.) The short stories in WARNER/ASPECT
Blow the Moon Out by Judy Berlyne McCrosky Like all Marion Zimmer Bradley anthologies,
explore the conflict between our need to conform The Best of Marion Zimmer Bradley’s Fantasy
with society and our need to retain our individuality. Magazine ($5.99, 0-446-60192-6) features writing by
(C$13 pb, 1-895449-38-3.) Doris Hillis’s poetry, women: the 13 (out of 15) female contributors include
Wheelings, lyrically celebrates the cycle of life. Mercedes Lackey, Jo Clayton, eluki bes shahar and
(C$11 pb, 1-895449-37-5.) Eva Tihanyi’s poetry in Phyllis Ann Karr. Elisabeth Waters co-edited.
Saved by the Telling examines the lives of women C. J. Cherryh’s Hugo Award-winning Cyteen, pre-
and offers an honest, compelling and often humour- viously available as a one-volume hardcover and a
ous view. (C$11 pb, 1-895449-35-9.) Distributed by three-volume paperback, is now out in a one- volume
General Distribution Services. trade paperback edition ($14.99 tp, 0-446-67127-4). It
General Distribution Services’ U.S. address is: 85 utilizes Cherryh’s considerable talent for creating com-
R1ock0 8Riv3er, Dr ivfe a #x202 , B4uf1fa6lo - N4Y 4 14520-7; 5 8090-68075-. O plex worlds and characters, subjecting them to cataclysmic
stress, and watching them develop over time. O
January/February 1996 62
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:27:01 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminis t BAookstEore R NewsE
By Tee A. Corinne based as an adult in California, to a much wider
audience. Best known for her nudes in landscapes
Because of the movie tie-in, Carrington: A Life by made in the early years of this century, A Poetic
Gretchen Holbrook Gerzina should start moving Vision includes portrait, nature studies, a collection of
quickly. Bisexual, but not particularly driven by sex, self-portraits and other images of the artist. $19.95 pb,
the British painter who called herself Carrington 0-89951-091-4. 40% discount for 5+ books. Distributed
(1893-1932) fell in love with Litton Strachey, a homo- by Santa Barbara Museum of Art, The Museum Store,
sexual and a writer, and they became family for one 1130 State Street, Santa Barbara CA 93101.
another for most of her adult life. Both Strachey and When I'm Bad, I’m Better: Mae West, Sex, and
Carrington lived on the edges of the Bloomsbury American Entertainment by Marybeth Hamilton is as
group. Fascinating and complex. $15 pb, 0-393-31328- outstanding for it’s lively and clear writing style as for
X, W.W. Norton. the compelling story it tells of Mae West, the Brook-
Related books: Carrington: Paintings, Drawings lyn-born daughter of immigrant parents, who grew
and Decorations by Noel Carrington ($15.95 cl, 0-500- up sexy and tough, then learned, especially from
09143-9), and The Art of Dora Carrington by Jane Hill
($15.95 pb, 0-500-092443; $24.95 cl -278571), both from
Thames and Hudson.
‘Deaf Maggie Lee Sayre:’ Photographs of a
River Life by Maggie Lee Sayre edited by Tom Rankin
is a fascinating study of the candid photographs of a
Mississippi River resident (b. 1920) who was born deaf,
attended the Kentucky School for the Deaf where she
learned sign language, inherited her sister’s camera
around the age of 17, and returned to live with her family
on their riverboat. It is a complex story, part folk art, part
sociology, lovingly done. $17.95 pb, 0-87805-799-4; $35 cl,
-788-9, University Press of Mississippi. Distributed by
Ingram and Baker & Taylor.
Journeys Through Inner Space, paintings and
poems by Hue Walker, with an introduction by Robert
Lentz, presents visionary, surreal, beautifully handled
images which draw on a multitude of cultures and
traditions: Celtic, Native American, Gothic and more.
$20 pb, 0-87654-474-X, Pomegranate.
An exhibit catalog, A Poetic Vision: The Photo-
graphs of Anne Brigman by Susan Ehrens, will bring
the work of Brigman (1869-1950), born in Hawaii and
January/February 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:27:01 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
campy gay men, how to project that sexuality on stage. Part of an admirable new series on younger artists,
The story of America’s homosexual underworld in the Jessica Stockholder, interview by Lynne Tillman,
nineteen-teens and ‘twenties is fabulously presented essays by Barry Schwabsky, Lynne Cooke and others,
and interwoven with West's rise to fame. $23 cl, 0-06- may be of more interest to librarians and museum
019031-0, HarperCollins. bookstores (and yes, it has been gratifying to learn that
The Diary of Frida Kahlo: An Intimate Self- they, too, read FBN!) than to women’s bookstores. The
Portrait, essays and commentaries by Sarah M. Lowe, price isn't bad for the colorful, thick, large book, but the
introduction by Carlos Fuentes, is being published in work — very contemporary assemblage and environ-
eleven countries at once. Talented, disabled, sexually mental constructions — has no grounding in feminism
active with men and with women, Kahlo (1907-1954) other than the spaces which the Women’s Art Move-
has lodged herself and her work vividly in the late 20th ment opened for artists to move into the mainstream.
century imagination. This volume includes a 170 page $29.95 pb, 0-7148-113406-8, Phaidon. Distributed by
color facsimile of the diary /journal/sketchbook from Chronicle Books. f
the last ten years of her life. Translated and elegantly
contextualized. $39.95 cl, 0-8109-3221-0, Abrams.
Betty Hahn: Photography or Maybe Not by Steve
Yates deals with the quirky, multi-faceted career of an
American artist, born in 1940, who doesn’t neatly fall At Century's End: Norwegian Artists and the
into any single category, although most of her work Figurative Tradition, 1880-1990 is a rich and fascinat-
involves photographs in one way or another. Widely ing book. Focusing dually on the work of three
exhibited, this is the first major study of her work. spinster artists active at the end of the last century and
$39.95 pb, 0-8263-1602-6; $80 cl, -1601-8, University of six contemporary women artists, it describes ways
New Mexico Press. women artists have supported one another. $19.95 pb,
0-940979-32-2; $29.95 cl, -32-2. 40% discount for 5+
books. National Museum of Women in the Arts. Dis-
In celebration of International Women’s Day, tributed by Northeastern University Press.
Syracuse Cultural Workers is pleased to announce... Probably For Librarians Only: Sofonisba
Anguissola: A Renaissance Woman by Sylvia Ferino-
Pagden and Maria Kusche is a terrific book about the
early Italian portrait painter (ca. 1532-1625), known
for her portrayal of great psychological intensity.
C, ZITELLE Unfortunately, the publisher wrote that the “book cost
TSHEA LURMIANOU S W$A T ERTCOELOERSL OEF pso m 0u -9ch 9t 7o 3p 1r -o 4d ,u c Ne t h Da it ow une .c a Onn rdot d fis rc oo mun t hit e.” $29.95
b , 40 9 - o s c t er T
National Museum of Women in the Arts, The Museum
A collection oAf S10K p oFstOerRs, oOneU bRoo k F aUndL Lon e C tO-shLiOrtR, w iBthR mOoCreH UtoR cEomIe. 2S 0h 0o 0p 5, , 1 82 05 00 - 2 N 22e -w 7 2 7Y 0o .rk Avenue NW, Washington DC
Nicely repackaged reprints include Old Mistresses:
Women, Art and Ideology by Rozsika Parker and
Griselda Pollock ($12.99 pb, 0-86358-185-4) and Fram-
ing Feminism: Art and the Women’s Movement,
1970-1985 by Rozsika Parker and Griselda Pollock
($14.99 pb, 0-86358-179-X) both published by Pandora
and distributed by HarperCollins. Rich with black and
white illustrations, Old Mistresses analyzes past and
present work while Framing Feminism presents arti-
cles which were published in Britain, creating a
splendid collection of provocative material. O
January/February 1996 64
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:27:01 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
By Jennifer Einhorn solo vocals and acoustic guitar. This is a thrill for
Goldenrod /Horizon Distribution long-time fans who have been continually dissatis-
fied with the overproduction on her three major
Tigerlily/Natalie Merchant. Great in-store label releases (Steady On, Fat City and Cover Girl —
browsing music. Merchant's departure from super- all on Columbia). The four newly recorded tunes are
group Ten Thousand Maniacs has served her well. “Something To Believe In,” “Don’t You Feel It Too,”
Much like Sarah McLachlan, Merchant's melodies are “Kathy’s Song” and “Knowing What I Know Now.”
not front and center. You need to pay attention in order This is what acoustic music should always sound
for the resonance of the lyrics and music to sink in. like — crisp, live and thoroughly unproduced. Plump
Quiet but extremely potent stuff. “Beloved Wife,” Records 5901.
written from the perspective of her grandfather after
losing his wife of fifty years is priceless, as is the
unrequited ballad “I May Know the Word.” “Carni-
val” and “Wonder” are the brightest moments on this
collection — light, rich melodies that make you happy Ring Them Bells/Joan Baez. Whether you're a
an artist like Merchant is making music. She’s a gem. Joan Baez fan, or a fan of contemporary women
Elektra 61745. singer /songwriters, you'll think this collection is
Soon and Again/Margie Adam. This is a record wonderful. On it, she pays homage to her colleagues
that was born to be played in a cafe or bookstore and of today by including duets recorded live at a per-
Adam has made endless promos available — espe- formance at New York City’s Bottom Line. What’s
cially to indie stores. Before Windham Hill, before Liz more, she prominently features large photos of her
Story and George Winston — there was Naked Keys. gals throughout the liner notes: Kate and Anna
Margie Adam's solo piano collection. Her latest re- McGarrigle, The Indigo Girls, Tish Hinojosa — all
lease, Soon and Again, is co-produced by pianist pay visits. Priceless is Baez joining forces with Mary
extraordinarie, Barbara Higbie, and is Adam's second Chapin Carpenter on “Diamonds and Rust” and her
instrumental piece. Higbie calls this ”...her best record performance with the up-and-coming songstress
yet” and she’s right. Despite the lack of vocals — or who opened for Baez on her European tour, Dar
perhaps because of — this is Adam’s most personal and Williams. Accompanied only by twin acoustic gui-
visceral record yet. Fans will be especially touched by tars, they play William’s tune “You're Aging Well”
her signature vocal tunes, “Tender Lady” and “Beau- (which appears on William's own The Honesty Room
tiful Soul,” which have been reworked into a stunning — a touching gesture of a torch being passed along
melody. A class act. Pleiades 2752. the generations). Guardian 34989.
Live "88/Shawn Colvin. This re-release, now in Global Divas: Voices from Women of the
compact disc format, was initially recorded as a World /Various Artists. A perfect gift. This is a pricey
demo tape at the Somerville Theater (Somerville endeavor, but one that your customers will rejoice
MA) in the late eighties. Produced by Darlene Wil- over. It’s worth purchasing an instore at cost, and
son, it features Colvin doing what she does best — displaying it by your counter during the holiday
Volume 18 Number 5 65 January/February 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:27:01 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
season. A massive three disc, 41 tune collection, this All You Can Eat/kd lang. This is mellow, sexy,
is a must for world music fans. Featuring many of alluring, dreamy kind of pop music — again, ideal
the best international vocalists of our time, it in- for bookstores. After Ingenue catapulted lang into
cludes an impressive liner notebook, with extensive serious stardom, fans have wondered what lang
biographies and anecdotes about each artist. Most could do for a follow-up. This is it! If you sold lots of
interesting are the stories of those women who have her before, this collection is sure to follow suit. Again
had to overcome incredible political and personal — major label pricing is a factor to consider. Packed
adversity in order to pursue their music. American with top-ten hits — without all the glitz, lang and
artists include Patsy Cline and Linda Rondstadt, co-producer Ben Mink have made a really smart
while other well known world music women in- record that caters to long-time fans and to folks who
clude Tarika Sammy, Oumou Sangare and Djur are looking for something a bit different. Buy a cost
Djura, Miriam Makeba, The Mahotella Queens, piece and play this a lot. Sire.
Varttina, Edith Piaf and Mercedes Sosa — and these Your Little Secret/Melissa Etheridge. Melissa
are just the highlights. Rounder 5062. doing Springsteen — or trying to. Etheridge’s bread
was buttered in women’s bookstores, and for the most
part, you have to stock her. Even with your mark-up,
there remains a core group of customers who hope-
fully will continue to buy her from you. Her previous
1200 Curfews/The Indigo Girls. An indispens- multi-platinum Yes I Am was filled with infectious
able collection for all IG fans. It’s also one of the best radio friendly mega-hits. This go-round is more
live collections ever, with 27 of Amy and Emily’s faves. rough around the edges — not the best in-store
Cuts include songs from the Swamp Ophelia Tour, material. A few tracks are wonderful — the first title
ampitheatres and small bar shows. Highlights include track single and the folk rock ballad “All The Way
a live and (the only studio) version of Buffy Saint To Heaven,” and you can be sure that her core
Marie’s “Bury My Heart At Wounded Knee” and re- audience will pick up this package no matter what
cent hits like “Least Complicated” (complete with the it sounds like. Island.
audience’s “Nah, Nah’s” on the chorus) and “Power
of Two.” Older songs include “Strange Fire,” “Ghost”
and, of course, “Closer To Fine.” Adoring crowd
screams, laughing, and bantering are woven through-
out making this collection as good as it gets — the next Just Released
best thing to being there. Excellent ecologically sound ° A BWinrtero Gtardhen/eLorreensa Mc Ke4nn6itt.0 W9arn6er. :
packaging to boot. Epic 67229.
Naked Songs/Ricki Lee Jones. A live record ° New Beginning/Tracy Chapman. Elektra 61850.
from a living legend. Jones is the consummate song- o Classical Erotica/ Various Artists. Lesbian coun-
writer who's mumbled, drawled delivery is terpart to Sensual Classics. Rising Star 280.
incomparable. No electronics here — these 15 cuts ° Yll Be a Homo for Christmas /Venus Envy. Now
were performed acoustically with a minimal band. available in disc format. Venus 2.
Her selections prove to be a fabulous mix of star- ° Our Gay Apparel/S.F.’s Gay Men’s Chorus.
makers coupled with more obscure (and brilliant) Goldengate 995.
cuts. Highlights include “Weasel and the White Boys ° The Shape of Things /Coyote Oldman. COMAN 8.
Cool,” “Living It Up,” “The Horses,” “Chuck E.’s in ° Turtle Logic/Mimi Fox. Disc format only.
Love,” “Magazine,” “It Must Be Love” and the mes- MR 1008.
merizing “We Belong Together.” The title is quite ° Road Tested /Bonnie Raitt. Recorded live. Capital
apropos, for Naked Songs reveals just how unique 33705.
an artist Jones really is. In this day of top forty ° Waiting to Exhale, The Soundtrack. Featuring
schmaltz, Jones will guarantee an indelible smile ToAni Brraxtions, tAreatha , Wh1itn8ey 7 and9 m6any. mo reO.
across your face. Reprise 45940.
January/February 1996 66
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:27:01 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
FOREEMINIST BOOKSTORES
By Richard Labonte must be taught how to deal with workplace diversity.
A Different Light Bookstore/ San Francisco With the cheeky slogan “do ask do tell” as a mantra,
Powers and Ellis demonstrate, among many other
This month, a look at “business” books: truths, thata happy “out” employee, treated well by her
Less than a decade ago, “professional” gays managers and peers, is far more productive than an
lurked pretty low on the gay radar’s horizon. We unhappy “closeted” employee. This is a book any self-
knew we were everywhere, working at every level of respecting gay employee (or gay employee group) will
corporate and workplace America, from talented ensure is made available to managers, personnel offices
temps to competent mid-level managers and beyond; and even co-workers willing to be engaged in the
but public awareness of queers at IBM, AT&T, Levi process of developing an inclusive workplace environ-
Strauss and other businesses big and small was ment. $25 cl, 0-415-91277-6, Routledge.
certainly limited.
That was then. Now, we have a spate of books
discussing, revealing, celebrating, endorsing and
emphasizing the fact that gay women and men are
more than set designers, hair stylists, UPS drivers or Straight Talk About Gays in the Workplace by
librarians. Liz Winfield and Susan Spielman is a hybrid of
Let's start with the two most recent. Straight Jobs Straight Jobs and A Manager's Guide — it offers
Gay Lives by Annette Friskopp and Sharon Silverst- instructive tales, like the former, from women and men
ein, based on interviews with women and men from who have come out, and intends to instruct managers,
the American professional workplace, is both a fasci- like the latter, in how to nurture workplace tolerance,
nating and a tedious read: interesting personal acceptance and diversity. In truth, both Friskopp and
anecdotes are muffled by a torpid writing style; these Silverstein’s and Powers and Ellis’s books render Win-
authors are no prose stylists. Still, there is a wealth of field and Spielman’s book redundant — but is there
both “lived” information — on how to deal with dis- really too much of a good thing? Not at all. While
crimination, what being closeted is like, what coming there's little in Straight Talk that isn't covered in the
outis like, networking — and “analyzed” information other two books, the authors of this tome are as impas-
— how gender, race and ethnicity, family issues and sioned and as informative as their colleagues; and if
AIDS and HIV are perceived in the professional work- any one thing speaks to the fact that the mid-1990’s are
place. There is also a generous resource section with a time when the gay community is heightening its
lists of gay professional organizations, gay employee visibility, even as the national political climate grows
groups, selected employer policies and more. $32.50 more hostile, it’s that where two years ago there were
cl, 0-684-80424-7, Scribner. no books on the topic of business life and gay life, now
Theinverse of Straight Jobs is A Manager's Guide there are several. $21.95 cl, 0-8144-0305-0,
to Sexual Orientation in the Workplace by Bob Powers Amacom /American Management Association.
and Alan Ellis, which goes beyond asserting that gays One of the newest biz books is The Gay Male’s
are a part of the professional workplace to presume — Odyssey in the Corporate World: From Disem-
deftly, entertainingly and assertively — that managers powerment to Empowerment by Gerald V. Miller,
67 January/February 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:27:01 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
which argues that “playing it safe” is absolutely the and all but one of this book’s 12 best (Quark) does
wrong thing to do for gay business professionals, and appear on Micken’s best. $23 cl, 0-88730-691-8,
which lays out an “action plan” for coming out. $14.95 HarperCollins.
pb, 1-56023-867-4, Harrington Park Press. The last of this year’s crop of business books is
Two books published earlier this year than those Untold Millions: Positioning Your Business for the
mentioned above take a different approach to gays Gay and Lesbian Consumer Revolution by Grant
and lesbians and their relationship to corporate Amer- Lukenbill , which tackles the topic from yet another
ica — they’re about where to work, and about which angle: its purpose is to tell non-gay businesses how
workplaces are better than others. to tap into what Lukenbill calls “gay and lesbian
consumerism, and the spectacular developments it
is spawning.” On the surface, there doesn’t appear
sw to be much reason for the average gay reader to care
about the book's subject matter — the cover targets
The 100 Best Companies for Gay Men and the book directly at businesses. That’s a pity, because
Lesbians by Ed Mickens is more or less what the title Lukenbill has done his research, writes with verve
says it is — an A to Z listing (American Friends and style, and presents a credible and informative
Service Commitee through Ben & Jerry's Homemade overview of political and social shifts in recent years
Inc. and Sun Microsystems Inc. to Ziff-Davis Publish- which are making lesbians and gays more palatable
ing Co.) of 100 businesses doing well by their queer as consumers. In essence, his book explains why all
employees. It’s not an exhaustive list, nor a particu- the other books reviewed here are possible: because
larly scientific one, but it does show dramatically we exist, and we matter. $25 cl, 0-88730-699-3,
how different types of business and professional HarperBusiness.
organizations are dealing with a growing demand for An older book (1993) which belongs in this bunch
workplace sensitivity. It’s also to be hoped that is The Corporate Closet: The Professional Lives of
Micken’s sprightly book is already outdated; that Gay Men in America by James D. Woods and Jay H.
wouldn't be a flaw, merely a sign that matters have Lucas. It’s the only one for gay men only, dealing
improved since his highly readable and revealing primarily with the fact that, until recently, gay men in
survey came outin the spring of this year. What won’t the corporate world have needed to be asexual in
be outdated is his introductory material, in which order to get promoted, or even get along. Why this
Mickens (editor of Working It Out: The Newsletter for was so, and why it’s changing, is the focus. $12.95 pb,
Gay and Lesbian Employment Issues), more lucidly than 0-02-935604-0,Macmillan / Free Press .
any of the other authors whose work is discussed (And as a postscript to the workplace books cited
here, prefaces his listings with several chapters dis- here, there is Voices of Diversity by Renee Blank and
cussing the past, present and future of gay visibility. Sandra Slipp, which among its diverse voices —
$12 pb,0-671-87479-9, Pocket Books. women, the disabled, African Americans, Asian
Cracking the Corporate Closet by Daniel Baker, Americans, Latinos, immigrants, elderly workers —
Sean O’Brien Strub and Bill Henning is subtitled “the are included those of lesbians and gay men “talking
200 best (and worst) companies to work for, buy from about problems and solutions in a workplace where
and invest in if you’re gay or lesbian — and even if you everyone is not alike;” it’s nice to be included. $22.95
aren't.” Baker and Strub have been dealing with the c1,0-8144-0217-8, Amacom.)
direct-mail marketing business for some years, and
their accumulated wisdom and insight makes this a
book with weight. It’s also arranged creatively — by 3
job theme, from accounting, aerospace and automo-
biles through telecommunications, travel and tourism After all the heavy lifting of serious books, here
and utilities. And there’s this encouraging fact, given are four of my favorite recent reads:
the book's overlap with others: none of this book’s “12 The first is The Badboy Book of Erotic Poetry
worst companies” shows up on Micken’s 100 best — edited by David Laurents, a hefty chest-heaving
January/February 1996 68
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:27:01 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
collection of sex-themed work by 61 writers, includ- suspects, dropping a few careful hints, and pulling
ing many of out community's more august authors his killer out of the suspect hat with no trickery —
— David Bergman, James Broughton, Alfred Corn, and, along the way, tosses off some of the funniest
Edward Field, Allen Ginsberg, Thom Gunn, Richard lines to be found in this year’s crop of gay fiction.
Howard, Wayne Koestenbaum, Michael Lassell, Such as? Well, context counts for a lot in well-crafted
Harold Norse, David Trinidad and Ian Young — to witty writing and there’s no room here for an ex-
cite a few without negelecting many more. This is a tended quote. But a couple of giggles are guaranteed
frolic of a book, often as arousing as good porn, just from Stevenson’s lean, comfortable prose. It’s an
as often as subtle and illuminating as fine poetry can excellent addition to a mystery section, even in hard-
be. If you have a small male erotica section, this book cover; Stevenson’s earlier available mysteries are,
would fit into it nicely; ditto if you stock any of the too: On the Other Hand, Death ( $8.95 pb, -11871-6);
milder male erotica. $5.95 pb, 400 pages, 1-56333- Ice Blues ($8.95 pb, -13517-3); Third Man Out ($8.95
382-1,Masquerade. pb,-08906-6) and Death Trick ($6.95 pb, 0-932870-27-
Often just as sexy, but with a more sustained 9, Alyson).
literary surface as well (and containing both prose
and poetry), is The New Fuck You: Adventures in
Lesbian Reading edited by Eileen Myles and Liz
Kotz, another hefty (39 contributors) page-turner of
a collection. The range of talent is impressive and I was asked recently to supply a list of must-
seductive: it’s a hard book to put down, one lesbians stock/most favored titles to a new feature in the San
will savor, one gay men should read as a quick way Francisco Review of Books, a full page each issue for
to learn how rich much of current women’s writing booksellers to give the flavor of their stores. A Differ-
can be. This is my favorite lesbian title of the season. ent Light's titles were selected by myself and
$8 pb, 1-57027-057-0, Semiotexte. co-managers Caroline Boyden and Ken White. So,
Wit is fun. Mysteries are fun. What could be here's our eclectic list of what's indispensable:
better, then, than a witty mystery? Two such are A Tales of the City by Armistead Maupin — This
Ghost in the Closet by Mabel Maney ($10.95 pb, book and its five sequels (More Tales, Further Tales,
1-57344-012-4, Cleis) and Shock to the System by Babycakes, Significant Others, Sure of You) are the best-
Richard Stevenson ($19.95 cl, 0-312-13610-2, St. read gay books ever, for good reason: they are sweet
Martin's). and funny and true, capturing life (not just gay) in San
Maney’s third novel (after Case of the Not-So-Nice Francisco from the mid-1970s into the early 1990s.
Nurse and Case of the Good-For-Nothing Girlfriend) $12pb, 0-06-096404-9, HarperCollins.
introduces the Hardly Boys, two intrepid gay lads City of Night by John Rechy — When it climbed
joining forces with Nancy Clue and Cherry Aimless to onto The New York Times bestseller list more than 30
find the missing Hardly parents. Maney’s superb years ago, this saga of the (homo)sexual underworld
achievement is to pen parodies (of the Hardy Boys and was a shocker; more of what it depicts is true today
of Nancy Drew, for the clueless) which take on novel- than many would think. Sexual content aside, it’s also
length laugh-inspiring lives of their own; it’s also one a beautifully-written book from one of America’s writ-
of the few recent books (Nisa Donnelly’s The Love ing masters. $12 pb, 0-8021-3083-6, Grove.
Songs of Phoenix Bay and Carole Maso’s The Art Lover) What It’s Like to Live Now by Meredith Maran
— Activist, progressive, lesbian, partner, mother: this
lesbians and gay men. engaging, charming and strong-willed memoir tells
Stevenson’s fifth Donald Strachey mystery is well how much a part of the fabric of everyday life
more straightforward in style, but just as amusing as lesbians (and gays) really are. $11.95 pb, 0-553-37493-
Maney’s swell read. The plot revolves around a cure- 1, Bantam, March.
the-queers psychologist implicated in the murder of Wild Ride by Bia Lowe — Books of essays don’t
one of his program's former “patients.” Stevenson sell? Take a look at this collection, a deft combination
follows all the sleuth rules by introducing a bevy of of dazzling writing and substantial thought from a
69 January/February 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:27:01 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Los Angeles writer with a great prose future ahead of strong-voiced pioneer. $10 pb, 0-452-26817-6, Penguin.
her. $11 pb, 0-06-092695-3, HarperCollins. Bisexual Politics: Theories, Queries & Visions
Last Watch of the Night by Paul Monette — The edited by Naomi Tucker with Liz Highleyman and
last book from the author of Borrowed Time (the best Rebecca Kaplan — After years of dearth, the past
AIDS memoir ever) and Becoming a Man (the National months have seen several new releases about bisexu-
Book Award-winning coming-oùt memoir) collects ality. This newest is historical, analytical and personal,
some fierce work on AIDS, religion, writing, life and a fine collection for the curious, the uninformed and
death. $12 pb, 0-15-600202-7, Harcourt. the “been-there, done-that’s.” $14.95 pb, 1-56023-869-
The Mayor of Castro Street by Randy Shilts — 0, Harrington Park Press.
More than ten years after publication, this remains the
best history of contemporary gay life in San Francisco,
told through the story of our community’s greatest 3
martyr. $13.95 cl, 0-312-01900-9, St. Martin’s.
Gender Outlaw: On Men, Women and the Rest Prayers for Bobby by Leroy Aarons — The sub-
of Us by Kate Bornstein — The scary in-between of title says it all about this poignant, important book,
gender and identity becomes friendly and compre- which refutes every hysterical hateful argument the
hensible in this funny and smart memoir/manual by Christians of the bigoted right make against teaching
a transsexual (from heterosexual man to lesbian the fact of homosexuality in the real world: it’s about
woman) trail-blazer. $12 pb, 0-679-7571-5, Vintage. “A mother’s coming to terms with the suicide of her
Moby Dick by Herman Melville (any edition, gay son,” a teen who died because he grew up know-
though the Library of America is the best) — Why ing he was gay and learning that the world hated him.
Melville? Gay scholars have made a case for his 18th $22 cl, 0-06-251122-X, HarperCollins.
Century queerness; more to the point, any gay teen Now That You Know: What Every Parent
forced to read Moby Dick (or Billy Budd) in high Should Know About Homosexuality by Betty
school will know that there is gay life in more literature Fairchild — There are now many useful books dealng
than the world of book-banners will ever understand. with the coming out process: this is the best for a
The Complete Shorter Fiction of Virginia Woolf lesbian or gay man to give to her or his parents. $9.95
edited by Susan Dick — One of the English language’s pb, 0-15-66701-X, Harvest/ Harcourt.
first truly modern writers, she helped set the stage for Blood, Bread and Poetry by Adrienne Rich —
later literary innovations with her non-realist, stream- Justly honored for her poetry (most recently Dark Fields
of-consciousness style. $9.95pb, 0-15-621250-1, of the Republic), Rich has been one of America’s most
Harvest/Harcourt. important writers for years. This collection contains
If Beale Street Could Talk by James Baldwin — the classic essay “Compulsory Heterosexuality and
One of this literary giant's best, although just about Lesbian Existence” — the piece which has brought out
anything he wrote should be read. Not specifically a many women. $9.95 pb, 0-393-31162-7, Norton.
gay novel, If Beale Street is writing that knows what The Little Death by Michael Nava ($7.95 pb,
it’s intended for: to move and to lift up, to affirm and 0-932870-96-1, Alyson) and Amateur City by Katherine
to inspire. $5.99 pb, 0-440-34060-8, Dell. Forrest ($9.95 pb, 0-930044-55-X, Naiad) — Once
upon a time, genre fiction just didn’t exist for gays:
now there are dozens of lesbian/gay-charactered
iy mysteries (and some science fiction) published every
year. The continuing series by both these writers are
Ceremonies by Essex Hemphill — The first a treat, blending social issues with intriguing sleuth-
major collection from a mainstream press by a Black ing. Look for new hardcovers from both next fall,
gay man. If you knew Hemphill’s poetry or his skill from Putnam.
as an editor (Brother to Brother), then you probably Outin All Directions edited by Lynn Witt, Sherry
know about this sharp and provocative collection of Thomas and Eric Marcus — No single book can sum
fiction, poetry and essays...the legacy of a clear-eyed, See Gay Men's Lit, page 90.
January/February 1996 70
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:27:01 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
[N
n
|
Compiled by Jenn Tust NAIAD PRESS
ATTIC PRESS Fans of the supernatural will line up to buy Kris
Bruyer’s Out of the Night, a spine-chilling novel set
Women, Power and Consciousness in 19th at a school for troubled girls. Replete with ghastly
Century Ireland by Mary Cullen and Maria Luddy apparitions, horrific phantasms and black-robed spec-
charts the lives of eight women whose agitation for ters, this eerie thriller follows the heroines of Bruyer’s
educational, social reform, and the nationalist cause, previous novel, Whispers, as they risk their lives to
changed the course of Irish history. This book exam- defeat an unseen enemy of unthinkable malevolence.
ines how these women radically altered the public $10.95 pb, 1-56280-120-1, March.
perception of women’s role in society. Their achieve- First Impressions by Kate Calloway is the debut
ments include persuading Trinity College, Dublin to novel in what what we're sure will become one of the
admit women to the exam system, the establishment most popular lesbian detective series ever. Private
of the Ladies’ Land League, the foundation of the
outdoor system of child rearing as well as the setting
wup e r eo f a lsa o n re et sw po or nk s ib o lef fc oit ry i np io to ir at insc gh o co hls a. n gT eh se s ie n w to hm een October 28.1920 L .VE N f1ma m a f Li s£. am im emm a MPrice 13 Cents
legislation under which Irish women were subject to
the authority of their husbands, for exposing prob-
lems like wife abuse and for abolishing the degrading
practices associated with female emigrant trade to-
wards the end of the nineteenth century. $31.99 cl,
1-85594-078-7.
Attic Press, 29 Upper Mount Street, Dublin 2,
Ireland; 353-1-661-6128, fax 353-1-661-6176. Distrib-
uted by InBook. — Attic Press
CHICAGO WOMEN’S HEALTH CENTER
Check It Out is a self-help kit developed by the
Chicago Women’s Health Center to promote
cal consumerism. It includes a plastic speculum,
flashlight, mirror and an informative fold out
brochure featuring step-by-step instructions for cer-
vical self exam. Suggested retail $10. $7 each for 1-9;
$6.50 for 11-30; $6 for 31-50. Chicago Women’s "Congratulations"
H6eal9th6 C5en7ter;, 3 4335 1 N2or-th9 S3he5ffi-el6d, 1 Ch2ic6ago. I LCS From One Woman, One Vote: Rediscovering the Woman
Suffrage Movement (New Sage Press)
Volume 18 Number 5 Z1 January/February 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:27:01 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
detective Cassidy James is trying tro solve a gruesome also collects a host of stories in which people tell of the
murder, but her investigation is complicated by sexist profound experiences they have had with a pet or wild
police, uncooperative witnesses, and the growing sex- animal that somehow touched their souls for a
ual tension between herself and the number one moment or a lifetime. $12.95 pb, 0-939165-27-9.
suspect. $10.95 pb, 1-56280-133-3. New Sage Press, PO Box 607, Troutdale OR 97060;
Naiad Press, PO Box 10543, Tallahassee FL 32302; 503-695-5406. Distributed by PGW. —CS
904-539-9322. Available from Inland, WomenSource/
Login, BF, et al. —Naiad Press
NEW SAGE PRESS ONLYWOMEN PRESS
The fight for the woman’s vote in the United Dirty Work by Vivien Kelly is a virtuoso first novel
States is of enormous political and social significance, set among London’s caring professionals and gay com-
yet it is virtually unacknowledged in the chronicles of munity. Murder or suicide? No one seems to care — but
American History. One Woman, One Vote: Rediscov- Jo wont let it rest when Karen, a young lesbian, is found
ering the Woman Suffrage Movement edited by dead in a London hostel for the homeless. Advice from
Majorie Spruill Wheeler offers lay readers and schol- Jo's house mates (queer and straight), comfort from the
ars alike the most up-to-date writings on this long, police sergeant in charge (an ex-lover) and steamy sex
arduous battle. It illustrates the diversity and com- with a prime suspect figure in the search through
plexity of the woman suffrage movement as well as Karen’s intimates and enemies. And the death toll
the varying — and sometimes conflicting — interpre- mounts till the solution challenges even Jo's stamina
tations by historians. Essays also include in-depth and wit. $10.99 pb, 0- 906500-55-9.
discussions on woman suffrage and racism, classism, An Intimacy of Equals: Lesbian Feminist Ethics
political strategies and coalition building. It is the edited by Lilian Mohin is the eagerly awaited (since at
companion book to the PBS Documentary, “One least 1993!) anthology that examines lesbian strategies
Woman, One Vote” (aired December 18, 1995). $18.95 to subvert the mainstream. An Intimacy of Equals
pb, 388 pgs.,0-939165-26-0. addresses issues such as: femininity (not just lipstick),
In Animals as Teachers & Healers: True Stories the misuses of psychology, gossip’s advantages, sexual
& Reflections Susan Chernak McElroy recounts her practice and traditional religion (for and against).
own successful battle with cancer and the role that Activists and academics, clerics and agnostics writing
animals have played in her healing and recovery. She here include: Rabbi Sheila Shulman, Dr. Celia Kitzinger,
ISBN: 1-879198-17-7
IET
$19.95, 6"x 9" paper, 250 pages
TK HN EO W PL OE SD ITG IVE, E ID PUEA BLS I S& H E T RRENDS, INC. A Dpr iil s 1 t9 r96 ibutor: InBook/Login IOUS e NUDa
72 Volume 18 Number 5
January/February 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:27:01 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Joyce Cunningham, Lilian Mohin, Rosie Waite, Maud and fears. Babes is into power and calls the shots. Or
Sulter, J.P. Hollerith, Anna Livia, Carol Reeves, Nett does she? Figments of a Murder probes obsession,
Hart, Dr. Julia Penelope and Dr. Patricia Duncker. images of self, sex, stardom and sisterhood. $13.95 pb,
Onlywomen Press, 40 St. Lawrence Terrace, 1-875559-43-4.
London W10 5ST, England; +0181-960-7122, fax Spinifex Press, 504 Queensberry Street, PO Box
+0181-960-2817, e-mail: 100756.1242@compu- 212, North Melbourne Victoria 3051, Australia; +613-
serve.com. Distributed by WomenSource/Login. 9329-6088, fax +613-9329-9238. In the U.S., call or fax
—Onlywomen Press 7I18n-35B1-9o59o9 kfor. f ur—therS ipnfiornmaitifone. xDis tr ibPuterd e byss
TORRANCE PUBLISHING
PAPIER-MACHE PRESS
How to Fight Back and Win: The Joy of Self-
Large print editions of When I Am an Old Defense by Judith Fein, Ph.D. is a state of the art,
Woman I Shall Wear Purple ($17 pb, 0-918949-83-1) practical guide for preventing and stopping assault.
and If I Had My Life to Live Over I Would Pick More Twenty easy to comprehend lessons (with photos and
Daisies ($17 pb, 0-918949-84-X), both edited by Sandra diagrams) describe both physical and emotional/
Haldeman Martz, will be available in April. psychological self-defense measures. “Winning is hav-
Papier-Mache Press, PO Box 1305, Freedom CA ing no other options in your mind. Winning is pure guts
95019; 800-927-5913. Distributed by InBook, Inland, and determination.” $16.95 pb, 0-929523-28-8. Torrance
BP, Baker & Taylor, Ingram and Pacific Pipeline. Publishing, PO Box 2558, Sebastopol CA 95473. —CS
—Papier-Mache Press
VIRAGO
SPINIFEX PRESS The Diaries of Sylvia Townsend Warner edited
1996 marks our fifth year, and it is appropriate by Claire Harman. For Sylvia Townsend Warner, the
that Dale Spender’s extraordinary book should lead diaries she kept from 1927 to 1978 became the equiv-
the year off and that Gillian Hanscombe’s murder in alent of an intimate correspondent to whom she could
the women’s movement mystery should make us describe and ponder the details of her life. From her
think about who we are and what we can justify thoughts on love, friendship, writing, and death to the
politically. antics of her cats and her plans for her garden, she
Nattering on the Net: Women, Power and gives us a self-portrait replete with anecdotes and rich
Cyberspace by Dale Spender looks at the revolution observations. Above all, her diaries are a poignant
in culture that is occurring with the advent of the account of her great love affair with Valentine
Internet and electronic communications. We first Ackland, the woman in her life, an affair that brought
both anguish and liberation. $19.95 pb, 1-85381-885-2.
changed with the times. Spender is excited about the Virago is distributed in the U.S. by Trafalgar Square.
possibilities for feminists, but is also critical about the While you're ordering you might want to pick up
way in which men have hijacked the superhighway. a copy of Vera Brittain: A Life by Paul Berry and Mark
$19.95, 1-875559-09-4. Bostridge, the first comprehensive biography of the
Figments of a Murder by Gillian Hanscombe is controversial writer, pacifist and feminist who immor-
both funny and terrifying. Hanscombe has written a talized a lost generation in Testament of Youth and
riveting book about Babes, the woman everyone loves dared to jeopardize her literary standing during WW
73 January/February 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:27:01 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
II with her courageous protest against Britain’s satu-
H Time-proven sexual abuse ration bombing of Germany. This biography describes
her primary (but not sexual) relationship with
books from Mother Courage Winifred Holtby, the cornerstone of Brittain’s adult
life. “This biography, authoritative but also im-
S H Helping the Adult mensely readable, confirms Vera Brittain’s stature as
E Survivor of Child Sexual one of the most remarkable women of her time, and
E Abuse—fíor friends, also as a woman ahead of her time. U.S.$35 cl, Chatto
families and lovers & Windus, 0-7011-2679-5. Distributed in the U.S. by
Offers guidance for caring Trafalgar Square, North Pomfret VT 05053. -CS
support people to help their
loved one to heal while still And A Few Periodicals:
taking care of themselves. The Body Politic is a “Monthly Pro-Choice News
$9.95 Paper Report” in magazine-on-newsprint format “sup-
ported by a network of savvy volunteers across the
E The Woman Inside— country who supply the magazine with information
from incest victim to survivor Guides an about their local communities.” $3.50 / issue, ten issues
incest victim through creative yet easy-to- per year. The Body Politic, PO Box 2363, Binghamton
understand mental and emotional exercises NY 13902; 607-648-2760. Distributed by Left Bank
to overcome her confusion and pain in the Distribution, Desert Moon Periodicals, Armadillo
healing process. $11.95 Paper Distributors, and Detroit Magazine Distribution.
Booksellers in academic communities may wish to
M Rebirth of Power—overcoming the stock The Monthly Forum on Women in Higher Education.
effects of sexual abuse through the The premier issue (October, 1995) looks at “Women’s
experiences of others Survivors share the Quest to Scale the Ivory Tower,” “The Nine Lives of the
knowledge they have gained at painful prices Seven Sisters,” “Women’s Enrollment at the Nation’s
to compel us to understand, care and work to Elite Colleges and Universities,” “New Proof of SAT
stop sexual violence. $9.95 Paper Gender Bias,” and “Milestones for Women in Medical
Schools.” $5.00/ 48 page issue. 200 West57th Street, 15th
m Why Me?—help for victims of child Floor, New York NY 10019; 212-399-1087.
s S p aae bde sx n y uuu ss lc t eia ht sl ro i . . v l a o e Eb $g, m 7u i c .s f 9pae r 5l h a a ( n w se Pk iv azo e peu n s ea n r n d tdi sf h ei o nt f h rf e e o ty sr e pm e o na nar at se gi iv be e r ia l sd i tiu n yalt n s dh o fen a o li tw n hg) e the t a Tth hta eet n t i w siW soi unlo l e m oa Ie fp n p s’ s e at a wh lW e t co mo or nk o syi r is o e d u e a n rt erg df aei drv i te t h- if oy ee n me aa 7lir l 5n- y tio hsl td vs i a s nz uai nn an l ide l vy - e i rss th soi a rl r l im ye n ha tg o oela fddz .i n te he
woman suffrage, the success of RV women, a woman's
m Something Happened to Me life as a stripper, housekeeping and guilt, and reviewed
Designed for use with children and families Just Lucky I Guess, Egalia's Daughters, and Kitchen Tables.
where sexual abuse has occurred so that a $3.00/32 page issue. Women’s Work, 606 Avenue A,
helping adult can aid abused children. $4.95 Snohomish WA 98290; 306-568-5914. Distributed by BP,
Paper. Illustrated Small Changes and Desert Moon.
Wahine (Polynesian for “women”) is a very-
H Distributed by Bookpeople, Baker & Taylor, Inland or order produced, slick, color magazine about women and
directly from water. “Wahine is for all the women who love the
Mother Courage Press £ S FY water, whether she sails, windsurfs, bodysurfs,
1667 Douglas, Racine, WI 53404 NY kayaks, canoes, swims, bodyboards or just stands in
(414) 637-2227 FAX(414) 637-8242 T? sa up rp fr ee rc ,i a t Wion h o a t w et h he o nw oa rt e ir n's te hd ig s e , p ra en md ie p ra r it si sc uu el .a ”r l y T h et h e first
issue includes an interview with current world champ
January/February 1996 74
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:27:01 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Lisa Anderson, a story about filmmaker Donna editorial reflects the culture of women between ages
Olson’s “Surfer Girl” video, and a surfing trip to Mex- 20 and 40. It covers everything from unknown meth-
ico with former world champion surfer Frieda Zamba, ods of birth control to the UN Conference on Women
a lot of graphics, a lot of color, a lot of flash, a lot of to punk music, Seal Press books, and bodyboarding.
bathing suits and a surprising amount of practical Well produced, colorful, graphically interesting and
information. $2.95/32 pages. Next issue is due out in readable. Editor Kathleen Gasperini is the former
February. Direct orders: 40% discount for 10+ copies. editor of Women Sports & Fitness and former associate
Wahine, 5520 East Second Street Suite K, Long Beach editor of Snowboarder. The experience of the produc-
CA 90803; 310-434-9444. Distributed by Fine Print. tion and editorial crew shows. If there’s any justice in
Reading Woman is a review journal/newsletter the world, this magazine will get enough distribution
published quarterly that covers 20 books — mostly to make a difference in young women’s lives. $3.95 for
fiction and biography — per issue. It looks at “what the premiere. WIG, PO Box 158, Heber City UT 84032;
women are reading” rather than at books by/about 801-654-5398. We'll run distribution information in
women. The one and two paragraph mini-reviews are “That-A-Way” as soon as we get it! CS
followed by brief excerpts. Possibly useful for reading
groups looking for ideas. $15/ year for four issues. Pub- Inland (Wholesale) titles are now available from
lished by Bering Communications, PO Box 19116, Inland/Koen, 10 Twosome Drive, PO Box 600, Moorestown
Minneapolis MN 55419; 800-844-1271 or 612-822-1271. NJ 08057; 800-257-8481. InBook and WomenSource titles
Bookstore terms and distribution information not sent. are shifting to InBook/Login. During the month of January,
WIG (that's Women In General) is a new women’s InBook and WomenSource titles will probably be available
cultural magazine that covers sports, art and music. both from Login as well as from the old InBook warehouse in
It's designed to appeal to Generation X women (who Connecticut. InBook and WomenSource titles are also avail-
the editors call “Generation F women”) though the able through many other wholesalers (Koen, BP, etc.). O
Sarah Aldridge’s new novel The Latecomer, Tottie, Cytherea’s Breath, All
Amantha T Ar uu re o rL ao , v e Mr is s, f oT rh tue n eN ’se s t Fi rn ig e n dP ,l a c Me, a g M daa ld ea nm a,e
Keep To Me Stranger, a An d F li gMht i cohf a Aenlgae.ls,
The story of two women caught in the web of the opulent Available only from
so9ci0ety' s o.f B a:ltimore, Paris and London of the 1880’s and
Critics have said of Sarah Aldridge’s earlier novels:
“Romantic and highly enjoyable”; “a significant contribution
that will stand the test of time and the marketplace”; “a
portrayal of lesbian love that leads to a development of
character that goes beyond the classics of lesbian
literature”; “draws back the curtain and allows a glimpse of
life in which every reader will see herself”.
Booksellers are offered a 50% discount.
75 January/February 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:27:01 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
The Color of Winter
by Lisa Shapiro
In a world that glorifies the mind but stifles the
spirit, two women struggle to live life on their own
terms...
: Haunted by ghosts of the past, Dr. Sandra Ross,
| 51, seeks safety in the conventions and conformity
; of academia. Newly appointed to the History
Department at University of California—Berkeley,
she becomes faculty advisor to 29-year-old Jay
Hope, the rebellious daughter of wealthy philan-
thropists. Jay’s inheritance is contingent upon her
receiving a college degree before she turns 31,
and her powerful mother will do everything she can
to ensure that Jay plays by her rules. But Jay has
other plans...
Sandra looked at Jay. The desire in the young woman's eyes was easy to
read and she felt an answering desire rise as heat to her face. “I have to
protect what I believe in. You're a student. | can justify my feelings towards
yo uJ. a yI csomuillde d .n e “vIe'mr jugsotinifgy ttoh ek eaecpt i ocno.m”ing here until you tell me to leave.”
Sandra hesitated. She could face her fear, but she could not speak it. All
she had left was honesty. “I don’t want you to leave.”
ISBN 1-56280-116-3 $10.95
Family Secrets
by Laura DeHart Young
An exhilarating blend of romance and suspense
tthhate w islle nkeseapt iyoonu a eln t hcrlailmleda xfr!om the first page to
Orphaned as a child when her parents were
killed in a tragic car wreck, Meg Rhyland is
shocked when a stranger appears claiming to be
her half-brother and demanding his share of her
inheritance. To make matters worse, Meg and Kit,
her partner of four years, are having serious
problems—and Kit has begun drinking heavily.
After Meg catches her lover in bed with a close
family friend, Kit moves out, leaving Meg alone to
deal with her alleged sibling.
When Meg learns that the car crash that killed her parents might not have
been an accident, she hires Private Detective Susan Marks to find out the
truth about her father’s past. As the women unravel the tangled knot of lies
and family secrets, they discover that Meg is the target of a terrifying
conspiracy. But will they be able to stop it before the killing begins???
ISBN 1-56280-119-8 $10.95
The Naiad Press, Inc.
P.O. Box 10543 • Tallahassee, FL 32302
(904) 539-5965 • Fax (904) 539-9731 • 1-800-533-1973
January/February 1996 76 Volume 18 Number 5
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:27:01 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFROM TH]
By Jenn Tust both on college campuses and on the larger American
scene. Griffin begins her journey by probing key expe-
In Words of Fire: An Anthology of African- riences of “growing up white and female” in the fifties
American Feminist Thought Beverly Guy-Sheftall and sixties, then moves on to her current life as a
has assembled a comprehensive collection of Black teacher of English and women’s studies at a small
women’s writings from the 1830s to the present. liberal arts college in the Midwest. Griffin recounts
Guy-Sheftall’s work blasts the illusion that main- classroom dramas while teaching African American
stream feminism’s marginalization of Black women literature to white students, showing herself to be a
has left Black women without an intellectual tradition. woman willing to take risks to transcend differ-
Tracing the evolution of Black feminism, Words of ences and open her students’ minds to new
Fire illustrates the tradition of resistance against the possibilities. $16.95 pb, 0-9623879-5-9. Trilogy
three-fold oppression of racism, classism, and sexism Books, 50 South DeLacey Avenue #201, Pasadena
that Black women have struggled against since their CA 91105; 818-440-0669. Distributed by Independent
arrival in America. Angela Davis, Sojourner Truth, Publishers Group.
Lorraine Hansberry and Alice Walker are among the
50 contributors. Looks fabulous! $20 pb, 1-56584-256-
1. The New Press, 450 West 41st Street, New York NY
10036. Distributed by W.W. Norton.
Heatwave: Women in Love and Lust edited by
Lucy Jane Bledsoe features passionate, volcanic les-
bian short fiction that delivers, both in terms of literary
and erotic content. Running the gamut from a tender
first kiss next to a stream on women’s land, to knife-
edge tension and dark sexual intrigue in East Berlin,
the stories in Heatwave are hot, reflecting what
Bledsoe calls “the bigness of lesbian eroticism” which
is “so much more than what we do in bed.” Contrib-
utors include Nisa Donnelly, Kitty Tsui, michon and
Publications, 40 Plympton Street, Boston MA 02118.
Distributed by Consortium and BP.
In Season of the Witch: Border Lines, Marginal
Notes Gail Griffin blends autobiography and literary
criticism to examine conflicts currently raging around Chisie Farrington in 1936 with her “first really big fish.”
feminism, multiculturalism and political correctness, From Ree! Women (Beyond Words Publishing)
77 January/February 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:27:01 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Thunder’s Grace: Walking the Road of Visions humans’ relationship with nature, peace activism and
With My Lakota Grandmother by Mary Elizabeth social justice, respect for elders, and raising children
Thunder tells both her own story and the true tale for a gentler walk on Mother Earth. $13.95 pb, 1-
about her adopted grandmother, Grace Spotted Eagle, 883953-07-3; $18.95 cl, -08-1. Midwest Traditions, PO
who guided Thunder to her spiritual awakening as a Box 320, Mount Horeb WI 53572; 800-736-9189. Dis-
messenger. Thunder’s Grace is about Thunders per- tributed by Independent Publishers Group and B&T.
sonal quest for meaning amid two cultures and is an
account of the visionary underpinnings of Native
American life. From abandoned, abused child to
esteemed leader in the Native American movement —
healer, visionary, and teacher in a native tradition In the foreword to Celebrating the Great Mother:
— Thunder’s Grace is the story of the author’s jour- A Handbook of Earth-Honoring Activities for
ney. $14.95 pb, 0-88268-166-4. Station Hill Press, Parents and Children Diane Mariechild writes, “with
Barrytown NY 12507; 914-758-5840. Distributed by grace and insight emerging from their own deep
Talman Company, 131 Spring Street #201E-N, New experience, Cait Johnson and Maura D. Shaw have
York NY 10012; 800-537-8894. created a guidebook for parents, teachers, and
caregivers to explore earth-based spirituality with
When Beaver Was Very Great: Stories to Live By, their children. While drawing primarily from their
by Ojibwe Storyteller Anne M. Dunn, collects teaching roots, a Goddess-based Celtic tradition, they respect-
stories for adults. Many of the characters in the tales fully acknowledge the wisdom of the Native
are the animals of Native American legend — each Americans upon whose soil we live. Both authors are
having a message of hope and wisdom to share. The the mothers of young sons, and their firsthand knowl-
writings address a diversity of topics, including edge of children shines through their writing. They
—Boston Sunday Herald
of world and literary history.
Kathy Acker
$20.00, Cloth , ISBN 0-8021-1578-0,
5 1/2 x8 1/4, 256pp
Grove Press
January/February 1996 78
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:27:01 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
invite even the most hesitant to joyfully and respect- Of Sluts and Bastards: A Feminist Decodes the
fully reconnect with our home planet.” The ideas, Child Welfare Debate by Louise Armstrong, the
suggestions, and activities collected here bring chil- author of Kiss Daddy Goodnight, jumps into the
dren into rituals that celebrate seasonal cycles and Gingrichian child welfare debate, slashing through
help reclaim the spiritual roots of today’s modern liberal and conservative nonsense to reveal a patriar-
holidays. $16.95 pb, 0-89281-550-7. 40% for 5-24; 42% chal system based on the state as Victorian
for 25-49; 43% for 50+. Destiny Books, One Park Street, “superpop.” In this wake-up call for women,
Rochester VT 05767; 800-246-8648. Armstrong reveals the link between the issue of -
welfare and that of child welfare: between the will to
In A Woman in Amber: Healing the Trauma of punish “sluts” and intervention to remove their “bas-
War and Exile, when Agate Nesaule was six, she and tards.” $18.95 pb, 1-56751-066-3; $29.95 cl, -067-1.
her family fled their home in rural Latvia to avoid Common Courage Press, 1 Red Barn Road, Monroe
Russian advance. Her family was first interned in ME 04951; 207-525-0900. Distributed by Koen.
Germany, where they were sent to work at an institute
in East Germany which was later bombed and cap-
tured by Russian Mongolian troops. Nesaule writes
about her exposure to rape, torture and execution, and
about how she and her sister played among the Over generations, Australian women have envi-
corpses as her family starved, awaiting death. Often it sioned a world of freedom. Freedom Bound I:
was their mother who kept them going and her Documents on Women in Colonial Australia, edited
mother’s wish that the life of the mind would be by Marian Quartly, Susan Janson and Patricia
theirs. $24 cl, 1-56947-046-4. Soho Press, 853 Broad- Grimshaw ($22.95 pb, 1-86373-735-9), and Freedom
way, New York NY 10003; 800-631-8571. Distributed Bound II: Documents on Women in Modern
by BF, B&T, Ingram, Pacific Pipeline, Bookazine, Australia, edited by Katie Holmes and Marilyn Lake
Bookmen and Booksource. ($22.95 pb, 1-86373-736-7), collect letters, diary-
extracts, poems, and public speeches that chart the
visions that inspired Australian women and the
obstacles that confronted them. These volumes
show how intertwined women’s public and per-
Until Women of Prague: Ethnic Diversity and sonal lives were, and how bound by customs, ties,
Social Change From the Eighteenth Century to the affections and duties. Different meanings of free-
Present little attention has been paid to the roles of dom have been shaped by the nature of women’s
women in the history of Prague. Wilma A. Iggers oppressions, their quests given focus by their differ-
bases Women of Prague largely on autobiographical ent points of departure: Aboriginal women sought
writings and letters by women, enhancing them with self-determination and the right to keep their chil-
an extensive historical introduction. The vivid por- dren; migrant women sought to affirm culture and
traits emerge from the varied material used by Iggers, family ties and to escape discrimination and
offering fascinating insights into the social and cul- poverty; overburdened mothers wanted relief from
tural history of Prague. $25 pb, 1-57181-009-9; $59.95 continual childbearing and a measure of self-
cl, -008-0. Berghahn Books, 165 Taber Avenue, Provi- fulfillment; numerous women have campaigned for
dence RI 02906; 401-861-9330. Distributed by Books freedom from domestic tyranny and male violence.
International; 703-435-7064. Allen & Unwin. Distributed by Paul & Company
79 January/February 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:27:01 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
CELEBRATING OUR 20TH YEAR! Publishers Consortium, c/oPCSData Processing, 360
West 31 Street, New York NY 10001; 212-564-3730.
LM RESTRICTED Throughout its first half century, the United
Nations has served as a catalyst for the global
advancement of women. The United Nations and the
ENTRY Advancement of Women: 1945-1995 includes more
CENSORSHIP wth oa mn e n1 ’0 s 0 r iU gn hi tt se d a nN da t cio hn rs o n d ico lc eu s m te hn et s e vr oe ll uat ti in ong oto f a cam-
ON TRIAL paign in which the initial focus on political and family
life has expanded and now encompasses issues
by including poverty, violence against women, and equal
access to education, employment and health care.
JANINE FULLER $29.95 pb, 92-1-100567-1. United Nations Publica-
tions, Room DC2-0853, Dept. PRES, New York NY
& STUART BLACKLEY 10017; 800-253-9646.
The Path We Tread: Blacks in Nursing World-
Posmen writers and activists wide, 1854-1994 examines over 140 years of Black
nurses’ contributions to the field. The new edition is
from around North America present expanded and international in scope, looking at Black
nurses’ involvement as leaders, innovators, and
compelling testimony in this insiders’ caregivers in Africa, the Caribbean, and throughout the
world. Historian, educator, and activist, M. Elizabeth
account of the hotly debated Little Carnegie looks at Black nurses’ work in the military,
Sister's trial. This milestone battle for nursing education at historically Black institutions, the
struggle for Black nurses to be recognized by national
a free, uncensored border includes nursing organizations, and early leaders who paved
the way for Black nurses today. $30.95, 0-88737-640-1.
testimony by witnesses Jane Rule, National League for Nursing, 350 Hudson Street, New
York NY 10014; 800-669-9656x123.
Pat Califia, Sarah Schulman and
Pierre Berton, among others.
A Male/Female Continuum: Paths to Colleague-
ship by Carol Pierce, David Wagner and Bill Page
ISBN 0-88974-053-4 “describes the journeys for women and men moving
$16.95 US / $18.95 Cnd away from dominance and subordinance through a
8 photo pages transition to colleagueship. A four-color fold-out chart
illustrates the interaction of men’s and women’s jour-
neys. Culture, race, and sexual orientation all shape
PRESS Distributed by o gu ur id ej o u fr on r e y ds i. s c uH se sl ip of nu l g rt oo u pin s d i av ni dd u a tl r a ir ne ia nd ge r s e v a en nd ts .”as a
GANG InBook in the US, $15.95 pb, 0-929767-02-0.
Sexual Orientation and Identity: Heterosexual,
PUBLISHERS by General in Canada Lesbian, Gay, and Bisexual Journeys by Heather
Wishik and Carol Pierce. “This new developmental
January/February 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:27:01 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
model describes the shifts in understanding our sex- speaks all our truths.” $12.95 pb, 0-89087-767-X.
ual orientation and that of others. A four-color, 40% for 10-24; 42% for 25+. Celestial Arts, PO Box
fold-out chart illustrates the journeys for heterosex- 7123, Berkeley CA 94707; 800-841-2665. Distributed by
ual, lesbian, gay [male], and bisexual people moving BP, B&T, Ingram, Pacific Pipeline and Koen. —FBC
away from compulsory heterosexuality to valuing a
diversity of relationships and sexualities. Culture, Shu Ting: Selected Poems edited by Eva Hung.
race, and gender shape our development of sexual Shu Ting is one of the foremost poets to emerge in
identity. For individuals, groups, and training China after the Cultural Revolution and the only
events.” $15.95 pb, 0-929767-03-9. woman to gain national and international recognition
40% and free shipping. New Dynamics, PO Box for her verse. Her distinctive, gentle voice and simplic-
595, Laconia NH 03247; 603-524-1115. —FBC ity of expression have articulated the emotional
longings of a generation. $14.95 pb, 962-7255-14-9.
40% for 10+ and free regular mail (4-6 weeks). Rendi-
tions Paperbacks, The Chinese University of Hong
Kong, Shatin, NT Hong Kong, Attn: Eric Cheung;
by Il eT nh ee R W oso om ffa .n S “o Iu nr c te h eC a tt ral ao dg it ia on nd o R f e v ti he ew W ed hi ot le ed Earth 8S52m-260a9-l7l4 07 . P Dristerisbust ed D byi s Cthrenig b &u Ttsuiio annd. FBC
Review, this is a homegrown, grass-roots approach to
self-reliance in every area of life, from career choices The Monkey’s Mask: An Erotic Murder Mystery
to community access, from recreational activities to by Dorothy Porter. “Not since Vikram Seth’s The
relationships. The Catalog gives women access to an Golden Gate has fiction in verse been so brilliantly
enormous variety of progressive, alternative, and accessible or so masterfully crafted. This daring twist .
hard-to-locate resources, and includes editorials, pho- on the mystery genre is ‘spoken’ by a lesbian private
tos, and excerpts highlighting the essence of the work, investigator with a voice of emotion and power that
organization, or service.” $19.95 pb, 0-89087-768-8. picks you up and hurls you through the pages in a
The New Older Woman: A Dialogue for the fast-paced and funny rhythmic charge through
Coming Century by Peggy Downs, Ph.D., Patricia murder and deceit.” $19.95 cl, 1-55970-304-0, Arcade.
Faul, Virginia Mudd and Ilene Tuttle “was conceived DistKributedo by e Littnle, Bro.wn an d a-lso FavailabBle froCm
when four friends, all over sixty, organized a two-day,
all-women conference at the Esalen Institute in 1991
and 1992. Multi-talented women from diverse profes-
sional disciplines gathered to discuss being vital,
productive and over fifty in today’s society. The result
is a treasury of information which will transcend time The Gay and Lesbian Literary Companion ed-
and be of value to women of all generations.” $12.95 ited by Malcolm Boyd “showcases writings with gay
pb, 0-89087-769-6. [male] or lesbian themes. In addition to presenting
We, The Dangerous: New and Selected Poems excerpts from fiction, poetry, plays, and essays, The
by Janice Mirikitani is the third volume of poetry by Gay & Lesbian Literary Companion discusses the
this third generation Japanese American woman born writers’ lives and art and provides a complete list of
in California and interned as an infant with her family their published writings. Among the 45 authors pro-
in Rohwer, Arkansas, during WWII. Maya Angelou filed are James Baldwin, Rita Mae Brown, Armistead
writes, “A major poet in America, Janice Mirikitani Maupin and Sarah Schulman.” $18.95 pb, 0-7876-
81 January/February 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:27:01 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
0033-4. 40% for 5-9; 41% for 10-24; 42% for 25+. Visible 40% for 5-24; 42% and free freight for 25+. The
Ink Press, 645 Griswold Avenue #835, Detroit MI Crossing Press, PO Box 1048, Freedom CA 95019; 800-
48226; 800-776-6265. Distributed by Koen. —FBC 777-1048. Distributed by BP, B&T, Ingram, Pacific
Pipeline and Koen.
From Wedded Wife to Lesbian Life by Deborah
Abbott and Ellen Farmer “presents 42 personal stories
of discovery by women who got married, defied tradi-
tion, and came out as lesbians. Drawing from a broad
range of cultures and classes, this revealing collection Spirit Moves: The Story of Six Generations of
of essays, interviews, poems, and photos offers a Native Women by Loree Boyd, with Katherine Dieter.
glimpse into the lives of lesbian authors JoAnn Loulan, “This powerful multi-generational chronicle reveals
Margaret Randall, Margarethe Cammermeyer and how one family endured the destruction of its way of
others.” $14.95 pb, 0-89594-766-8. -FBC life and survived into the modern world. It begins in
In Men Are From Detroit, Women Are From Montana in 1886, a decade after the battle of Little Big
Paris 20 women cartoonists, including Roz Chast, Horn, with the birth of Bird Song, the author’s great-
Nicole Hollander, Jennifer Berman, Nina Paley, and great-grandmother, and continues to the present day.
Gail Machlis, share their observations about the two An inspiring real-life saga of secrets, survival and
sexes in this latest women’s humor collection com- love.” $14.95 pb, 1-880032-59-7, March.
piled by Roz Warren. $8.95 pb, 0-89594-748-X. A Woman’s Book of Rituals and Celebrations
For Making Love Visible: In Celebration of Gay by Barbara Ardinger, Ph.D., “offers joyful commem-
and Lesbian Families photographer Geoff Manasse oration of the Goddess for everyone seeking
and journalist/novelist Jean Swallow traveled the meaningful ritual and new access to the divine. In
country to document — through photographs and this easy-to-use resource, Ardinger teaches readers
interviews — the diversity in lesbian and gay male how to transform the simple, everyday objects in
families. The book, according to Stephanie Coontz, their homes and the seemingly ordinary events of
author of The Way We Never Were: American Families daily life into powerful ritual tools and sacred mo-
and the Nostalgia Trap, “intimately portrays the diverse m1ent-s 8of 8rev0elat0ion3 an2d -cel5ebr7atio-n.0” $.11 .9 5 -pbF, BC
voices and faces in families that are too often ignored
or stereotyped in today’s debate over family forms New World Library. Distributed by Publisher’s
and values.” $18.95 cl, 0-89594-778-1. Group West and Koen.
STONE
WCo on mte em n’p s o ) r Pa or ey t r yJ ,a p Van ole ss .e 1 & 2
EDITED AND TRANSLATED BY LEZA LOWITZ,
MIYUKI AOYAMA, AND AKEMI TOMIOKA
These two volumes collect the works of 51
Japanese women writers. Whether working
in the classical, elegant short forms of haiku
and tanka or in the rough cadences and
Ber kP eO le. y ,B o Cx A 8 2 90 48 707 TKT RUh AN Ne IK SO L AN TMa EUm DK Oe BD YA o Tf O M Ot Nh Ee M AF Tl So Uw Me Or TO s wl mah hn ua egr c rp u h e a . g i a em b “ Ao a a ug n te td r r y t ih uc u meo l f t piu hn r2 ane n0 , et tr h t - h plc i aee v isn reet s u o pr o foy f e t b sJ w o a o op r kmea sn v .e ”ee n —as le Le iv /e yry-
Sharply observed stories by a gifted writer Pond, YELLOW SILK
f at x se b l p 5 @5 11 n00 - e- 5 t5 2 c2 o44 m-- 88 .7 7 1 3 c12 om M“r m ABe No Ov r Ade eea al tr hn t e h sJ e a w ps iae tnc her se e dt e ews pt o lr m ye n e g n ft e h ltas n d ea mn td oh t e is oia r nd . n ”f —e as mse is l ie o s.f 2A O00 t p hpL , eo 5 r.n 5 g x S 7 i.2 dR 5, ea p i a pn e Rry , i I vS B eNS r e 1 :a - 8s 8 0o F65n r6-: 1 e 5 e- 9 ,H $ Va 12i . e0k 0 ru s e and Tanka
Distributed by Weatherhill 152 pp, 5.5 x 8.5, paper, ISBN 1-880656-09-4, $10.95 256 pp, 5.5 x 7.25, paper, ISBN 1-880656-16-7, $14.00
January/February 1996 82
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:27:01 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
On Our Own Terms: Portraits of Women Busi- book that captures the full flavor of biculturalism, this
ness Leaders by Liane Enkelis and Karen Olsen charming story will capture the imagination of both
“profiles 15 women from a variety of cultures, races, young and old alike as it teaches the joys and benefits
and lifestyles who head companies grossing more of speaking twò languages.” $14.95 cl, 1-55885-077-5.
than $10 million annually. These women have drawn Longing by Maria Espinosa is a psychological
on their passions, instincts, cultural heritage, and fam- novel focusing on a young woman’s dependence on
ily strength to succeed and their profiles offer readers her husband and her attempts to forge an indepen-
down-to-earth advice and inspiration on career plan- dent life for herself by escaping their unhealthy
ning, growing a business, and managing personal and relationship. $9.95 pb, 1-55885-145-3.
family life.” $19.95 pb, 1-881052-69-9, Berrett-Koehler. 43% for 5+. Piñata Books/ Arte Público Press, Uni-
Distributed by PGW and Koen. —FBC versity of Houston, Houston TX 77204; 800-834-ARTE.
Distributed by BP, B&T, Ingram and Pacific Pipeline.
The Complete Single Mother by Andrea Engber
and Leah Klungness, Ph.D.. “Written by the founder
and director of the National Organization of Single
Mothers, The Complete Single Mother explains what
nearly ten million American single mothers need to Overcoming Binge Eating by Dr. Christopher
know to overcome the challenges of daily life with Fairburn. “An urgently needed source of information,
dignity, wisdom, humor, and courage.” $12.95 pb, this authoritative book presents the facts about binge
1-55850-553-9. 46% for 10+ and free freight. Adams eating and offers concrete solutions to help overcome
Publishing, 260 Center Street, Holbrook MA 02343; it. ‘This book is a must read for binge eaters and their
80P0-i87p2-e562l7i. n Diestr ib uatedn bdy B &TK, oIngeranm,. Pa ci—ficFBC Df ia som rdi el ri se s O.’ r— gaL na izu ar tia o n .”H i $l 1l 4, . 9 5D i pr be , c t 0-o 8r 9, 8 6 2N -1a 7t 9-i 8o .nal Eating
40% for 5+. Guilford Publications, 72 Spring Street,
Tommy Stands Alone by Gloria Velasquez is New York NY 10012; 800-365-7006. Distributed by IN,
the third novel in the Roosevelt High School Series BaP,n B&dT, InBgralma, c Pakcifwic Peiplellin e , N LogAin, . JA - MFajoBrsC
for young adults. Tommy Stands Alone deals with
the difficult issues of sexual orientation, a struggle
made more difficult by the boy’s family’s traditional Women, Sex and Desire: Exploring Your Sexu-
Hispanic expectatiðóns. Uncomfortable with dating ality at Every ‘Stage of Life by Elizabeth Davis.
girls and equally distressed by his interest in a male “Tracing women’s sexual cycles through the course of
friend, Tommy begins to cut classes and drink alco- a month and a lifetime, Elizabeth Davis, a longtime
hol in order to avoid his friends and their increasing midwife, explains why desire comes and goes. Bright
awareness that he may be gay. His attempt at suicide with blessings and reassurances, acknowledging
lands him in the hospital and leads to a friendship women’s issues that are universal yet shockingly
with counselor Ms. Martinez. Scenes narrated by under-discussed, Women, Sex and Desire is a com-
Tommy are juxtaposed with those narrated by Ms. prehensive classic-in-the-making, rewarding the
Martinez. Realistically done. $7.95 pb, 1-55885-147- reader with ‘courage at every crossroad.” $12.95 pb,
X; $14.95 cl, -146-1. 0-89793-194-7; $22.95 cl, -195-5. 40% and free shipping
Pepita Talks Twice/Pepita Habla Dos Veces by for 6+. Hunter House, PO Box 2914, Alameda CA
Ofelia Dumas Lachtman, illustrated by Alex Pardo 94501; 800-266-5592. Distributed by IN, BP, B&T,
Delange. “A delightfully illustrated bilingual picture Ingram, Pacific Pipeline, PGW and Koen. —FBC
83 January/February 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:27:01 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
L Weildcata Canfyon P.res s. D istribFuted Bby IN, C BP,
B&T, Ingram, Pacific Pipeline, PGW, Koen and New
(800) 634-6044
Journey Toward Forgiveness: Finding Your Way
The Best Selection of Home by BettyClare Moffatt. “Forgiveness takes
practice,” Moffatt writes. “It’s not enough to change
International Music our thinking, to change our minds. It’s a first and
necessary step. But we must change our hearts as well.
And the first place to extend forgiveness is to our own
by Women self. Our whole self. Then our lives are lived in ever-
Arabic & Middle Eastern & increasing joy and satisfaction and wonder.” $11.95
pb, 1-57101-050-5. 42% and free freight for 5+. Master-
Celtic/British Isles & African & Media; 800-334-8232. Distributed by B&T, Koen,
European @& Jewish & Latin Ingram and Spring Arbor. FBC
American @& World & Native
American & Asian/Pacific Goodbye Mother, Hello Woman: Reweaving
the Daughter Mother Relationship by Marilyn Irwin
African Heritage Boynton and Mary Dell. “Motivating, enlightening,
and empowering, Goodbye Mother, Hello Woman
T TOKI o: uses real-life stories along with writing and visualiza-
tion exercises to lift the veil on the love-hate
Nationally Distributing Music by Women for 20 Years relationship between adult daughters and mothers
and helps them begin to know, love and respect each
other as women.” $12.95 pb, 1-57224-025-3; $24.95 cl,
Girlfriends: Invisible Bonds, Enduring Ties by -024-5. 40% for 10+. New Harbinger, 5674 Shattuck
Carmen Renee Berry and Tamara Traeder, tells the Avenue, Oakland CA 94609; 800-748-6273. Distributed
stories of old friends and new friends, best friends and by BF, Ingram, PGW and Koen. =EBC
lost friends, soulmates and confidants. “Inspiring,
enlightening, with generous doses of humor, this book DOO
explores acceptance, strength, resilience, loyalty, and
many other facets of these invaluable relationships.”
$12.95 pb, 1-885171-08-0. Reel Women: The World of Women Who Fish by
Soulwork: Clearing the Mind, Opening the Lyla Foggia documents the history of women’s
Heart, and Replenishing the Spirit by BettyClare achievements, contributions, and participation in a
Moffatt, preface by Sue Patton Thoele. “The soul is our sport that has long been considered the exclusive do-
inner fulcrum, our balance point within, our point of main of men. Foggia profiles scores of women fly,
focus, our entrance to the divine. In SoulWork, Betty- big-game saltwater, and bass anglers, who have stead-
Clare Moffatt uses a unique blend of lyrical prose and ily broken down the barriers of this last frontier. Reel
practical exercises to teach us how to work with the Women also contains resources for the nearly 19 mil-
soul — filling the heart with light, the mind with lion women who fish, including an angling resource
clarity, the body with strength — to help us become directory, bibliography of angling books written by or
whole.” $9.95 pb, 1-885171-01-3. for women and a gallery of rarely-seen vintage and
Growing Season: A Healing Journey Into the contemporary photographs of women anglers, dating
Heart of Nature is Arlene Bernstein's description of from the 1800s. $24.95 cl, 1-885223-18-8.
her struggle to accept the deaths of three of her chil- The Woman’s Book of Creativity by C. Diane
dren through her interaction with the earth and Ealy, Ph.D., “shows women how to tap into their
nature. $11.95 pb, 1-885171-10-2. innate female creativity and improve all aspects of
January/February 1996 84
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:27:01 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termstheir lives. It contains specific exercises for developing with lesbians of color and to change practices and
and focusing creativity and explains what is unique policies that perpetuate oppression and discrimina-
about the creative energy of women.” $12.95 pb, 1- tion. $9.95 pb, 1-56023-072-X.
885223-06-4. Feminist Visions of Gender Similarities and
HillK sb oB re oy o Ono Rd 9W 7eo 1r 2d 4;s n 5P 0u 3b -l 6i 9sh 3. -in 87g 0, 0 .4 4 D3 i s tNF rE ib uA ti eBr dp o br yt CRoad, D dii af lf ee cr te icn c e bs e t wby ee n M e tr he ed i t th w o M t.K rai dm itb ia ol nl, s P oh f. D . f, e mop ine in ss m a —
similarities-based and differences-based — to gener-
ate useful scientific, political and psychological
tensions. Kimball presents a brief history of gender
research and equal-rights feminisms in the early
twentieth century, analyzes feminist critiques of sci-
Psychopharmacology From a Feminist Perspec- ence and technology, analyzes research on
tive, edited by Jean A. Hamilton, Margaret F. Jensvold, gender-related similarities and differences in mathe-
Esther D. Rothblum and Ellen Cole, seeks a more matics achievement, presents history of
gender-sensitive approach to pharmacologic research psychoanalytic gender theory and maternal femi-
and treatment by focusing on connections between nisms in the early twentieth century, and gives a broad
psychopharmacology and feminism. The chapters overview of women’s caregiving in North America
document the links between feminism, women’s and crøss-culturally in motherist-based political
studies, and practice and research in psychopharma- movements. $14.95 pb, 1-56023-870-4.
cology. Topics range from feminist critiques of science Sex, Cells, and Same-Sex Desire: The Biology of
and medicine to the roles of sex and gender in deter- Sexual Preference, edited by John P. DeCecco, Ph.D.,
mining responsivity to psychoactive drugs. $12.95 pb, and David Allen Parker, explores the myriad aspects
1-56023-059-2. of biological theories of sexual preference. The con-
Contributors to Lesbian Social Services: tributors describe, review and question recent
Research Issues, edited by Carol T. Tully, Ph.D., dis- biological research on sexual preference from the
cuss current issues surrounding social research with point of view of knowledgeable scientists and of
lesbians, examining research conducted about lesbi- scholars in social sciences and humanities represent-
ans and lesbianism from 1950-1990, psychotherapy ing the emerging field of gay male and lesbian studies.
with lesbians and gay men, partner abuse in lesbian “This book demystifies biological research on sexual
relationships, issues associated with conducting re- preference and makes it accessible to readers unfamil-
search with older lesbians, ethical dilemmas iar with biological and medical research.” $19.95 pb,
associated with conducting research in lesbian com- 1- 56023-060-6.
munities, and conflict resolution in lesbian Harrington Park Press, 10 Alice Street, Bingham-
relationships. $9.95 pb, 1-56023-071-1. ton NY 13904; 800-342-9678. Distributed by BP.
Lesbians of Color: Social and Human Services,
edited by Hilda Hidalgo, Ph.D., ACSW, examines the
important issues related to the oppression and dis-
crimination of lesbians of color by the dominant social
service community. The authors’ personalized Voices From Within: Faith-Life Stories of
accounts depict the deep-seated impact of society's Women in the Church by Patricia Gillespie and
racism, sexism, and homophobia. The contributors Mary Mathews. “The need and beauty of faith shar-
suggest ways to enhance social workers’ interactions ing that comes from the feminine source finds
85 January/February 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:27:01 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
expression and direction in this petite volume...great flashbacks and dreams, describe the traumas they ex-
for use in guiding a small group retreat or take along perienced, list negative abusive experiences; create a
to the park.” —Booklist. The Library Journal notes the successful vocational future; and work toward
“sense of immediacy, as if eavesdropping,...as empowerment. ($24.95 pb, 1-57444-021-7.) St. Lucie
women articulate their stories [and] discover com- Press, 100 E. Linton Boulevard #403B, Delray Beach FL
mon bonds.... Recommended. $11.95 pb, 33483; 407-274-9906. Distributed by Ingram.
0-932727-75-1. 46% and free freight on 10+. Hope
Publishing House, PO Box 60008, Pasadena CA
91116; 800-326-2671. Distributed by IN, BP, B&T, In-
gram, Spring Arbor and New Leaf. =FBC
In The Birthplace, dictated by Cleita and told by
Patrica A. Murphy has a book and workbook set Jon Robertson, Cleita “defines the role of women in
to help women survivors of abuse succeed in the work human ecstasy, and makes the case that our misunder-
force. The book, Making the Connections: Women, standing of that role has cut us off from the Divine.
Work and Abuse, offers dramatic insight into the lives This loss, she claims, is the key reason for violence in
of abuse victims and practical recommendations for our society, and for sexual abuse against women
their successful return to work. ($29.95 pb, 1-878205- worldwide.” $11.95 pb, 0-9647402-0-6. Inkhorn, PO
65-X.) The workbook, A Career and Life Planning Box 7660, Atlantic Station, Virginia Beach VA 23458;
Guide for Women Survivors: Making the Connec- 804-425-3964.
tions Workbook, can be used by survivors, their loved
ones and families, and professional counselors to The new edition of Li Ang’s classic, The Butcher’s
further the healing process. The exercises help readers Wife and Other Stories, translated and edited by
overcome denial, cope with vulnerability, deal with Howard Goldblatt, includes Flower Season, Curvaceous
Dolls and Test of Love. $18.95 pb, 0-88727-222-3. 40% for
5+. Cheng & Tsui Company, 25 West Street, Boston MA
NEW FROM AVOCUS PUBLISHING 02111; 617-426-6074.
A T bh oe u t O t Th he er i r S i Ed xe p eo rf ie nS ci ele sn c we i: t hW o Dm ate en R T ae pl el Chick-Lit: Postfeminist Fiction is the fourth
Christine Carter, Editor volume in “On the Edge: New Women’s Fiction,”
The powerful words of women who have been date- FC2'’s ongoing effort to discover new and innovative
aruathpeendti c gvoiivcee. Shtahrei s t h eSiro u sntodrihesi, e sahkarien gth e iar n lteshsoonlso,gy a living, voices in women’s fiction. Determined to contradict
share their strength. the myth that “women don’t write experimental fic-
HISaBrNdc:0o-v9e6r2,7 667x19-,9 - 0272 pages ASR vaP i: l a b$ l1 e9 . 9 n5 ow at nio dn , ” ir rC eh vi ec rk e- nL ti t w p itr e s ae nn dt s h ow no em ste yn . ” w $r 1i 1t .e 9r 5s pw bi ,t h 1 -“ 5a 7 3 6f 6r -esh
The Cultural Battlefield: 005-1. FC2/Black Ice Books, Northwestern University
Art Censorship & Public Funding Press, 625 Colfax Street, Evanston IL 60208. Distrib-
Jennifer A. Peter, Louis M. Crosier, Editors uted by Chicago Distribution Center; 800-621-2736.
Never has there been a more stirring call to celebrate
t th ioe n . o r Aig rtin isa tl s C ao nn dt r aa rct t s w ai dt mh i nA ism trer atic oa r: s t dh ee s c rU i. bS e. C thon eis rtitu- The Dancing With Miriam Haggadah: A Jewish
struggles against the suppression of ideas. Women’s Celebration of Passover by Elaine Moise
HISarBdNco:v e r0,- 966x92,7 619721 -p7a-g4es ASRvPa: i l$a1b9.l9e5 now and Rebecca Schwartz, with illustrations by Sherrie
Smith, contains original prayers, commentary, poetry,
National Advertising, Publicity, Book Tours music and art. It uses grammatically feminine bless-
To order, call 1-800-345-6665 ings addressed to Yah, Skekhinah, Ruach ha-olam (Yah,
A Bals ko e r a v &a i la Tb al ye l o rthrough Ingram and D triv adin ite i o nP ar le s e Pn asc se o, v eL ri f e s' ys m B br oe la st h a p o pf e a rt ,h e b u U t n i av re er s ie n). t e T rph re e-
PUBLISÄ N Bringing today's social issues to the table. ted with a feminist understanding of life, history and
the earth. $9.50 retail, $5.70 wholesale + shipping.
January/February 1996 86
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:27:01 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
wisdom from a rising voice in American literature.
Written in the lyrical voice of the talebearer, the
woman who passes down the stories of family and
Lavender Reflections: Affirmations for Lesbians tradition to the next generations, Be I Whole is a tale
and Gay Men by Eleanor Ruth Wagner, with photo- of ancient and spiritual people forming a new parable
graphs by Victor Arimondi, is a book with an array of for the time.” And, yes, Ferron fans, the title is taken
quotations from our lesbian sisters and gay brothers. from Ferron’s song. $16.95 cl, 1-878448-66-8. Mac-
“Sometimes gay men and lesbians need a reminder that Murray & Beck, PO Box 4257, Aspen CO 81612.
they are fine just the way they are, and that with pride Distributed by National Book Network; 800-462-6420.
and self-confidence, life will work out in wondrous and In The Making of Americans, Gertrude Stein sets
satisfying ways.” $10.95 pb, 1-886360-02-2. Alamo out to tell “a history of a family’s progress,” radically
Square Press. Distributed by BP. reworking the traditional family saga novel to encom-
pass her vision of personality and psychological
Photographing the Second Gold Rush: Dorothea relationships. As the history progresses over three gen-
Lange and the Bay Area at War, 1941-1945 presents erations, Stein also meditates on her own writing, on the
Lange's photographic documentary of the huge making of The Making of Americans, and on America.
changes WWII brought to one community, the San Thanks, Dalkey, for bringing it back into print! $16.95
Francisco Bay Area. These are Lange's non-WPA pb, 1-56478-088-0. Dalkey Archive Press, Illinois State
photos, previously unpublished which capture the University, Campus Box 4241, Normal IL61790. Distrib-
expulsion of Japanese Americans; thousands of young uted by Chicago Distribution; 800-621-2736.
men being sent overseas; and the newly opened ship-
yards, military bases, and wartime factories that
offered unheard-of opportunities for women, minori-
ties, and those displaced during the Dust Bowl years.
Lange stationed herself in front of stores and markets, Baskėtball for Women, by Nancy Lieberman-
on street corners and at shipyards to capture these Cline and Robin Roberts with a foreword by Pat
moments. $14.95 pb, 0-930588-78-9. 40% for 5+. Summitt, is for women serious about playing basket-
Heyday Books, Box 9145, Berkeley CA 94709; 510- ball at a high level. It provides 111 drills for improving
549-3564, fax 510-549-1889. Distributed by BP and and refining offensive and defensive skills, identi-
Ingram. fies keys to proper techniques, and shows how to
correct common errors; includes segments on ways
Women of the Wild West: Biographies From to identify priorities, establish goals, seize opportu-
Many Cultures by Ruth Pelz, a young adult book, nities, handle success, get the most out of practice
looks at eight women whose lives exemplify the often and games; gives information on recruitment and
overlooked contributions women from many cultures teamwork; and also gives an overview of the
made to American history. $6.95 pb, 0-940880-50-4; history of women’s basketball. The FBN staff (non-
$12.95 cl, -49-0. Open Hand Publishing, PO Box 22048, basketball players) were especially entertained by
Seattle WA 98122; 206-323-2187. Distributed by The the Nancy Lieberman-Cline/Martina Navratilova
Subterranean Company. photographs. $16.95 pb, 0-87322-610-0. Human
Kinetics, 1607 North Market Street, PO Box 5076,
“In the tradition of Alice Walker and Gloria Champaign IL 61825; 217-351-5076. Distributed by
Naylor, Be I Whole by Gita Brown is the choicest of Ingram and B&T.
87 January/February 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:27:01 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
In Power Dreamers: The Jocasta Complex Serpent's Tail/High Risk Books, 180 Varick Street,
Ursule Molinaro brings the mother and wife of Oedi- 10th Floor, New York NY 10014; 212-741-8500. Distrib-
pus to the forefront, allowing her to reclaim rightful uted by Consortium.
significance as matrilineal Queen of Thebes. Ruler,
mother, lover — defiant of gods’ wrath — Jocasta The twelve stories in Dat’s Love by Leonora
becomes an intelligent and compassionate actor as Brito range widely over time and character, age and
well as a courageous person caught in a conflict of background. From the surreal to the mundane, they
totem and taboo. The voices of Jocasta and the sex- are moving, funny, authentic and appealing. The
changing seer Tiresias, and the letters of Oedipus and narrators of two of the stories salvage their Black
Antigone, combine to tell of these 37 years in the stories from the predominantly white telling of
history of Thebes: how, by marrying her son, Jocasta history: an eighteenth-century grocer near death
became the woman without whom Oedipus has no reflects on slavery and servitude; in a story set in the
story. $16 cl, 0-929701-44-5. McPherson & Company, nineteenth- century, a woman contemplates how her
PO Box 1126, Kingston NY 12401; 914-331-5807. dark skin created a double-edged relationship with
Distributed by BP. white men. Looks good! $15.95 pb, 1-85411-136-1.
Dufour Editions, PO Box 7, Chester Springs PA
19425; 610-458-5005.
Set in pre-Stonewall Chicago (1959), Lucy &
The protaganist in House Rules, 15-year-old Lee, Mickey by Red Jordan Arobateau tells the story of two
expelled from boarding school and unwilling to go “low-class” dykes trying to succeed on skid row. Eliz-
home to an abusive father, escapes to a horse-show abeth Grindon writes in Mama Bears’ August
circuit where she becomes involved with a dangerous newsletter that “Reading Red Jordan Arobateauʻis like
rider, Tory, and a brother-and-sister team of horse reading a prayer-book interspersed with x-rated
trainers. The sister finds, in Lee, a new person on scenes of the raunchiest kind.” Arobateau has been
whom to practice her violent sexual habits, which are writing and self-publishing her work since the 70s.
sadly comfortable for Lee, who soon realizes that the It’s great to see her work get out to a wider, well-
oblivion of synthetic morphine isn’t enough to trans- deserved, audience. $6.95 pb, 1-56333-311-2. Hard
form her brutal world. “An incinerating first novel, Candy/Masquerade Books, 801 Second Avenue, New
House Rules is the debut of a wonderful new novelist York NY 10017. Distributed by BP, Alamo Square.
crackling with raw talent.” —Rita Mae Brown. $12.99
pb, 1-85242-413-3.
In Armed Response a perpetually amused,
downtown New Yorker goes to L.A. for her famous
uncle's funeral. While everyone else is obsessing Stealing Fire by Claudia Mauro is a moving vol-
over whether Bob Hope will pay his condolences, ume of prose and poetry which comments on
Ann wonders why she can’t stop tripping her Aunt everyday names, objects, and experiences to put them
Cherrie’s alarm system — the one which guarantees in a new light. Spiritual, humorous and realistic.
an “Armed Response.” “Will the guards really “Claudia’s work is gorgeous — big, gentle and alive
arrive with guns?” is one of the many questions she with the truth of having looked into the hearts of
asks herself throughout the novel. $12.99 pb, desire and hell and come out loving.” —Anita Mont-
1-85242-415-X. gomery. $12 pb, (no ISBN). 30% and free shipping for
Where Does Kissing End? by Kate Pullinger 5+. Whiteaker Press, 204 First Avenue South #3, Seattle
(who collaborated with Jane Campion on the novel- WA 98104; 206-382-7780 or 360-376-3263.
ization of The Piano) is a novel about obsession and
possession and asks an important question for the The contributors to (Hetero)sexual Politics, edited
‘90s: where does pleasure end and hurting begin. by Mary Maynard and June Purvis, discuss sexuality in
$12.99 pb, 1-85242-277-7. a diverse range of contexts, from hetero-sensibilities on
January/February 1996 88
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:27:01 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
fiction by Hawaiian writers for 16 years. Bananahe-
art and Other Stories: A Collection of Fiction by
Marie Hara explores nearly 100 years of the experi-
ences of Japanese women in Hawaii. Her characters
include picture brides, plantation workers, domestic
servants, and hapa-haole girls growing up in post-war
Makiki, as well as these women’s successful, but
often troubled, middle-class descendants. ($8 pb, 0-
Queer View Mirror: Lesbian and Gay Short 910043-33-7.) Tsunami Years by Juliet S. Kono (Hilo
Short Fiction, edited by James C. Johnstone and Karen Rains) expands her metaphor of tsunami in her new
X. Tulchinsky, collects 101 works of short short fiction volume of poetry exploring the turbulence of life,
by lesbian and gay male writers, whose contributions dealing with a mother-in-law afflicted with
are snapshots of queer life. With glimpses from the Alzheimer’s disease, the death of a tr ouObl ed Cso n, Rand
queer point of view on topics such as sex, pol-
i at ci kc ns, o w r le el dig gi eo sn , t h a en d c o s mh mop op nin g g, r o t uh ni ds a wn it th ho inlo g ty he THE YYY
collective gay experience while celebrating its
diversity. $17.95 pb, 1-55152-026-5. Arsenal
Pulp Press, 103-1014 Homer Street, Vancouver
BC Canada V6B 2W9; 604-687-4233. Distrib- A dewis Women's CELEBRATION OF PASSOVER
uted by InBook.
DY
The National Gay and Lesbian Task Force ELAn MOuE AND REnEcca SCHWARTZ
(NGLTF) has teamed up with the National
Freedom To Marry Coalition to create To Have
and To Hold: Organizing for Our Right To
Marry, an organizing tool geared to teach
activists how to win and keep our freedom to
lm ata er sr ty . i n T fh ore m e aa ts iy on-t o o-u ns e m w aro rr ik ag ek i ct a sc eo sn ; t hai on ws: tt ohe t P N E PT RZ
start a marriage group in your community;
handy tips; convenient checklists and sound-
b hi ot se ts i; l e h o lew g i st lao t i of nig ; h pt r eR sa sd i sc ta rl a tR egig ieh st ; a Tt ht ea c k Ms a ra -nd A g 2: A YYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYY YYY YYYYY Y YYYY YV YYY YY
riage Resolution; and organizing resources. $6 IASS s V
and free shipping for 10+ copies. National Gay
and Lesbian Task Force, 2320 17th Street NW,
Washington DC 20009; 202-332-6483, fax 202-
332-0207.
Bamboo Ridge Press, a non-profit literary
quarterly, has published poetry, drama and REEERE AEAII IE KIAI IIIT IAS A A AAA AK AAAA A AEA AAEE KA AAAA KAIA III
89 January/February 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:27:01 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
the long-term consequences of natural disasters. ($10 Gay Men’s Lit, continued from page 70.
pb, 0-910043-35-3.) Saturday Night at the Pahala up the entirety of gay culture and community in the
Theatre, poems by Lois-Ann Yamanaka, “explores 1990s, but this hefty collection of essays and snippets,
the heart of existence and, from the depths, emerges graphics and quotations, and facts and facts and more
language that uncovers a mother tongue — a lan- facts, is an invaluable resource and a hearty good read.
guage triumphant and rich in Native rhythms and $24.95 cl, 0-446-51822-0, Warner.
compelling insights.” ($8 pb, 0-910043-31-0.) Long Road to Freedom edited by Mark Thomp-
Bamboo Ridge Press, PO Box 61781, Honolulu son — Drawn from 25 years of The Advocate,
HI 96839; 808-599-4823. Distributed by Small Press America’s oldest gay magazine, this coffee table-
Distribution. sized anthology includes original essays as well as
news, reviews, interviews, photos and more ex-
cerpted from the magazine. The result is an essential
(and entertaining) historical document, tracing gay
life from Stonewall into the 90s. $24.95 cl, 0-312-
Basali!: Stories By and About Women in 13114-3, St. Martin’s.
Lesotho is edited by K. Limakatso Kendall. Basali!
means women! and is one of the most common ex-
clamations in the Sesotho language. Usually uttered
by a woman and delivered with a laugh, a shaking
of the head, or a clapping of hands, Basali! evokes My apologies for missing the last issue; I
Basotho women’s admiration and wonderment for returned in mid-September from a three week-motor-
themselves and each other. These stories, told in ing (and ferry) holiday through British Columbia,
Sesotho-ised English, reveal a way of life and a way Alaska and the Yukon — relaxed, with half a column
of perceiving experience that is unique in African already on the computer and an easy coast towards
literature. About half the tales were first told orally our September 30 year-end inventory, thanks to great
in Sesotho by women who do not speak or write prep work from the staff while I was out of the way.
English, then re-told by their English-speaking And then: my first morning back, I turn on the of-
friends, nephews, sons and daughters. The stories fice/inventory computer to the sound of rattling,
offer glimpses of traditional healers, circumcision, grinding and then silence; soon after, the fax machine
schools, witches, bride-prices, and extended rural beeps frantically for a few seconds and then dies; not
family life. There are families disrupted by migrant much later, the toilet first plugs up and then backs up
labor, women and men brutalized by apartheid, (and, later, when the plumber is fixing it, explodes
teen-agers who violate tradition, and middle-class and spews sewage into the store), all while a carpen-
office-workers whose rural families live by a differ- ter is drilling and sawing and hammering to repair
ent clock than the one that ticks for them. Each story our collapsing back porch. Fax, toilet and porch are
focuses on the decisions women make, and the up and running by day’s end; the computer, for sev-
actions they take to protect and to provide for eral intricate and best-forgotten reasons, isn't back
themselves and their children and to care for the until just a week before inventory — with several
people they love. (Sorry no price), 0-86980-918-0. days of missing (and heretofore perfect) data. So in-
University of Natal Press, PO Box X01, Scottsville stead of polishing up a column, I was re-selling books
3209, South Africa. North American publishers inter- and re-receiving invoices and compressing several
ested in obtaining American rights to this book weeks of pre-inventory work into just a few days.
should contact Margery Moberly at University of And because of a series of pre-crash corrupted back-
Natal Press, PO Box X01, Scottsville, Piete- ups, I wasn’t able even to retrieve what I had written.
rmaritzburg, 3209, South Africa or e-mail at May I say that the computer ate my homework? The
Moberly@press.unp.ac.za. Distributed by Interna- lesson learned: always save to disk, always print a
tSiontarl eSpeectia,li ze dP Booork t Sleravniceds, 5 8O04 R NE H9as7sa2lo13. O haord f cop y . Aynd o chueckr an d dboublae-cchekck tuhe p quaslit.y O
January/February 1996 90
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:27:01 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
m
E,
By Mev Miller and Jenn Tust her 80 years, as did the lifestyle and culture of the
BRITISH FILM INSTITUTE Cr0ee - of7 n7ort3her5n O-nt1ari3o d6uri9ng - th8at . t im e. — $12.9M5 pb,M
In Script Girls: Women Screenwriters in Holly-
wood Lizzie Francke traces the history of women in ROWMAN & LITTLEFIELD PUBLISHERS
tanhde sfcorreteunnwers i toinf g w pormofenes s iwohno — “ p uloto kpienng taot stchree e nli.v”es Femin iI sn t ED tha in csa i nE . E vB eru ys dh ayn e Ll il f’ es e“ leN vea ng g fi en mg in” i st Questions:
Script Girls focuses on a range of writers whose philosophers explore contemporary ethical issues —
careers highlight some of the salient issues for women autonomy, responsibility, sexual harassment, women
as the Hollywood film industry developed and in the military, new technologies for reproduction,
changed. Complete with extensive interviews with surrogate motherhood, pornography, abortion, co-
women working today — including Nora Ephron, erced birth control, cosmetic surgery, anorexia
Callie Khouri, and Caroline Thompson — plus film- nervosa, in-vitro fertilization, feminist masochism
ographies, this book puts women writers back into the and non-feminist women — that uniquely affect the
picture. $18.95 pb, 0-85170-478-6; $45 cl, -477-8. Dis- lives of women. Discussion questions at the end of
tributed by Indiana University Press. —JT each article make the text useful for students. $21.95
pb, 0-8476-8007-X; $53.50 cl, -8006-1. Roman and
INTE WR o- mA eM E inR I tC hA N D erE icV asE L BO riP dM ginE gN tT B GA enN dK L2itt0lef7iel0d 6Pu;b lis h8ers0, 0472-04 B6ost2on- 6Wa4y,2 L0an.h am —MDJT
n e A m : h e er
Gap examines the respective roles of men and
women in development — roles determined not by
biology but by social, political and economic influ-
ences that can be affected by policies and strategies.
This book focuses on the status of women in social
policy, the labor force, the political process and the
environmental policy, examines how the concept of
gender equity could better be incorporated into
mainstream development policy. $14.95 pb, 0-
9U406n02i-9v8-e9.r Dsisittriybut e d P bry eJsohsn.s H—opkiJnsT
MCGILL-QUEENS UNIVERSITY PRESS
Ellen Smallboy: Glimpses of a Cree Woman’s
Life by Regina Flannery is an intimate story of a
Cree woman's life among the old ways of the James
Bay Cree. Born in 1853, she led a semi-nomadic life
which dramatically changed during the course of
Volume 18 Number 5
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:27:01 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
CORNELL UNIVERSITY PRESS NEW YORK UNIVERSITY PRESS
First published in 1918, Out of the Shadow: A In Power in Struggle: Feminism, Sexuality and
Russian Jewish Girlhood on the Lower East Side by the State author Davina Cooper draws on feminist,
Rose Cohen conveys a sense of the aspirations and poststructuralist and Marxist theory to develop a new
frustrations of the author’s family’s journey from framework for understanding power relations in re-
Tsarist Russia to New York City. Cohen reports her productive technology, queer activism, municipal
youthful impression of daily life in the tenements and politics and the regulation of lesbian reproduction.
of working conditions in garment sweatshops and Power in Struggle explores the relationship between
domestic service. She recalls how, while confronting power, sexuality and the state, and provides a radical
setbacks caused by poor health and dilemmas posed re-thinking of these concepts and their interactions.
by courtship, she finds opportunities to educate her- “Sexual politics must recognize the sexualization of
self. Cohen also records the gradual weakening of her everyday life. And sex should be neither exclusively
family’s commitment to religion as they find their the concern of a young, educated elite, nor shuttered
way from the shadow of poverty toward the main- as - a p1rivat5e af2fair.6” $1-7.955 pb,. 0 -81 47-1—527-3; $J50 dcTl,
st$rea3m 7 of. 5Am0er,ic an l-ife3. 1$145.956 p-b, 5 0-.80 1 4-8—268-2J; cTl
DUKE UNIVERSITY PRESS
French feminist theorist and literary critic
Naomi Schor revisits some of feminist theory's most OXFORD UNIVERSITY PRESS
widely discredited objects, essentialism and univer- For those desiring to understand contemporary
salism, in Bad Objects. This collection of essays urban violence, one place to start is with history. The
engages Anglo American feminist theory, Freud and Mysterious Death of Mary Rogers: Sex and Culture
psychoanalytic theory, French poststructuralists, in Nineteenth-Century New York by Amy Gilman
and French fiction by or about women, and also Srebnick may not appeal to a general reading audi-
addresses issues including bilingual identity, profes- ence. However, it will be interesting to those wanting
sional controversies, female fetishism, and literature to understand the intersections between sex, violence,
and gender, concluding with a meditation on the murder, and urban social complexities through study-
fucturle ,of f em-ini1sm.6 $185.951 pb-, 10-82.2 3-1 69—3-5; $4J5.95T ing a case history of the sensational, unsolved murder
of Mary Rogers. $25 cl, 0-19-506237-X. —MM
PURDUE UNIVERSITY PRESS
I Shepherdess: Notes From the Field by Joan Jarvis
MANCHESTER UNIVERSITY 1 PRESS Ellison promises to be one of those delightful “profes-
sional, academic, city woman goes to the farm” type
The contributors to Male Bias in the Develop- books. Ellison, mother of two active children and re-
ment Process, edited by Diane Elson, argue that the search associate in biophysical sciences, tells a sensitive
development process is marked by male bias — tale of life and learning on a sheep farm. It contains
ill-founded and unjustified asymmetries that operate humor and some sadness and yov'll learn lots about
in favor of men and against women. Leading writers sheep behavior. $14.95 pb, 1-55753-070-X. —MM
in the gender and development field analyze the
forms taken by male bias, its foundations, the way it RUTGERS UNIVERSITY PRESS
changes over time, and the possibilities for overcom- In contrast to the more commonplace images of
ing it. The cases considered cover both urban and rural Blacks as slaves during the eighteenth century,
settings; agriculture, industry and services; self-em- Gretchen Gerzina shows in Black London that the
ployment and wage-employment in Africa, Asia and work of all kinds of artists, poets, playwrights and
Latin America. $24.95 pb, 0-7190-4230-5. Distributed novelists reveals that not everyone in London was
in the U.S. by St. Martin’s Press. 5J white. In fact there were Black pubs and clubs, balls
January/February 1996 92
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:27:01 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFRENI A
PiP E
for Blacks only, Black churches and organizations for Daring to Dream: Utopian Fiction By United
helping Blacks who were out of work or in trouble. States Women Before 1950, edited by Carol Farley
Many Blacks were prosperous and respected, others Kessler, recovers three full-length utopias never before
were successful stewards or men of business, but reprinted in their entirety, four short utopian stories
many more were servants or were forced to turn to and significant excerpts from five utopian novels —
begging, prostitution or theft. $29.95 cl, 0-8135-2259-5. providing an overview of utopias by women in the U.S.
In “Favored Strangers”: Gertrude Stein and from texts not otherwise easily available. Daring to
Her Family by Linda Wagner-Martin shows the Dream “provides a foreground for, and feminist revi-
reader a Gertrude Stein rarely seen before. Piecing sion of, Edward Bellamy's Looking Backward (1888), as
together the best-known versions of Stein’s life, well as the imaginative underpinnings for the late
Wagner-Martin enhances the picture by also show- twentieth-century outpouring of feminist utopias.”
ing Stein in her earlier years and looks at the Also includes an annotated bibliography of utopias by
foundation that helped form her career. We see Stein, women writers in the United States from 1836-1988.
the youngest member of her German Jewish patriar- $17.95 pb, 0-8156-2655-X; $49.95 cl, -2654-1. JT
sc oh ra tl f ofam fil ey m, i na in s t ,u n ad e mrg er da id cau la t e st ua dt e nR ta d ac tl i f Jf oe h, n a sn H o od pd kins lg.
U sun 0i rv ve -r is vit 8oy r, 1 a — l 3e s b ai 5 a n m -a un ld 2t il -o 1fve ar c6, e ta e9n d a - r pt e6 c ro sll .oe nc t .o r , $ J 3a 4 .w 9Ta 5r cl, TEMPLE UNIVERSITY PRESS 1 |
The contributors to Women of Color in U.S.
SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY PRESS
Society, edited by Maxine Baca Zinn and Bonnie
Faith and Freedom: Women’s Human Rights in Thorton Dill, examine the convergence of race, class
the Muslim World, edited by Mahnaz Afkhami, is a and gender as interlocking systems of oppression in
study emphasizing Muslim women’s human rights the experiences of women of color: African Ameri-
and exploring the existing patriarchal structures and cans, Latinas, Native Americans and Asian
processes that present women’s human rights as Americans. Topics discussed include social conditions
contradictory to Islam. Academics and activists, that simultaneously oppress women of color and pro-
most of whom live in the Muslim world, discuss the vide sites for opposition, the interface between social
major issues facing women of the region as they institutions and cultural practices, and a comparative
enter the twenty-first century. The contributors dem- perspective on the lives and work of women of color.
onstrate how the cultural segregation of women, $18.95 pb, 1-56639-106-7; $44.95 cl, -105-9.
contradictory and conflicting legal codes, and the A literary study, Bridging the Americas: The
monopoly on the interpretation of religious texts Literature of Toni Morrison, Paule Marshall and
held by a select group of male theologians have Gayle Jones by Stellamaris Coser, examines the
resulted in domestic and political violence against “inter-American” characteristics in the novels of these
women and the suppression of women’s rights. three contemporary Black women writers from the
Faith and Freedom focuses on the ways and means U.S.. Coser argues that these authors redefine the
of empowering Muslim women to participate in the boundaries between the Americas, while they reinter-
general socialization process as well as in imple- pret ethnic and sexual identity, overlap issues of race,
menting and evaluating public policy. $17.95 pb, class and nationality, and reinvent history and iden-
0-8156-2668-1; $39.95 cl, -2667-3. tity. $18.95 pb, 1-56639-267-5; $49.95 cl, -266-7. —JT
Volume 18 Number 5 93 January/February 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:27:01 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
UNIVERSITY OF ARIZONA PRESS Deborah G. Plant is one of the first full-length books
Luminaries of the Humble by Elizabeth Woody, which looks at Hurston’s fiction in order to understand
an enrolled member of the Confederated Tribes of her personal philosophies. Plant takes issue with no-
Warm Springs, Oregon, focuses on the land and tions that Hurston was a feminist and places her works
people of the Pacific Northwest, especially the Plateau in the context of the politics of resistance and African
Indian tribes and the contemporary issues that affect American folk culture. $25.95 cl, 0-252-02183-5. —MM
their lives. This collection of poetry offers images of In Jump at the Sun: Zora Neale Hurston’s
the natural environment, while also conveying the Cosmic Comedy John Lowe traces connections be-
author's deep personal insights, experiences and un- tween Hurston’s life and the cultural, historical, and
derstanding of the relationship between people and literary events that affected her, revealing the sources
their land. “Infinitely far from the clueless wordgames of her humor and its serious purpose. Lowe notes that
of mandarin poets, rich, strange, a fractured tongue “the humor in Hurston’s writing was a vehicle for
remaking itself to speak truth, this is poetry doing the subversive observations on intolerable conditions, yet
w $or 1k 5 o .f 9 p 5o et ry p, b le ,g is la 0tin -g 8.”— 1U 6rs 5ul -a 1 K 4. 6Le 5Gu -in 8. . —JT ii ct a lla yls o c rp er ao tv ivid e e d a n da j eo xy uo bu es r a nco tm fm oe lkn t a cr uy lt u o rn e t oh fe a nparadox-
oppressed people.” $19.95 cl, 0-252-02110-X. JT
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA PRESS
Engendering the Chinese Revolution: Radical UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA PRESS
Women, Communist Politics, and Mass Movements Second Life: A West Bank Memoir by Janet
in the 1920s by Christina Kelley Gilmartin portrays Varner Gunn contains rich accounts of the “small
the ways in which women’s emancipation was a cen- news” of daily life in Deheishe, the refugee camp
tral goal of the Chinese Communist government but where Mohammad Abu Aker, a Palestinian teenager
one that was compromised by central aspects of the who was critically shot during a stone-throwing dem-
dominant patriarchy. Feminist activists interested in onstration, lived with his family. The years between
radical political movements can learn much from this Mohammad’s injury, during which he was deemed a
history. $15 pb, 0-520-20346-1. —MM “living martyr” of the Intifada, and his death at the age
UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO PRESS o bf o 1 o9 k i .n 1 $99 10 9, .a 9re 5 r e cco lu ,n t ed 0 - i 8n 1 t 6hi 6s - d 2e 5ep 3ly 0 -p 1er .s o n —al JT
Our Vampires, Ourselves by Nina Auerbach is
“sometimes friendly or bewitchingly erotic, some-
times repellent, sometimes ravenous, vampires
embody their societies’ fears and forbidden dreams. In
this wry, original book, Nina Auerbach shows how UNIVERSITY OF NEBRASKA PRESS
every age embraces the vampire it needs, and at the Candy Story by Marie Redonnet recounts a tur-
same time, gets the vampire it deserves, concluding on bulent year in the life of Mia, a young woman whose
a hopeful note by finding vampires reborn in a female apparent calm is perpetually threatened by inner
tradition.” $22 cl, 0-226-03201-9. -FBC doubts and outer catastrophes. This is the fourth novel
UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS PRESS b$y 1 R0ed on npetb p,u b li0sh-ed8 b0y3 U2n-iv8er9sit5y 8 o-f 8 N.e b ra—ska.MM
Power of the Weak: Studies on Medieval Tomorrow's Tomorrow, originally published in
Women, edited by Jennifer Carpenter and Sally-Beth 1971, is a sociological study of Black girls growing up
MacLean, contains essays which explore power and in the city. In this edition, Joyce A. Ladner updates her
independence or women’s relation to power during research and considers the differences and similarities
medieval times. It studies the influences of queens, of Black girls’ lives, then and now. Ladner spent four
holy women, mothers, widows, Jewish conversas and years, at the end of the 60s, interviewing, observing
others. $14.95 pb, 0-252-06504-2. and socializing with more than a hundred girls living
Every Tub Must Sit on Its Own Bottom: The in the Pruitt-Igoe housing project in St. Louis. Chal-
Philosophy and Politics of Zora Neale Hurston by lenged by preconceived academic ideas and her own
January/February 1996 94
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:27:01 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFRONTA
w
past, Ladner examined the expectations and aspira- and Arabic traditions, Men, Women and God(s):
tions of these representative Black girls and their Nawal El Saadawi and Arab Feminist Poetics by
feelings about parents, boyfriends, marriage, preg- Fedwa Malti-Douglas will be a welcome contribution.
nancy and child-rearing. She was interested in any Here, Saadawi’s writings are made accessible as her
significant disparity between aspirations and the feminism, theology and political beliefs are clearly
resources to achieve them. According to Ladner, “The explained within cultural and historical context. $17
total misrepresentation of the Black community and pb, 0-520-20072-1.
the various myths which surround it can be seen in Delinquent Daughters: Protecting and Polic-
microcosm in the Black female adolescent.” $12 pb, ing Adolescent Female Sexuality in the United
0-8032-7956-6. States, 1885-1920 by Mary Odem is one of those
In Separatism and Women’s Community Dana academic books which initially appears to be narrow
R. Shugar reviews debates in separatist theory, histor- and unappealing but, upon deeper examination,
ical narratives by members of separatist collectives, proves to be quite accessible and interesting. For
and utopian novels that envision how collectives those interested in teenage girls’ sexuality, differ-
might be formed. Shugar compares the ideas and ences in class and racial experiences within the legal
proposals of theorists — including Robin Morgan, system, the conflicts created when protection be-
Shulamith Firestone, Joyce Cheney, Joan Nestle, comes policing, and a historical look at how women
Ti-Grace Atkinson and the Radicalesbians — with the are treated by the law with regard to sexual expres-
experiences of women from collectives as diverse as sion, this book sheds some light on moral reform and
Cell 16, the Combahee River Collective, the Gutter le0gal - pr8ote0ctio7n 8for- g4irls5 a2nd 8 wo-me0n. .$ 14. 95— pb,MM
Dyke Collective, the Seattle Collective, the Bloodroot
Collective and the Lavender Woman Collective of
Chicago. $30 c], 0-8032-4244-1.
Urban Survival: The World of Working-Class
Women by Ruth Sidel highlights issues — the diffi-
culty and complexity of combining work and family, UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA PRESS
inadequate and insensitive human services, employ- In Television Culture and Women’s Lives:
mentinsecurity, racism, sexual harassment and fear of thirtysomething and the Contradictions of Gender,
crime — which are urgent problems in the lives of Margaret Heide explores the complex relationship be-
many Americans, particularly women. Although con- tween the gender conflicts played out in the scripts of
ditions have vastly improved since the days of the popular television show thirtysomething and the
sweatshops, working women are still likely to be un- real-life conflicts experienced by “baby-boomer”
derpaid, overworked and without adequate women viewers. Combining a cultural/aesthetic as-
resources. In Urban Survival eight working-class sessment of thirtysomething episodes and interviews
women of different ages and races speak with pride with 40 women viewers, Heide challenges theories
and independence about their daily reality, their that viewers passively absorb mass media messages.
hopes and fears. $10 pb, 0-8032-9239- 2. =T. $12.95 pb, 0-8122-1534-6; $28.95 cl, -3253-4.
UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA PRESS tives S cu rs ea an te d L . b ySm Ait fh r i ce ax na m Ain mes e r it ch ane s p iu nb l i Sc i c kh e a al nth d i Tn ii rt ei da- of
For fans of Nawal El Saadawi who would like to Being Sick and Tired: Black Women’s Health
understand her works within the context of Islamic Activism in America, 1890-1950, arguing that health
Volume 18 Number 5 95 January/February 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:27:01 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
improvement was a cornerstone of the early Black civil
University Presses rights activity in the U.S.. Smith uses oral histories,
International government records and manuscript collections at his-
Women’s Voices Titles torically Black colleges to show that women were at the
heart of health reform in their work — as midwives,
These titles were reviewed in FBN in 1995. Listed nurses, teachers, home demonstration agents, club
by title, publisher, issue. women and sorority members — carrying out commu-
nity health work and sustained projects that were part
Active Voices: Women in Jewish Culture, of the National Negro Health Movement. $16.95 pb,
University of Illinois, May/June 95. 0-8122-1449-8; $34.95 cl, -3237-2. —JT
Australian Gay and Lesbian Writing,
Oxford University, March/April 95.
Biopolitics: Feminist and Ecological Reader, I
Zed Books, Nov/Dec 95. 1
Broken Silence: Voices of Japanese UNIVERSITY OF TORONTO PRESS
Feminism, University of Arizona, The essays in Feminism in Women’s Detective
Sept/Oct 95. Fiction, edited by Glenwood Irons, grapple with a
Conceiving the New World Order, wide range of issues important to the female detective,
University of California, Nov/Dec 95. including gender issues and the female sleuth’s suit-
A Cross and a Star, ability for the job. Some of the essays see the female
University of New Mexico, May/June 95. detective as an important force in popular fiction, but
Crossing the Snow Bridge, many also question whether or not the woman detec-
Ohio State University Press, Nov/Dec 95. tive is a positive model for feminists. $19.95 pb, 0-
Difficult Women, Artful Lives, 8020-6954-1; $50 cl, -0519-5.
Johns Hopkins, May/June 95. The contributors to Challenging Codependency:
Entiendes?: Queer Readings, Hispanic Feminist Critiques, edited by Marguerite Babcock and
Writing, Duke University, March/April 95. Christine McKay, argue that “codependency theory is
Gender and Agricultural Development, essentially misogynist in nature [holds women partly
University of Arizona, Sept/Oct 95. responsible for perpetuating the alcoholism and addic-
Home Girls: Chicana Literary Voices, tion of their male partners and is] — the result of a male
Temple University, Nov/Dec 95. backlash against feminism,” explore the history of
Latin American Women Writers, codependency theory, look at reasons for its growing
State University of New York, Sept/Oct 95. popularity in medical-model politics, and question the
Rachel Calof’s Story, validity of popular addictions philosophy and the
Indiana University Press, Sept/Oct 95. quality of the.scholarship that supports those theories.
Salome of the Tenements, $19.95 pb, 0-8020-7230-5; $60 cl, -0440-7.
University of Illinois, Sept/Oct 95. In Women Editing Modernism: “Little” Maga-
Suffrage and Beyond, zines and Literary History, Jayne Marek examines the
New York University Press, May/June 95. work of seven women editors — Harriet Monroe,
Tituba: Reluctant Witch of Salem, Alice Corbin Henderson, Marianne Moore, and lovers
New York University Press, Sept/Oct 95. Margaret Anderson, Jane Heap, H.D. (Hilda Doolit-
Women in the Latin American Development tle), Bryher (Winifred Ellermann) — whose varied
Process, Temple University, May/June 95. activities, often behind the scenes and in collaboration
Women Singing in the Snow, with other women, contributed substantially to the
University of Arizona, May/June 95. development of modernist literature. Another insight-
Wo m Ze en d’s R Bebe oll oio kn s a ,n d N Isl oam vi /c D M eem c or y 9, 5. —MM f tw$ul e 3n l to i4o ek t.h 9-a ct e 5n t th ue r y e c x Pp laa r,t ir s i .a t $e -1 41w .9o 59m e p3n b’ ,s 7 0c --o 8m 513m 1.-u 0n 8 i 5t —4y - 3 i ;n J ea Trly
January/February 1996 96
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:27:01 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsim envii OT k
UNIVERSITY PRESS OF NEW ENGLAND
In honor of Anna Halprin’s 75th birthday, ety. $29.50 cl, 0-8139-1553-8. —JT
Moving Toward Life: Five Decades of Transforma-
tional Dance brings together Halprin’s writings and WASHINGTON STATE UNIVERSITY PRESS
interviews in book form. One of the most important In Iron in Her Soul: Elizabeth Gurley Flynn and
innovators in contemporary dance, Halprin has the American Left, Helen Camp details 50 years of
spent her career exploring new forms and uses for Flynn’s involvement in humanitarian and social causes.
dance, bringing dance to new audiences and envi- Camp uses Flynn’s personal papers, memoirs of friends
ronments, and reconnecting dance with its roots in and colleagues, FBI files, interviews and other impor-
myth and ritual. $19.95 pb, 0-8195-6286-6. —MM tant unpublished materials to tell about her life. Flynn
was the leader of the Industrial Workers of the World,
UNIVERSITY PRESS OF VIRGINIA the founder of the American Civil Liberties Union and
Drawing on an unusually rich array of fields — the first woman to chair the American Communist
feminist social history, linguistics, folklore, literary the- Party. $28 pb, 0-87422-106-4; $40 cl -105-6. —JT
ory, African American studies and Native American
studies — Nineteenth-Century Women Learn to Write,
edited by Catherine Hobbs, explores the gendered na-
ture of literacy education in the nineteenth century.
During this time literacy became a key element in the WAYNE STATE UNIVERSITY PRESS
social transformation to Victorian culture with its cult of Odyssey of Exile: Jewish Women Flee the Nazis
true womanhood advocating piety, purity, domesticity for Brazil edited by Katherine Morris contains the
and submissiveness. Both Black and white women re- memoirs and stories of nine educated women from
sisted the intended uses of literacy and fought for social the German middle class. The result is a sensitive and
reform — producing a women’s movement at the end compelling portrait of German Jewish women who
of the century with such power that its like was not seen arrived in South America to face the challenge of
again until the women’s rights movement of the 1960s adjusting to Brazil's patriarchal culture, an unstable
and "70s. $47.50 cl, 0-8139-1605-4. economy and a tropical climate. Biographies placed in
In The Politics of Color in the Fiction of Jessie a historical context, these are the stories of average
Fauset and Nella Larsen Jacquelyn Y. McLendon women coping with persecution and immigration.
looks at Fauset’s Plum Bun (1929) and Comedy: Ameri- $18.95 pb, 0-8143-2563-7. —MM
can Style (1933) and Larsen’s Quicksand (1928) and Broken Patterns: Professional Women and the
Passing (1929), finding them revisionary and subver- Quest for a New Feminine Identity by Anita M. Harris
sive. McLendon contends that Fauset and Larsen “examines the complex relationships women share
attempted to blur the lines of distinction between with their mothers and grandmothers and considers
classes and to counter racist representations of Black- how those relationships and society's changing atti-
ness and Black female sexuality by satirizing the tudes shape the experiences of professional women.
middle class and using the tragic mulatto and passing Journalist Anita Harris combines personal stories of
as metaphors in their work. Focusing on the psychol- professional women with historical and psychological
ogy of Black women, Fauset and Larsen brought up research to offer a new understanding of women’s issues
issues of identity and difference for both Blacks and around work and mother-daughter relationships.”
women and insisted on the authenticity of the Black $17.95 pb, 0-8143-2551-3; $39.95 cl, -03868- 8. —FBC O
Volume 18 Number 5 97 January/February 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:27:01 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
New in paperback!
The Oxford Book of Modern Women’s Stories
Edited by PATRICIA CRAIG
“A lavish, diverse collection of stories....Included are works by the likes of Edith Wharton,
Virginia Woolf, and Eudora Welty, as well as works by more contemporary writers such as
Margaret Atwood, Alice Munro, and Amy Tan....Stunning.”—Booklist
544 pp., $13.95
First Ladies
Expanded Edition
BETTY BOYD CAROLI
“Impressive....Intelligent and perceptive....[An] engrossing, informative book.”
—The Philadelphia Inquirer (praise for the first edition)
In this expanded edition, Caroli covers all thirty-eight women from Martha Washington to our
three most recent First Ladies: Nancy Reagan, Barbara Bush, and Hillary Rodham Clinton.
496 pp.; 46 illus., $15.95
An Uncommon Soldier
The Civil War Letters of Sarah Rosetta Wakeman, alias Pvt. Lyons Wakeman,
153rd Regiment, New York State Volunteers, 1862-1864
LAUREN COOK BURGESS
“There may be no more unvarnished and eloquent record of how American women went to
war in the 1860s.”—Smithsonian Magazine
136 pp.; 21 illus., $9.95
Goddesses in World Mythology
A Biographical Dictionary
MARTHA ANN &
DOROTHY MYERS IMEL
Offering unprecedented access to information on over 11,000 goddesses, nymphs, demons,
and deified women, this around the world journey explores hundreds of cultures that have
worshipped female divinities.
608 pp.; 100 illus., $16.95
ENNER &
HISEOURSE aVat aTe) aAa teeke a AR SOE
OXFORD PAPERBACKS • OXFORD UNIVERSITY PRESS http://www.oup-usa.org
January/February 1996 98 Volume 18 Number 5
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:27:01 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Why Can't a Man Be More Like a Cat? by
Antonia van der Meer and Linda Konner answers an
BALLANTINE age-old question with humor and illustrations. $7.95
In Nature and Other Mothers: Personal Stories pb, 0-440-50582-8, DTP, February.
of Women and the Body of Earth Brenda Peterson Windy City Blues: VI Warshawski Stories by
(Living by Water) combines her skills as storyteller and Sara Paretsky contains nine stories featuring one of my
nature writer, exploring the healing vital symbiosis favorite heroines. $19.95 cl, 0-385-31502-3, Delacorte.
between the sacred, sensual body of our earth and the Female Problems: An Unhelpful Guide by
feminine — an intimacy which instructs, inspires and Nicole Hollander is another wonderful collection
sustains humans. Peterson focuses on the feminine from the convoluted mind of Hollander. $9.95 pb,
body of earth and women, of animals, human and 0-440-50686-7, DTP.
nonhuman, weaving a story of the bond between Red Hot Mamas: Coming Into Our Own at Fifty
niatnuree an d P ouursbelvlesi. s $1h2 ipnb, g0-4 4 9-G9096r7-o0, u Baplla.n t- JI by Colette Dowling presents dozens of women Dowl-
ing interviewed who are discovering their power and
vitality at mid-life. Her previous titles are The
BANTAM, DOUBLEDAY, DELL Cinderella Complex and You Mean I Don't Have to Feel
Dancing Moons, by Nancy Wood, illustrated by This Way? $23.95 cl, 0-553-09059-3, Bantam, March.
Frank Howell], (a companion to Spirit Walker), is a gift Riding Shotgun by Rita Mae Brown features Cig,
book with poems and meditations by Wood following a 35-year-old widow and “mortgage challenged” sin-
the spiritual philosophy of the Pueblo Indians of New gle mother whose late husband’s infidelities are a hot
Mexico. If you've done well with Spirit Walker, give topicin her small Virginia town. She falls back in time
this a try. $22.50 cl, 0-385-32169-4, Doubleday. to 1699, and somehow comes to peace with her life.
Sudden Exposure: A Jill Smith Mystery by Sounds a bit disjointed? Rita Mae manages to pull it
Susan Dunlap is another mystery with a feminist pro- off — at least I got caught up and enjoyed the read.
tagonist, but it may be a hard sell in hardcover. $20.95 $22.95 c], 0-553-09605-2, Bantam, April.
c], 0-385-31025-0, Delacorte, March. l
Live the Life You Love in Ten Easy Step by Step
Lessons by Barbara Sher follows in the line of Wish- n
craft and I Could Do Anything if I Only Knew What It
Was. Live offers advice on how to live your dreams in The Conversation Begins: Mothers and
every aspect of your life. $10.95 pb, 0-440-50756-1, Daughters Talk About Living Feminism by Chris-
DTP, March. tina Looper Baker and Christina Baker Kline looks at
The Republican War Against Women: An Insid- feminist motherhood based on interviews with more
ers Report From Behind the Lines by Tanya Melich, than 60 prominent mothers and daughters. $22.95 cl,
the woman who co-founded the Republican women’s 0-553-09639-7, Bantam, May.
movement, should get some great publicity. $23.95 cl, A Woman Scorned: Acquaintance Rape on Trial
0-553-10014-9, Bantam, February. by Peggy Reeves Sanday looks at American sexual
99 January/February 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:27:01 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsculture and the politics of acquaintance rape, identify-
ing and examining the sexual stereotypes that
continue to obstruct justice and diminish women.
$23.95 cl, 0-385-47791-0, Doubleday, March.
And This Too Shall Pass by E. Lynn Harris is a
novel with sensitive treatment of many social issues
including sexual harassment, gay issues and alcohol-
ism. His previous titles have done well — mostly with
gay/straight men, but he does have a lesbian follow-
ing. $23.95 cl, 0-385-48030-X, Doubleday, March.
The Visiting Physician by Susan Richards
Betty Ford + Naomi Judd + Marian S Wu ris gha t n E de lmS ak n o . g Be t ty& Eadie Shreve is the story of a young woman doctor in a small
Susan J o Fa on r d B o Br ay les se n .k o N i+ k k S io p Gh iy ov aB nu nr in h , a m A d a» DE eli es ra b e . t h A r K dau tb hl e r R- oR do as ls e town full of suspicion and secrets. I haven’t seen it, but
Terry Tempest Williams + Alexandra Stoddard her writing is generally quite good. $23.95 cl, 0-385-
Made Mlei an re il y L n'E n Fg el re g u + s o nN e »ll EN lie zw abm eta hn R+ o bR ea rc th se l + N Mao am ryi R Je am cke sn teit 47701-5, Doubleday, March.
Adrienne Kaufmann + Corinne McLaughlin + Dawn English I'd wait for the paper of House Arrest by Mary
Fran c Je os a n V a Bu .g h Ca an m p+ b eJ llo a .n C H ha rl ii sf ta ix a n e. B No on rn thie r u S pt e i +n b Le ir ng d a + C J ala dn we e lG l o Fo ud la ll el r oM fo r wri os m. eH ne r i n w r ei xt ti rn eg m eis s v ite ur ay t i on ni sc e w a hn od l eh ae rr n u ts ou a l b e t lih ee vm ees
in themselves are very positive, but she generally sells
much better in paper. $22.95 cl, 0-385-47198-X,
Doubleday, May.
In the Wilderness: Coming of Age in Unknown
Country by Kim Barnes is an account of Barnes’
adolescence in small town Idaho in a fundamentalist
household. I enjoyed it. $22.50 cl, 0-385-47820-8,
Doubleday, May. — Dorothy Holland
Susan Griffin, the author of Pulitzer prize and
National Book Critics Circle Award nominee A Chorus
of Stones brings us The Eros of Everyday Life, a “bril-
liant and extraordinarily eloquent new collection of
essays on the relationship between feminism, nature,
and the evolution of Western culture.” $24.95 cl, 0-385-
47390-7, Doubleday. —FBC
Now in paper:
Revolutionary Tales: African American
Women’s Short Stories From the First Story to the
Present edited by Bill Mullen is an anthology of
African American women’s writings from 1859 to
present. Topics range from mob “justice” to domestic
abuse, from forgiveness and redemption to the power
of experience and memory. Contributors include Zora
Neale Hurston, Dorothy West, Nikki Giovanni, Ann
Petry, Toni Cade Bambara, Alice Walker and Terry
McMillan. $6.50 pb, 0-440-22082-3, Dell. —JT
Hardware: A Carlotta Carlyle Novel by Linda
Barnes will be out in paper in March. Barnes’ heroine
is a spunky feminist and her mysteries usually do well
100
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:27:01 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
: l sE
Ln. sE l5 si .ALI H
in women’s stores. $5.99 pb, (sorry no ISBN) Dell, BERKLEY
March. Donna Gillespie’s The Light Bearer, the product
Rock She Wrote: Women Write About Rock, of twelve yers of research into the history, culture and
Pop, and Rap by Evelyn McDonnell and Ann Powers mythology of classical Rome and the proto-Germanic
is an interesting collection, featuring female names in tribes, encompasses events spanning the reigns of the
music, from writers to critics to musicians themselves. Emperors Nero and Domitian. The heroine, a Chattian
$12.95 pb, 0-385-31250-4, Delta. tribeswoman takes the oath of a warrior, becoming a
The Outspoken Princess and the Gentle Knight: shield maiden to avoid being used as a pawn of
A Treasury of Modern Fairy Tales edited by Jack Roman diplomacy. Also a visionary, she lays battle
Zipes and illustrated by Stephane Poulin, contains strategies and leads her people during the Emperor
eight tales with a contemporary twist. $12.95 pb, 0- Domitian’s war against the Chattians in 83 AD. Even-
553-37514-8, Bantam, February. tually she is apprenticed to a powerful tribal
Love Awaits: African American Women Talk shamaness and joins an influential order of northern
About Sex, Love, and Life by Courtney Long — priestesses. “I was amazed to learn, through my many
young African American women discuss their rela- years of research, of the profound respect accorded to
tionships with African American men in hopes of women among the tribes of the north; I later learned
establishing a common ground — is sort of a non-fic- that many elements of the matrifocal cultures of Old
tion equivalent to Waiting to Exhale. $11.95 pb, Europe survived into this time and existed
0-553-37559-8, Bantam, March. simulataneoulsy with the warrior culture,” Gillespie
Banana Rose, Natalie Goldberg/’s first novel,tells wrote to feminist bookstores. The Light Bearer was
the story of a Brooklyn-born Jewish girl who moves to first issued with a cheesey sci-fi, sex-pot cover, but
Taos. $11.95 pb, 0-553-37513-X, Bantam, April. Berkley has promised to reissue it with a new im-
What It’s Like to Live Now by Meredith Maran proved cover. $15 pb, 788 pages, 0-425-14368-6. —JT
sold well for many stores, even in hardback — be sure
to stock it in paper. Maran explores the gap between
the dreams of the 60s and the realities of the 90s — one Zil:
of her realities is being a lesbian. $11.95 pb, 0-553-
37493-1, Bantam, April. CHRONICLE BOOKS
The Wedding by Dorothy West is a window into Voices of the Dream edited by Venice Johnson is
the rise of the Black middle class, as experienced by “a joyful celebration by and about African American
West, the last surviving member of the Harlem Re- women.” This brightly covered book combines quotes
naissance. $9.95 pb, 0-385-47144-0, Anchor, February. of wit and wisdom with reproductions of African
Defending Pornography: Free Speech, Sex and American women’s artwork. $12.95 cl, 0-8118-1113-1,
the Fight for Women’s Rights by Nadine Strossen adds February. An eight-copy counter display, $103.60, 0-
fuel to the discussion on pornography and censorship. 8118-9287-5.
Strossen is the President of the American Civil Liberties The Letters of Frida Kahlo, selected and edited
Union. $14 pb, 0-385-48173-X, Anchor, February. by Martha Zamora. In over 80 letters to Diego Rivera,
A Bridge Between Us by Julie Shigekuni is a her family, doctors, friends and lovers, Kahlo dis-
novel looking at four generations of Japanese Ameri- cusses her art, politics and health. Accompanied by
can women making their home in a large house in San illustrations. $17.95 cl, 0-8118-1124-7.
Francisco. $9.95 pb, 0-385-48227-2, Anchor, March. —Patty Callaghan
—Dorothy Holland Brigit Books
Volume 18 Number 5 101 January/February 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:27:01 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
DUTTON/VIKING W.H. FREEMAN
Rat Bohemia by Sarah Schulman “takes on the Strong Shadows: Scenes from an Inner-City
politics of family life in the age of AIDS and offers AIDS Clinic by Abigail Zuger, M.D.. “In a series of
hope in a world of despair. The stories of Rita, a rat emotionally charged, powerful stories based on her
exterminator, Killer, a career plant-waterer, and experiences, Abigail Zuger puts names, faces, and
David, a writer who is HIV-positive, bring to light the personal stories behind headlines and statistics of
unsettling ways in which gay people are abandoned inner-city HIV-positive cases. She offers an insider’s
by their families and the enormously creative and look into urban public health care, reminding us that
courageous ways in Which lesbians and gay men lead itis not sexual politics nor abstract principles at stake,
theDir liuves tdesptite o thisn loss..” $2 0.95— cl, 0-F525-B93790C-0, but human lives.” $22.95 cl, 0-7167-2916-4. —FBC
Dive by Stacey Donovan is a young adult novel HARCOURT BRACE
about Virginia Dunn’s empty suburban life which Susie Mee, the editor of Downhome: An Anthol-
suddenly becomes chaotic when her dog gets hit by a ogy of Southern Women Writers, writes in the
car, her best friend starts avoiding her, her mother’s introduction, “Within [the South's] diversity of voices
drinking worsens, her father becomes very sick, and and experiences lies a shared legacy: the act of speech
she falls in love with the new girl in her class. “V dives — of stories handed down in which a distinctive lan-
into the meaning of what is happening and finds there guage is honored, a language rich in Biblical and
arDe fewu easty atnsweors.” n $15.9.9 cl, 0-5—25-45154J-4, T regional contexts; the love of place — where individu-
als, relationships, and family histories not only matter
: B but buttress everyday life. Both are part of that rarest
and most indispensable groundspring of literature and
4i li memory. The memory of being ‘Downhome.” Con-
tributors include Dorothy Allison, Tina McElroy Ansa,
FABER & FABER Zora Neale Hurston, Flannery O'Conner and Alice
Unspeakable: The Rise of the Gay and Lesbian Walker. $16 pb, 0-15-600121-7. —JT
Press in America by Rodger Streitmatter explores the
major phases in the evolution of the gay male and
lesbian press while providing a window into the history Zil:
of the gay men’s and lesbian movement. Steitmatter
takes the reader from the era of McCarthyism to the HARPER COLLINS
militancy of the 60s, the Stonewall Rebellion, the liber- If You Can Raise Kids, You Can Get A Good Job
ality of the 70s, the attack from the religious right in the by Katherine Wyse Goldman is “an upbeat and posi-
early 80s, the AIDS epidemic and the anti-gay backlash, tive look at returning to the workforce.” Goldman has
to the outing of the 90s. Issues covered include ideolog- gathered stories from scores of mothers who have
ical inclusiveness, cutting-edge design, editorial returned to the workforce and found their niche. She
infighting, the compromises associated with advertis- sends returning mothers into the workplace empow-
ing revenue and the place of erotic imagery and explicit ered, confident and enthusiastic. $16 cl, 0-06-017338-6.
language. $27.95 cl, 0-571-19873-2. Kate Fillion “smashes sexual stereotypes and ex-
Hot Flashes: Women Writers on the Change of poses the truth about women’s sexual behavior” in
Life edited by Lynne Taetzsch is a collection of 20 Lip Service. She attacks the double standards and
personal essays and eight poems by well-known reveals how younger women today are reaping the
women writers on the experience of menopause. Con- benefits of the good fight fought by their older sisters.
tributors including Germaine Greer, Marge Piercy, (We finally get credit for something.) Backed up with
Gloria Steinem, Alma Luz Villanueva and Ellen research, interviews and critical interpretations of ac-
Gilchrist describe the physical, emotional and spiri- cepted statistics, Fillion argues that women are not
tu0al c-ha5nge7s as1soci-ate1d w9ith8 m7eno1paus-e. 6 $22..9 5 cl,=T powerless victims in the bedroom, the dormroom or
the workplace. $22 cl, 0-06-017290-8, February.
January/February 1996 102
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:27:01 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Iil.
llu
A new collection of 18 short stories by Ursula novel, Pawpaw Patch. Forty-year-old Chanell now
LeGuin, Unlocking the Air and Other Stories, ex- owns a beauty shop that is the social hub of the town.
plores the boundaries between realism and magical When friends and townspeople suddenly begin to shy
realism. Written over the last 13 years, these stories are away from her shop she discovers that rumor has it
gathered together for the first time. In these stories, that she is part Creole. On the verge of losing her
LeGuin finds the detail that reveals the strangeness of business and cast out by even her closest friends,
ordinary life or the unexpected depths of an ordinary Chanell finds a drastic way to force the town to turn
person. $21 cl, 0-06-017260-6. its face to the mirror of hatred. $22 cl, 0-06-017379-3,
Señora Honeycomb by Colombian writer Fanny March.
Buitrago is being compared to Like Water for Chocolate, Love, Again, Doris Lessing’s first novel in seven
but I would question those comparisons. It features years, promises to be “brilliant and controversial.”
the innocent, good-hearted orphan Teodora Vencejos Sixty-five-year old Sarah Durham falls in love with a
who is overjoyed when the handsome ne’er-do-well 28-year-old actor and later with a more suitable 35-
Don Galaor asks to marry her but fails to notice that year-old director and finds herself in a condition she
he is more interested in her money and carries on had thought the province of younger women.
torrid affairs behind her back. When Galaor’s spend- Lessing's protagonist must face the longing and sex-
thrift ways force her to leave Colombia, she finds ual desire, the grief, and all the other experiences of
work in a Madrid catering firm that makes anatomi- love despite her “advanced” age. $24 cl, 0-06-017687-
cally correct confectionery and other erotic goodies 3, April. —Sandi Torkildson
and receives an education both culinary and carnal A Room of One's Own
that gradually awakens her sexuality. $18 cl, 0-06-
0173653, February. HARPERCOLLINS \BASIC BOOKS
Also available in a Spanish language edition pa- Life After Johnnie Cochran: Why I Left the
perback for HarperLibros. $10 pb, 0-06-095159-1. Sweetest-talking, Most Successful Black Lawyer in
Februar y. L.A. by Barbara Cochran Berry, with Joanne Parrent,
is the story of the woman who put up with philander-
ing, physical abuse, mind games, put-downs, and
even a long-term white mistress before she grabbed
her two young daughters and her dignity and walked
Hood by Emma Donoghue, the author of Stir-fry, away from her 18-year marriage to L.A.’s most suc-
is a bittersweet lesbian romance. This is the story of cessful Black lawyer. The author explains why she
Pen O’ Grady who fell for tall, pale, inscrutable Cara, chose to ignore the received wisdom of those days
back at convent school in the late 1970s. Cara was among middle-class women that said, “No matter
engaged in unrequited love for someone else when what, you don’t leave a man who can pay the bills.”
Pen knew her but, when nothing else could comfort Gloria Steinem says “this book has a dignity and
Cara under the stress of exams, sex did and they lasting value that is a relief in the midst of all the O.J.
became “girlfriends of a sort.” When Cara diesin a car hype. It could be the one thing of quality to come out
accident, Pen is left with 14 years of baffling memories of this trial.” $18 cl, 0-465-03965-0. —JT
co],f 0 -a0n6- 0 1e7m11o0-t3i,o nMaalrlcyh . complex intimate S $22 sheds M no et wh e r li g hLo t v e o/ nM o tt hh ee r a m H ba it ve a l eb ny t R fo eezs lii nk ga s P ta hrk ate r moth-
Chanell Foster, born and raised in Cornerville, ers have toward their children. Parker illustrates how
Georgia, is the heroine of Janice Daugharty’s new a mother’s desire for devotion co-exists with the
103 January/February 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:27:01 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
impulse to hurt and desert, and argues that these HARPERPERENNIAL
ambivalent feelings are not only common, but that Feather On The Breath of God by Sigrid Nunez
they have a creative impact on mothering. $25 cl, is a haunting first novel about the difficulties of forg-
0-465-08661-6, February. ing an identity in a world of different cultures. A
In Defense of Affirmative Action by Barbara young woman looks back to the world of her immi-
Bergmann is a systematic defense of affirmative action grant parents: a Chinese Panamanian father and a
as a just and efficient solution to persistent race and German mother who meet in post-war Germany and
sex discrimination. Bergmann counters the recent settle in New York. $10 pb, 0-06-092684-8.
complaint that affirmative action actually hurts its
intended beneficiaries. She considers the issue of
unfairness to white males and argues that the ethical il:
implications of leaving discrimination intact are far
worse. $23 cl, 0-465-09833-9, March. Kim Chernin’s new book, A Different Kind Of
Sociologist and psychotherapist Lillian Rubin Listening, explores the psychoanalytic process and the
offers inspiring tales of people who have managed process of a woman finding herself. Chernin taps into
to triumph over harsh and painful pasts in her new her experiences as both therapist and patient to present
book Fall Down Seven Times, Get Up Eight. These a compelling recounting of the rewards and shortcom-
are real-life accounts of people whose pasts have left ings of psychoanalysis. $12 pb, 0-06-092689-9.
scars but whose strength and determination — the Art Talk: Conversations With 15 Women Artists
qualites that enabled them to get through the tor- by Cindy Nemser is the revised edition of a 1975 book
ments of their childhoods — have helped them find and features three new artists. Included are interviews
paths to satisfying adulthood. $22 cl, 0-465-08669-1, with Barbara Hepworth, Sonia Delaunay, Louise
March. Nevelson and Audrey Flack. Seventy black-and-white
Call To Home by Carol Stack is the story of the photos. $25 pb, 0-06-430983-5.
migration of many urban African Americans to the The Best Kind Of Loving by Dr. Gwendolyn
southern states over the past 20 years. Stack inter- Goldsby Grant is a guide for Black women searching
weaves a powerful human story with a larger for healthier, more supportive, and loving relation-
economic and social analysis of migration, poverty ships. Grant is a psychologist and advice columnist for
and the urban underclass. Without romanticizing a Essence magazine. She shows African American cou-
harsh life or the individuals living it, this book offers ples how to cope with such loaded issues as money,
a rare glimpse of African American families pulling work, stereotyping and sexual intimacy and encour-
together and trying to make it in today’s America. ages couples to celebrate their lives. $13 pb,
$21 cl, 0-465-00809-7, April. —Sandi Torkildson 0-06-092475-6, February. z
A Room of One's Own The stories in The Complete Stories of Zora
Neale Hurston span her entire career and appear
together for the first time in this landmark edition. $13
Zil: pb, 0-06-092171-4, February.
Emma Donoghue unveils an astonishing range of
Barren in the Promised Land by Elaine Tyler overlooked lesbian identities in the late 17th- and
May. “Why have Americans become so preoccupied 18th-century Britain in Passions Between Women.
with their own reproductive fates — and everyone She presents a revisionist and frankly sexual look at
else's? This first history of childlessness covers ev- this period and provides evidence that many relation-
erything from the association of barrenness with sin ships between women were more passionate and
and witchcraft in colonial times to the radical sexual than other historians would have us believe.
changes promised but not fulfilled by today’s tech- $13 pb, 0-06-092680-5, March.
nological advances. ‘Thought-provoking and Necessary Lies by Janice Daugharty is a coming-
em0ot-io4nal6ly 5 wr-en0chi0ng6.’ —0M9s. - M4aga.zi ne .”— $24 F cl,BC of-age novel, centered on Cliffie Flowers, a luckless,
17-year-old girl who becomes pregnant out of
January/February 1996 104
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:27:01 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
wedlock. She fears her father’s reaction but hopes that Hungarian peasant farmer, refugee, gardner and
her pregnancy means an escape from the suffocating storehouse of stories. It is the story of a child who
community where she is trapped. When she is ac- listened to her old-country elders and who grew up to
cused of murder, she faces her accusers with a courage remember, to bear witness, and to remind others “that
and optimism that make her a most memorable hero- the magisterial life force within all things that
ine. $10 pb, 0-06-092688-0, March. strengthens us in times of turmoil or transition... can
never die.” $14 cl, 0-06-251380-X. —JT
Zil HEINEMAN
My Name’s Not Susie: A Life Transformed by
The Good Negress by A. J. Verdelle is an extraor- Literacy is Sharon Jean Hamilton's story of neglect,
dinary debut novel about Denise Palms, a 12-year-old foster homes, a series of names, physical, sexual, emo-
girl raised in rural Virginia by her grandmother. tional abuse, and labels such as “disobedient,”
Denise is called home to Detroit to care for her expec- “uneducable” and “social misfit.” Hamilton tells of
tant mother, two older brothers and stepfather. She how literacy changed her life and gave her alterna-
cooks and cleans but also studies with her new tives to her own experiences and how she discovered
teacher, Miss Gloria Pearson, who encourages Denise
to “reach beyond her`station.” Denise struggles with
her divided loyalties and begins to determine her own
course for the future. $10 pb, 0-06-097683-7, April.
Louise Erdrich’s first collection of essays, The
Blue Jay's Dance: A Birth Year, offers an intimate and
lyrical meditation on the delicate balance of mother-
ing a baby and maintaining an artistic life. $12 pb,
0-06-092701-1, April.
The Snarling Citizen by Barbara Ehrenreich is a
provocative collection of essays that take a frank and
at times funny look at the nineties. She describes a
culture in which the greatest hope for a national health
program is that it will provide coverage for Dr.
Kevorkian’s services. She is a sane voice in a decade Feminist Fairytales
of foibles. $12 pb, 0-06-097688-8, April.
A powerful collection of stories by Anglo, Latina, from
Asian and Black feminists from all socioeconomic and Barbara G. Walker,
religious heritages, Feminism 3 covers the major is-
sues in young women’s lives today. Writing about author of
everything from sexuality and biological awakenings The Woman’s
to gender identification and romance, the writers in
this collection offer a portrayal of feminism as it has Encyclopedia of
e Fvo elv bed r o uver a r th ye .p a st — de Sca ade n. $ d18 i c l, T 0 o-8 r13 k3-2 i5 l5 d1-X s, on Myths and Secrets.
A Room of One's Own
Hardcover * $22.00
HARPERSANFRANCISCO
The tales in Clarissa Pinkola Estés’s The Faithful
Gardener: A Wise Tale About That Which Can Never
Die are interlocked tales of loss, survival and rebirth,
centering around the author’s uncle, a war-ravaged
105 January/February 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:27:01 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
insights into her own world by writing about her
YYYY Lesbian Chic Yyyy experiences. $19.95 cl, 0-86709-361-7. -JT
Beyond Dolls and Guns: 101 Ways to Help
Mainstream Presses Discover Children Avoid Gender Bias by Susan Hoy Crawford
Lesbians Just in Time “is well-researched, practical, and in the words of
for Valentine’s Day Gift Giving Anne L. Bryant, the executive director of the American
Association of University Women, ‘Fun, balanced,
Y My Lover is a Woman: Contemporary easy-to-read, and ready-to-use.’ Keep a supply in your
Lesbian Love Poems edited by Lesléa Newman glove compartment — unfortunately, you'll run across
is an anthology of romantic, sensual, poignant m0any- p4eop3le 5wh-o 0can8 be1nef2it 9 fro-m2 a . c op y!”- $F9.95B pbC,
and humorous poems describing lesbian experi-
ence and paying tribute to the diverse and HOLT
complex nature of women’s sexuality. Contribu-
tors include Adrienne Rich, June Jordan, Joy Now in paper is Christina Stead: A Biography by
Harjo, Paula Gunn Allen and Olga Brouma. Hazel Rowley. $18.95 pb, 0-8050-4262-8.
$18.50 cl, 0-345-39483-6, Ballantine Books. —JT HYPERION
Y The Arc of Love: An Anthology of
Lesbian Love Poems edited and with an intro- Ain't Gonna Be the Same Fool Twice, April
duction by Clare Coss includes poets from Sinclair ’s sequel to the wildly popular Coffee Will Make
Sappho to Audre Lorde, Asian American, Afri- You Black follows Jean Stevenson's, Stevie’s, life right
can American and Native American poets. A after her graduation from college. Set in the 1975 San
collection by and about lesbians which ranges Francisco of free love, war protests, and women’s
f8rom1 4th4e 6ro-ma3nt,ic toS tcher eixbplicnit.e $r18. pb , — 0-68D4-H c uo an lis tc yi ,o u csn ones ts e- mra pi ls ai tn eg s g wr ho au tp s r, e lS at te iov nie s h e ipx sp l o mre es a n h e tr o s he ex r- ,
Y A Delicate Fire: Quotations on Lesbian anHd setytles pinto e herr owino. $1n9.95 . c l, 0-7s868 -60 69J-3, T
Love edited by Liz Tracey is a gift sized collec-
tion. ($10 cl, 0-312-14059-2.) In Your Eyes:
Quotations on Gay Male Love edited by Richard Zil
Derus is the male equivalent. ($10 cl, 0-312- B
14057-6.) Stonewall Inn Studio Book/St.
Martin's, February. —DH LITTLE, BROWN
Y The Lesbian Pillow Book, no apparent Deep Water Passage: A Midlife Journey by Ann
editor or author and printed in Hong Kong, “is a Linnea. “This inspiring personal account details the
celebration of lesbian love and passion as de- 65-day, 1200-mile journey by the first woman to
picted in literature and art from ancient circumnavigate Lake Superior by sea kayak. Braving
civilizations to modern times and spanning East storms, unseasonable cold, and physical exhaustion,
and West. The extracts of poetry and prose are Linnea embarks upon an equally treacherous spiritual
complemented by full-color illustrations, includ- quest, resulting in an extraordinary decision to leave
ing painting, sculpture and frescoes.” $8 cl, behind the safe comfort of her middle-class existence
0-06-251169-6, HarperSanFrancisco. sT and begin a new and richer life.” $22.95 cl, 0-316-
Y The Zenith of Desire is another giftbook 52683-5.
of lesbian love poems, with an emphasis on We Flew Over the Bridge: The Memoirs of Faith
contemporary writers including Gertrude Ringgold by Faith Ringgold. “One of the country’s
Stein, Audre Lorde, Chrystos and Joan Larkin. pre-eminent African American artists and illustrators
Zenith is the only one that has two women — the creator of provocative ‘story quilts,’ politically
kissing on the cover. Yeah Crown! $12, 0-517- charged paintings, and the Caldecott Honor-winning
702819, Crown. JE children’s book Tar Beach — Faith Ringgold shares the
fascinating story of her life. Richly illustrated with 40
January/February 1996 106 Volume 18 Number 5
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:27:01 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
inl. sial.. al „ilI :l
Ú
full-color reproductions and over 100 black-and- research shows that women follow a predictable
white photographs, here is an inspiring portrait of a developmental course but that the situation is more
tBruluy l gfifitned c whom a nP.” r $2e9s.9s5 . c l, —0-82F12B-2C071-3, complicated by gender biases. $27.50 cl, 0-394-53235-X.
Bette Bao Lord, the author of bestselling Spring
MCGRAW-HILL Moon, has a new novel, Middle Heart, set in China
during the Japanese conquest of Manchuria, 1932.
Informed Consent: Inside the Dow Corning Three young people form a passionate alliance to die
Breast Implant Tragedy by John Bryne. “Like many together in defense of their country. Over the years
others, Colleen Swanson suffered catastrophic illness their lives separate and reunite again and again as
and was permanently disfigured as a result of breast they are challenged and tested by conflicting loyalties
implant surgery. But unlike others, her husband was to political ideals, country, family, loved ones, friends
one of the architects of Dow Corning’s public relations and one’s self. $25 cl, 0-394-53432-8, February.
campaign which insisted that the implants were abso- —Sandi Torkildson
lutely safe. Informed Consent chronicles their A Room of One's Own
dramatic and painful stories and raises important
questions about corporate greed and responsibility.”
$22 cl, 0-07-009625-2.
|
The Woman’s Guide to On-line Services by
Judith Broadhurst. “Now, with this empowering RI -Schocken
guide, women can seize the latest on-line opportunities Love’s Work: A Reckoning With Life by distin-
— personal, professional, social and political. Packed guished English scholar Gillian Rose is her attempt to
with information about the Internet, on-line services, illuminate the deepest issues of all human life: love,
and networks designed specifically for women, this family, friendship, sexuality, illness and death. A dev-
unique book gives women a high-tech connection to astating confrontation with mortality gives Rose’s
resources for business and career, money manage- search an immediacy and an intimacy as she tries to
ment, political involvement, communication, kids, teach the mind what the heart knows and the heart
recreational interests and other valuable cyberspace what the mind understands. $20 cl, 0-8052-4135-3.
tools.” $19.95 pb, 0-07-024168-6. —FBC —Sandi Torkildson
A Room of One's Own
PUTNAM PUBLISHING GROUP RH-Times
Where I Stopped: Remembering Rape at “Adolescence is a difficult period for anyone, but
Thirteen by Martha Ramsey is a memoir addressing for gay male and lesbian teen-agers it can be almost
adolescent rape. $23.95 cl, 0-399-14107-3. unbearable.” In Passages of Pride: Lesbian and Gay
—Dorothy Holland Youth Come of Age by journalist Kurt Chandler fol-
RANDOM HOUSE wlo hw os st ph ee a k s t oo fr i e ts h eo f c hs aix ll e nM gi en sn e oa fp o l ri es a- lS it z. i n gP a u al t t ae nen a eg ae rr lys
RH-Knopf age that they are different, of learning how to hide, of
The Seasons of A Woman’s Life by Daniel facing depression and suicidal tendencies, and of
Levinson and Judy Levinson is “a groundbreaking coming out and making peace at home, school and on
study of the adult developmental stages in women’s their own. There are also briefer profiles of dozens of
lives.” Based on lengthy interviews with a randomly other teens from across the country and insights from
selected group of women from many walks of life, this “experts.”$23 cl, 0-8129-2380-4. —JT
Volume 18 Number 5 107 January/February 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:27:01 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
RH-Vintage Jeanette Winterson’s latest novel, Art & Lies,
Anita Brookner’s Private View explores the com- takes place on a train hurtling through a nightmarish
plications that arise when a solitary man comes up future England. The stories of three passengers inter-
against a woman who seems determined to invade his weave this novel: a disillusioned surgeon named
solitude. George Bland is an aging bachelor who lives up Handel, a man whose humanity has been sacrificed to
to his name. Kate Gibb, a young, self-assured woman, intellect; a woman artist named Picasso, cast out bya
incites alarming feelings and reactions in George, includ- family that drove her to madness; and the lesbian poet
ing a hitharto unknown capacity for compromise and Sappho, who has propagated her subversive gospel
self-deception. $12 pb, 0-679-75443-1, February. through centuries of censorship and exile. $11 pb,
Rapper, activist, and hip-hop rebel, Sister 00679076270-1, February. — Sandi Torkildson
Souljah’s candid autobiography, No Disrespect, is a A Room of One's Own
survival manual for any young African American
woman determined to keep her heart open and her
i dn ist ie ng tr ei gty ra t i in onta c ot f. S fh ae m ia ld ied sr , e s cs oe ms b s au tc h b e c tu wr er ee nn t t hi ess u se es x e a ss Zili a
and racism in America. $12pb, 0-679-76708-8, February. ST. MARTIN’S PRESS
With Child: A Kate Martinelli Mystery by
Laurie King continues a wonderful series with a
“Mackey joins the company lesbian homicide detective. Even though it’s cloth,
give it a try. $21.95 cl, 0-312-14077-0, February.
of Jean Auel and A Delicate Fire: Quotations on Lesbian Love
Elizabeth Marshall Thomas.” edited by Liz Tracey is a gift sized collection. $10 cl,
0-312-14059-2, Stonewall Inn Studio Book, February.
— Marge Piercy In Your Eyes, Quotations on Gay Male.Love edited
by Richard Derus is the male equivalent. $10 cl, 0-312-
14057-6, Stonewall Inn Studio Book, February.
Essential Heart Book for Women by Morris
Notelovitz and Diana Tonnessen presents what we
can do to take action against this disease that kills 36%
of American women. $22.95 cl, 0-312-13968-3, March.
Among Women by Tom Bianchi is an art book
with photographs capturing the relationships of
women, along the lines of his previous title Bob & Rod.
$40 cl, 0-312-13425-8, March.
The Letters of Dorothy L. Sayers, 1899-1936: The
Making of a Detective Novelis, chosen and edited by
Barbara Reynolds preface by P.D. James, is a collection
of the thoughts and ideas that shaped Sayers’ early
years. $26.95 c], 0-312-14001-0, April.
New from the bestselling author of Tongue Fu! Deflect, Disarm and Diffuse Any
The Year the Horses Came Verbal Conflict by Sam Horn is a handbook for verbal
self defense offering constructive alternatives for all of
The Horses At The Gate us. Sam Horn is a woman. $22.95 cl, 0-312-14054-1,
February.
Unveiled: One Woman’s Nightmare in Iran by
Cherry Mosteshar is a firsthand look by a Western
woman at life in revolutionary Iran under the mullahs.
$23.95 cl, 0-312-14061-4, March. —Dorothy Holland
January/February 1996 108
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:27:01 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Iil.:
lls
SIMON & SCHUSTER favorites. $10 pb, 0-684-82388-8, Simon & Schuster
The Arc of Love: An Anthology of Lesbian Love Libros En Espanol, April.
Poems edited and with an introduction by Clare Coss Yellow Woman and a Beauty of the Spirit:
includes poets from Sappho to Audre Lorde, Asian Essays on Native American Life Today by Leslie
American, African American and Native American Marmon Silko should be on all our lists. Silko explores
poets also. $18 pb, 0-684-81446-3. Native American culture and position in society. $23
The Same River Twice: Honoring the Difficult c], 0-684-81153-7, Simon & Schuster, March.
by Alice Walker is a memoir looking at how fame, Stop It! Weapons for the War Against Domestic
illness, betrayal and the Pulitzer prize have impacted Violence by Raoul Felder and Barbara Victor, is a title
her life, work and art. I just finished reading the galley, you'll want to consider, but perhaps not stock. “The
and I'm still mulling over many of the ideas. $17 cl, authors accuse advocates for battered women of sac-
0-684-81446-3, Scribner. rificing victims to political correctness. By choosing
Still Life with Rice: A Young American Woman privacy over protection and prevention, by insisting
Discovers the Life and Legacy of Her Korean Grand- that the choice to report the crime must be the victim’s
mother by Helie Lee is another memoir, this one lest we further weaken her position in society, these
looking at Lee’s grandmother’s life. $24 cl, 0-684- advocates enable the violence to continue.” $22 dcl,
80270-8, Scribner, March. : 0-684-81362-9, Simon & Schuster, April.
—Dorothy Holland
Lost Bird of Wounded Knee: Spirit of the Lakota
Zil by Renee Sansom Flood combines research and story-
telling to retell the story of Zintkala Nuni (Lost Bird)
The End of Alice by A.M. Homes is a novel from Who, as a baby, survived the 1890 massacre at
the point of view of a violent sex offender. $22 cl, Wounded Knee, was adopted by General Leonard W.
0-684-81528-1, Scribner, March. Colby, sexually abused by him as an adolescent, and
The New Leaders: Leadership Diversity in raised by miscelleaneous folks (her adopted mother
America by Ann Morrison has ideas and practices for Clara Colby attempted to raise her). After a futile
creating strategies that move women and people of search for her roots, Lost Bird tragically died of heart
color into the executive ranks. Morrison’s Breaking the failure at the age of 29. In 1991 her remains were
Glass Ceiling had a major impact on women in busi- located and reburied at the Wounded Knee Memorial.
ness. The New Leaders promises to do the same. $25 cl, 0-634-19512-7, Scribner.
$18.50 pb, 0-7879-0184-9, Jossey-Bass. As the spokesperson for the Palestinians in the
Surface Tension: Lesbian and Straight Women Occupied Territories, Hanan Mikhail-Ashrawi has
Write About Their Relationships edited by Meg become a recognized and articulate voice in the Pales-
Daly, includes essays by Dorothy Allison, Gloria tinian struggle. In This Side of Peace: A Personal
Steinem, Robin Morgan, Susie Bright and other Account, Mikhail-Ashrawi tells of her struggles as a
lesbian, bisexual and straight women exploring the Christian Arab woman in a Muslim, male-dominated
relationships among women. $12 pb, 0-684-80221-X, world, torn between motherhood and the demands of
Touchstone. her cause, and “as a pivotal peacemaker in the monu-
Un Lugar Donde Recuerda el Mar (A Place mental negotiations of our lifetime.” Offering an
Where the Sea Remembers) by Sandra Benitez is insider’s view of Mideast diplomacy Mikhail-
worth a try even if you carry only a few books in Ashrawi shows how she learned to draw strength
Spanish. In English, this is one of Full Circle’s all-time from her family and friendships with Palestinian and
Volume 18 Number 5 109
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:27:01 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Israeli women, which helped her lay the foundation for groups — Native Americans, lesbians, gang members,
peace. $25 cl, 0-684-80294-5, Simon & Schuster. —JT girl rappers, farm girls, jocks, surfers — forming a por-
trait of what it’s like being adolescent and female in
Now in paper: today’s world. $11.99 pb, 0-446-67021-9. —JT
You Mean I'm Not Lazy, Stupid or Crazy? A Self
Help Book for Adults with Attention Deficit WESTVIEW PRESS
Disorder by Kate Kelly and Peggy Ramundo. $14 pb, Justice and Care: Essential Readings in Feminist
0-684-81531-1, Fireside. Ethics edited by Virginia Held explores the relationship
Timetables of Women’s History: A Chronology between the ideals of justice and care — a discussion at
of the Most Important People and Events in the core of contemporary feminist ethics. Contributors
Women’s History by Karen Greenspan. $21 pb, 0-684- include Nel Noddings, Alison Jaggar, Claudia Card,
81579-6, Touchstone, March. Carol Gilligan and Sara Ruddick. $17.95 pb, 0-8133-
The New Our Bodies, Ourselves: A Book By and 2162-X; $49.95 cl, -2161-1, Westview Press. —JT
For Women is being reissued in a 25th anniversary
edition. $20 pb, 0-684-82352-7, Touchstone, March. Bookstore News, continued from page 15.
—Dorothy Holland broke into the store (breaking the glass in the front
TOR/FORGE ; cd ao so hr , a nd des p $i 5te 0 0 t h ine b Ca Dr ss . and dead-bolt) to take $900 in
Thin Moon and Cold Mist by Kathleen O'Neal
Gear. “By the co-author of People of the Lakes, Thin For Sale
Moon and Cold Mist tells an historically accurate tale Womansline (London, Ontario) is for sale. Own-
of the American West — and Robin Walkingstick ers Barb Szlavko and Deb Kunder sent a letter out to
Heatherton, fiercly independent former Confederate their community similar to the one that found The
spy, who helps to shape it.” This book helps refute the Reader’s Feast’s new owners. Interviews with ten dif-
view of nineteenth-century women as oppressed and ferent parties were set up as we talked to Barb. “We've
unable to control their own destinies by telling of had a good spring and a good summer, but what we
women gold miners, explorers, homesteaders, farm- keep coming back to is that we've been doing the store
ers, ranchers, spies and business people succeeding in for ten years and we've done almost everything we
the West. $22.95 cl, 0-312-85701-2, Forge. —JT wanted to...” she said. “I've lived in this city all my life
and even went to school here. It’s time to move on.”
Zil: Y
C A
WARNER BOOKS
Knowing by Rosalyn McMillan sounds like itll Cybercafe/Bookstore
be worth a try — sexy, poignant and ultimately trium- Rebecca Walker and Angel Williams have opened
phant. The story of one woman’s quest for fulfillment, Kokobar, Brooklyn’s first African American and
it is fiction aimed at the same audience as Brothers & woman-owned cybercafe /bookstore. People of color
Sisters and Waiting to Exhale. $19.95 cl, 0-446-51866-2. are “in danger of missing out on the information su-
What Every Woman Must Know About Heart perhighway,” Walker told Ms. Magazine. With four
Disease: The No Nonsense Approach to Diagnosing, computers set up and plans for more, they hope to
Treating and Preventing #1 Killer of Women by Sieg- attract people who don’t have access to the Internet.
fried Kar, a cardiologist offers information on More next issue!
prevention, diagnosis and treatment of heart disease.
$22.95 cl, 0-446-51986-1, March. —Dorothy Holland So how do feminist bookstores get their news into this
In Girl Power: Young Women Speak Out editor column? Call with the news, mention it when you call about
Hilary Carlip presents poems, letters and stories by girls something else, write it up yourself and mail/e-mail/fax it in,
aged 13-19 from different places, backgrounds and or send us your newsletter and other store publications! O
January/February 1996 110
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:27:01 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
A & M BOOKS. a 75 Naiad DIS88. . o 76
AVOEUS. =... e i eeraa 86
City Lights... 2... Aa 42 NOew U YorEk W UnivTersIitey Pr esns ....6..... ... ....6 26
CONSOT HUM.. e K a 16 Oút-erWear 4... ... s: 56
Goldenrod /Horizon Distribution .......... 32 Oxford University Press ................. 98
HarmOny/CIOWN s... eee 4 Papier Mache PISS... ........ 2
HarperSanFranciso ......... A... 105, 108 Penguin.. -o i C3
Health Communications ................. 100 Polestar PIes8 ...... a 38
Heinemann... >: i 30
Publishers Group West/Grove ............ 78
Knowledge, Ideas & Trends ............... 72 SPINIfeX 1. ri ir 34
KOEN atale e eat C1 StoneBridge Press: ........ 82
KOED . r eir n ni k 52 Syracuse Cultural Workers ............... 64
#Ladyslipper. N u d. 18, 84 University of Chicago Press .............. 24
Mother Courage ......... 0 cua 74 University of Illinois Press... .......... 40
Mysteries, from page 58. kind where you can switch identities). ($22.95 cl,
take to the mean streets of New York City, from Times 0-446-51772-0, Warner, March).
Square porn palaces to Fashion Avenue ($5.95 pb, If you can sell hardcovers, you will probably want
0-14-023565-5, Penguin, January). Conrad and Hill to stock Political Death by Antonia Fraser, the new
were last seen in The Mother Shadow ($4.50 pb, mystery featuring another TV journalist, Jemima Shore.
0-14-011778-4, Penguin). Combining history, theater, and murder, this concerns an
I'm not much of a fan of comic mysteries, I find, eccentric older woman's private diary, full of explosive
at least not the contemporary American kind with sexual secrets. $21.95 cl, 0-552-09964-7, Bantam, March.
writing that could be described as “snappy.” For those Librarians, academics, and other bibliographic
who are, you may want to stock Nice Girls Finish types, take note. Doubleday has published a collection
Last, the new hardcover by Sparkle Hayter, featuring of African American crime fiction, Spooks, Spies, and
a bad-girl TV news reporter reminiscent of a Private Eyes edited by Paula L. Woods. This is the
downscale Murphy Brown ($20.95 cl, 0-670-86039-5, only collection of its kind, and it looks excellent, with
Viking, March). Introduced in What’s a Girl Gotta a surprising number of women contributors, includ-
Do?, Robin Hudson works for a CNN-type cable news ing Barbara Neely, Valerie Wilson Wesley and Eleanor
channel, is in a semi-permanent career slump (she missed
her chance at the big time because she burped on air at a Mystery fans and list enthusiasts will be enter-
White House press conference), and is recovering from a tained by Detecting Women: A Reader’s Guide and
nasty divorce. There are lots of jokes about TV news, but Checklist for Mystery Series Written by Women by
we see Robin actually working at her job even less than Willetta Heising. The title tells it, but the data has
Murphy ($5.95 pb, 0-14-024481-6, Penguin). Another new been re-arranged in interesting and useful ways, so
hardcover that looks suspiciously “snappy” is Devils that you can look for a series under the character’s
Food by Janice Weber, a tale of jet-setting twin sisters, name (Kinsey who?) or find all of those set in your
one a master chef and the other an actress, who must state. We gave it to a group of women gathered for
outwit a killer hunting one of them. Catalog copy a women’s mystery weekend at a local guesthouse
claims this combines the “wisecracking...style of Susan and they had a great time browsing. $19.95 cl,
Isaacs and the sophisticated insight of Gloria Steinem” 0-9644593-0-2. Purple Moon Press, 3319 Greenfield
and it extols the power of sisterhood (especially. the Road #317, Dearborn MI 48120. O
111
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:27:01 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
s
SIDELINES year-round position if we launch a Spring Catalog in
1997. Must live in Bay Area, be familiar with feminist
Positive Notecards For Women. Joyously illustrated bookstores and feminist and mainstream publishing,
with florals, herbs, cats, moons, stars, celestials.... Neat have a knack for organization, care passionately about
Stuff! Woman owned and operated. Experience the feminist bookstores, and be willing to work as many
notecards women across the country can’t stop talking hours a day as it takes to get it done! Send résumé with
about! For color catalog and sample notecard contact: Fd res ac nr ci ip sct oio n C Ao f 9 4a 1v 8a 8il .ability to FBN, PO Box 882554, San
Emmanuel Publishing, PO Box 212534-T, Columbia
SC 29221; 803-798-8903.
SERVICES
MUSIC DISTRIBUTION
Publicist/Marketing Consultant specializing in fem-
Ladyslipper Music — the oldest national distribu- inist and/or lesbian book promotions. Experienced
tor specializing in recordings by women — invites and knowledgeable in many aspects of book retail-
you to join us in celebrating our 20th anniversary in i in bg l, e p u sb el ris vh iin cg e s .a n d R ed ais st or nib au bti lo en . rC ar tea et siv . e C a ond m mfle ix t- ted to a
1996! All genres, including feminist, lesbian /gay,
women’s spirituality, international, alternative, woman's movement as well as business concerns.
folk, classical, spoken, and children’s music, plus Mev Miller, 1483 Laurel Avenue, St. Paul MN 55104;
songbooks, videos and more. For free annotated 612-646-0097/ fax 612-646-1153.
Wwholesale/retail catalog of over 1500 CD and
cassette titles: phone 800-634-6044, fax 919-383- Inventory Specialist for Feminist Bookstores. Hire
3525, PO Box 3124, Durham NC 27715; 3-mail me to review your catalogs and make recommenda-
ladyslip@nando.net. tions to you based on your store's inventory and
sales. Services available on an hourly basis or
HELP WANTED monthly contract. Inventory recommendations can
be made to fit your style. Dorothy Holland: 505-
Feminist Bookstore Manager: This twenty-one year 867-9077; 53 Perdiz Canyon Road, Box 943, Placitas
old feminist bookstore needs a new manager, to begin NM 87043.
Feb./March. Full-time, or part-time jobshare. Retail
management or bookstore experience preferred. Send CLASSIFIED ADS
résumé to Fan the Flames Feminist Bookstore, 3387
North High Street, Columbus OH 43202. FBN Classified Ads — New Rates! — $10 for first
50 words, 15 cents per word after that. 25% dis-
FBN will be hiring a project manager to coordinate all count for 3+ insertions paid at one time. Payment
aspects of the Feminist Bookstore Network 1996 Fall must accompany ad. No charge for “Help Wanted”
Catalog. Part-time in the Spring, full-time in the listings up to 100 words. Send to FBN, PO Box
Summer, and part-time in the Fall. Could evolve into 882554, San Francisco, CA 94188.
January/February 1996 112
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:27:01 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsMore feminist
energy per page...
With 100 pages of editorial in every issue—and no advertising—
Ee that's a lot of energy! Ms. has grown fresher, o
t feistier, more life-relevant and reader-friendly than ever.
Display it prominently, and watch sales take off!
Sell the
best selling
feminist
magazine
in the world!
NAS.
If your distribution
has heen interrupted,
call Mary McEvoy
\ at 212-551-9571.
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:27:01 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsREADING FROM
THE HFART
seum òf Fine Arts,
ollection
Women, Literature, and the
Search for True Love
_ Suzanne Juhasz
Why do women fall in love with reading? In this engrossing, provocative book, Suzanne Juhasz
traces her own life through the books she loved, showing how fiction becomes a place where
women can experiment with new ways of feeling and being. “Reading from the Heart has forever
changed the way I :u n deSrs,t an dF meyvseelfr a:n d Smey n owsnu astlo ry .S” t—oMrichieeles Sl unbgy, E d itWor oofm `en Writers
CHIOE PLUS OLIVIA
An Anthology of Lesbian Literature from
the Seventeenth Century to the Present
EDITED BY Lillian Faderman
WINNER OF THE LAMBDA LITERARY AWARD
The bestselling author of Odd Girls and Twilight Lovers covers four centuries
of lesbian and bisexual writing in this startling volume, the most complete compilation
of its kind, and one that radically redefines the whole notion of “lesbian literature.”
Now available in paperback from Penguin
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:27:01 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms