Feminist
Bookstore
News IsIvilzlh
March/April 1993 Volume 15 Number 6
Femina Serial am F32978 3/47
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsb a
The Spring 1993 Warming Trend
Has Already Started...
TWO DOWN (February)
THE BLACK BACK-UPS, Poetry STONE BUTCH BLUES, A Novel
by Kate Rushin by Leslie Feinberg
Ku Rushin’s long-anticipated first collection of poetry. P owerful, provocative, and deeply moving story about
The faces, voices, feelings, words, and stories of her African- Jess Goldberg—a transgendered he-she coming out in the
American family. pre-Stonewall bars and factories, moving toward wholeness.
$$ 1 88..9955 cploapther I SISBBNN 1 1--5566334411--002265--57 $ $2120.9.955 c ploatphe r I SIBSBNN 1 -15-65364314-10-3002-93-X
5⁄2 x 8⁄2 96 pages 5⁄2 x 8⁄2 304 pages
TWO TO GO (April)
restoring the RESTORING WORDS TO
coler cf POSS | THE COLOR ords THE WISE
OF ROSES i" A Writer’s Guide to Feminist and
by Barrie Jean Borich lesbian pe riS odic al s E &e E pubtE lishES ers a by An dL res eb ai an F lP ee cri kod ic Cal ls a r & d yPublishers
Nai s s R estoring The Color Of Roses is For every woman who wants to
ÈM ySò." a collection a Bb aro ru iet g eae nt t Bi on rg ’sb e ft irt se tr . bk en eo nw w rh ite tr ee t o ose rn dd Tit a Tf hte er it i’ ss
J ic h book of w n , W s o W e
creative nonfiction leads us down remains the most effective tool for
sa aSda a winding trail of memories—some ROSES ESES: connecting the feminist and lesbian
real, some imagined, some writer to her potential audience.
_ dreamt—all true. Sex, alcoholism, Here in the revised and ex-
cultural identity, and the landscapes of a rebuilt life are bold- panded FOURTH edition of this popular handbook (over
ly explored in these acute narratives. : 15,000 in print), is an annotated listing of more than 150
The stench of Chicago’s industrial corridor. A Polish U.S. and Canadian book and periodical publishers,
mother. A Croatian nose. Guitar riffs trapped under a references for children’s book and scholarly publishers, and
teenager's skin. The roaring of commuter trains. Blonde details about submissions and royalties—all from places that
beauty queens and beaded yellow bras. Nipples the color actively solicit women’s words.
Of roses. Since 1986, Words To The Wise has been providing
Shaped by the rich detail of storytelling and the lyricism essential information to women who write, librarians,
of poetry, Restoring The Color Of Roses paints a vivid por- bookstore workers, and avid readers.
trait of a lesbian from the south side of Chicago who fell Firebrand Sparks Pamphlet #1. Look for the BRIGHT
out of her life and came back restored. YELLOW cover.
$$ 52 0⁄9.9.955 2 cpl oa xpthe r I 8SISB⁄BNN 2 1 1-5- 561633464101-0- 02 287-p1-3 ages 5$ ⁄ 2 x5 . 89 1/5 : paper ISBN 1-56341-032 - 5X 6 pages
Firebrand 141 The Commons, Ithaca, New York 14850, 607-272-0000
Distributed to the trade exclusively by InBook,
Books t Ah ve a i ls aa bl le es td hiv rois ui gon h o alf l t leh ae d i nIn gl a n wd h o B leo so ak le r C s.ompany.
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
o
o
©
0.0.0.0. 0 o
For all that FBN looks like a magazine, each issue find her contributions to this issue in Writing Wanted,
is actually a compilation of phone calls, notes, letters Back to Press, That-A-Way, Small Presses, and News.
and longer pieces. Some are formal, some are spur of FBN has a new Mysteries columnist at last! Welcome
the moment. FBN wouldn't exist without these com- Now Voyager's Nan Cinnater to FBN’s pages. Our
' munications and the commitments that stand behind heartfelt thanks, too, to Ann Morse who stayed on
them. As this issue goes to press, Id like to thank half-time to help us through one last production cycle.
everyone who contributed to the wealth of informa- More changes: Having put in two years summa-
tion in these pages — and I'd particularly like to thank rizing, analyzing and annotating University Press
everyone who helped with the Canada Customs stories. publications for FBN, Ann Christophersen is ready to
In the last four months, feminist bookstores have pass on the job. We're looking for a bookseller familiar
(as The Globe and Mail put it) “joined gay bookstores as with the range of university press publishing and a
targets of Customs’ seizures.” Materials have been love of the books they publish. If that’s you and you'd
held, seized or blocked from three of the 12 feminist like to write this column, give me a call.
bookstores in Canada and from at least two “general” YoCurs ain rspreoadinlg th e Sworeds,ajay O
stores as well. This stepped-up activity is clearly a
response to the Butler decision — a supposedly
woman-friendly ruling that has been turned against
lesbian, feminist and gay publications from Hothead
Paisan to Weenie-Toons to two Andrea Dworkin titles.
All of the news isn't maddening: The Sixth Inter-
national Feminist Book Fair will be held July 27-31,
1994... There will be a Feminist Bookstores & Publish-
ers Contingent in the March on Washington... Three of
the five people accused of bombing The Closet Book-
store have pled or been found guilty. The remaining
two go on trial in the spring...
But the news isn't all good, either: ABA refuses to
boycott Colorado. The Board chose to donate money
“instead.” Not good enough... Yes, Dorothy Allison
was “banned” in Oklahoma... No, it’s not true that
ABA is kicking out all chain stores and turning into an
advocacy group for independent bookstores. Too bad!
Turn to the News section for all the details.
Please welcome Karen Carnival, our new Office
Manager and Editorial Assistant, to FBN’s staff. Karen
is fresh from Oregon's “No On 9" campaign. You'll
Volume 15 Number 6 March/April 1993
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsIr I Hap My Lire T0 Live OvER I WOULD PICK MORE DAISIES
Edited by Sandra Haldeman Martz
In this beautiful sequel to When I Am an Old Woman I Shall Wear Purple,
editor Sandra Haldeman Martz presents the voices of women as they reflect upon
decisive moments that have shaped their lives. With over 170,000 copies in
print, If I Had My Life to Live Over appeals to the same mainstream readers who
have embraced When I Am an Old Woman.“Powerful and poignant.” -Glenda
Martin, Minnesota Women’s Press; “The selections cut across a spectrum of age,
1f I btado m yl ilivfee over race, and ways of life...an honorable and thought-provoking companion volume.”
1 would pick more daisies -Kirkus Reviews. Available now.
0-918949-24-6 Paperback $10, -25-4 Hardcover $16
BLUE COLLAR GOODBYES
BLUE Sue Doro
COLLAR Sue Doro, for thirteen years the only female machinist at the former Milwau-
kee Road Railway, is one of countless victims of widespread American plant
GOODBYES closings. This powerful collection of poetry and essays speaks to every woman
ì who works. “The music of the working class...Sue Doro lives what she writes
about...” -Nat Hentoff, Village Voice; “Blue Collar Goodbyes is working class
poetry at its finest.” -Nellie Wong; “Doro makes this world live and breath and
sing.” -ALA Booklist. Available now.
0-918949-22-X Paperback $8, 23-8 Hardcover $12
THE ADVENTURES OF STOUT MAMA
Sibyl James
A collection of short essays about Stout Mama, an eclectic feminist in her
forties and a “bewildered techno-peasant.” Engaging and droll, Stout Mama is
more interested in honesty and good times than in consumerism in the modern
age. A traveler, a dreamer, a bird watcher, and a music lover, Stout Mama is a
bohemian spirit who has never owned a television. Publication Date: July 1993
0-918949-33-5 Paperback $9, -34-3 Hardcover $14
MAKING OURSELVES AT HOME: WOMEN BUILDERS AND DESIGNERS
Janice Goldfrank
Based on interviews with women across the United States, Janice Goldfrank,
a general contractor from upstate New York, presents an inspiring and useful
survey of women who have designed and/or built their own houses. A testament
to the lasting influence of the women’s movement and the power of individual
commitment. Publication Date: July 1993
0-918949-26-2 Paperback $18, -27-0 Hardcover $30
All books are available through Inland, Bookpeople, n
Baker & Taylor, and Ingram. Books and sidelines are
available directly from Papier-Mache Press (800) 927-5913.
March/April 1993 2 Volume 15 Number 6
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
FBN CONTENTS
Editor & Publisher
Carol Seajay ARTICLES
Editorial Canada Customs Seizes Hothead ......... 11
Ann Morse & Karen Carnival Teen Bookstore-Bombers Found Guilty... ... 11
Advertising/Production Women in Publishing Conference <." 1" 31
Cill Janeway NEWs From the BOOKSIOIES . . . . . . e s 23
: Bookstore:Profile: TEXIUres ii reut 29
Art B Cooloukmnsi st sT Reee-T h iCnkoinrgitnhen AeB A I — -suis ASS 33
Canadian Books NEC Penny Goldsmith Women and Sports Bibliography... . ....... 38
Gay Men's Literature Richard Labonte ABA Declines Colorado Boycott... . =.. 13
Mainstream Publishers Sandi Torkildson Lambda Literary Award Finalists... ....... 18
Mysteries Nan Cinnater News/Short.Stories. . .. ... . s. A. 11
Science Fiction Susanna Sturgis March on Washington . ABA vs. Independent Booksellers .
YU on uiv ne gr s Ait dy u ltP r e Bs os oe ks s A Cn hn r isC th inri es t o Jp eh ne kr is ne sn 6th Int'l Feminist Book SPf eaa lni lr sd o • Cr a o// nNn vde ewe np t e i onV nde en n Rttu i gr e hB to sAo k w •s ae rl Nldi ens w g • B TU oon od kiaoy pn e i oz• pin leg PH ra or gp re ar mSF • • D A orB oA thy
Allison: Banned in Oklahoma • Locked Down
Proofreading
Pat Kelso When Feminists are Wrong: Nett Hart.. ..... 39
GAI DEPARTMENTS
Paula Clayton AdVEriSing (Ndx... . 0. u 127
ie Announcements . . . . . . 3A R e 41
fSORISt DOSASISI SI NGWS Back to Press & Other Good News . ........ 44
456 14Pth OStre et SBuiteo 6x 882554 BSSIS6IlerS5 u i 51
San Francisco GA 94188 Classified AdS. ani 128
415-626-1556 FAX: 626-8970 Deadlines te 128
FEMINIST BOOKSTORE NEWS is the communications Lefers St a, v MAR NS UAR aAA L. 5
FvBNe hreiacchelse 35 0f foemrin i stt hande f emininifst-oinrclmineda lbo o kn-etwork of feminist bookstores. Subscription Information 2 A 124
stores in the U.S. and Canada as well as feminist book- They. Went That-A-Way... S... a. 47
sellers in England, Europe, Australia, New Zealand, Trivia 45
India:and.Japan. Librarians,women's studies teachers, | u C OSNA tN tUM SKa i REREN sae e Lee
book reviewers, publishers and feminist bibliophiles WIERING WANGA, e i a 49
comprise the remainder of the subscribers.
Letters, articles, news items and announcements should THE BOOKS
bSe ai rgecneiuveedd t ht e a trenththi c olfe otsh e maronntdh sp rlecee.dtint ge pru sbl ic aCtaiorn.e a thne raespdonsiibialitny o f thBe AOrt oBookks sN tN S EeR .o 69 59
pFuEbMlishINedI S bTi- m BonOtOhlKy S TinO RJaEn u aNryE, W MSar c hS,S NM a yv, a J uSly5,8 6i i Gay Men’s Dieratire: <7. =.. . e- > E 67
September, and November by FEMINIST BOOKSTORE Mysteriesse. i NMR. NM. 95
NEWS at 456 14th Street Suite 6, San Francisco, CA Our OWMIPresses v... a e.. 73
94103. Second-Class Postage paid at San Francisco, : ,
FC FEAMrIa.N nI SPTc O i BsSOcTOoKM ,ST AO SRCET A EN R| :09 x 4 P 81e882a5s 85e4-., 2 S5Ran5U 4.C . n a it So C IP eU nb CI eis h Fer is cR tiO oo nW w 0 . .= e> ad. l 109
SUBSCRIPTIONS: $60/yr!8 issues, $115/2 yearsıiPlus/ 1|. 1 I19 SMaIl Pres888 . a e e 9
$9/yr Canadian postage; $19/yr for overseas postage. University Presses.. 101
Volume 15 Number 6 3 March/April 1993
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
w
New from Spinsters Ink
Vital Ties
by Karen Kringle
ISBN 0-933216-90-4 $10.95
Clare and Lee are two independent women who both began working farms at a time when
independence was suspect. Vital Ties traces their evolving relationship with each other and all
the people touched by their lives -- farmers, townspeople, the local queers and the fundamentalist
preacher’s wife -- during three decades of change in rural Wisconsin.
“Kringle could become one of our community’ s finer writers of serious lesbian fiction.”
— Paula Langguth, Lambda Book Report
The Solitary Twist
by Elizabeth Pincus
ISBN 0-933216-93-9 $9.95
Ever the sucker for a damsel in distress, or in this case, the distressed damsel, Nell Fury is back,
in a second book by Elizabeth Pincus.
Elizabeth Pincus is a former P.I. living in San Francisco. She is the author of The Two-Bit
Tango and a film critic for the SF Weekly.
“San Francisco sleuth Nell Fury is fast, funny, and refreshing.”
— Alix Madrigal, SF Chronicle.
As You Desire
by Madeline Moore
ISBN 0-933216-95-5 $9.95
This first novel by Madeline Moore was selected as this year’s winner of Spinsters Lesbian
Fiction Contest.
Madeline Moore is an Associate Professor of English Literature at UC Santa Cruz and the author
of The Short Season Between Two Silences: The Mystical and the Political in the Novels of
Virginia Woolf as well as numerous articles, essays, and poems.
“This beautiful novel... resonates with wisdom. Madeline Moore's prose never falters in its
graceful, brave, poetic strength... Rich with surprising imager), rooted in irony, As You
Desire recalls the best lesbian writing of Paris in the thirties.” — Judge Sandy Boucher
Final Rest
by Mary Morell
ISBN 0-933216-94-7 $9.95
This much awaited mystery from Mary Morell is even better than the first!
This time we find detective Lucia Ramos engaged in some off-duty sleuthing with her lover,
Amy Traeger. Amy’s Aunt Meg has been arrested for murder. Can they get her off the hook?
Mary Morell runs a bookstore in Albuquerque. She won the 1990 Lesbian Fiction Contest
sponsored by Spinsters for her book, Final Session.
March/April 1993 4 Volume 15 Number 6
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Crazy Ladies Bookstore We also wondered whether this was a random act
4039 Hamilton Ave as we have been ordering this great comic ‘zine for
Cincinnati, OH 45223 several months without any problems. After reading
' Dear FBN, Stacy Sheehan’s letter in the previous issue of FBN, it
Thanks to everyone at FBN. You are wonderful. does not appear to be a fluke. The question is, is
Crazy Ladies has had an excellent year. Novem- Canada customs now going after women’s bookstores
ber was ahead of last November by 16% and Decem- or is it pissed off at Hothead’s violent actions toward
ber over the previous by 18%; the whole year up 8%. males and going after Giant Ass Publishing? Men
It has been most gratifying. have no sense of humor!
We have the good fortune of having added an- Maybe they're out to get both of us. Have any
other full time staff person — Jeri Burns. Jeri is very other women’s bookstores in Canada had recent sei-
creative and has increased our poster, jewelry & zures of Hothead Paisan or any other books, 'zines,
children’s books sales already even though she has magazines? Have the boys gotten tired of fighting the
been on staff only since August. queers at Little Sisters because they refused to lie
The feeling we all have right now is that Crazy down and fought back instead? Maybe they think
Ladies is in a growth cycle and it is very exciting to be that, because we're women, we are an easier target.
part of it. Thank you. They probably don’t know that us queers are the
Colleen Ernst S backbone of a lot of women’s bookstores.
Jahnet Hewsick
Everywoman’s Books Wild Seeds Bookstore and Cafe, Inc.
641 Johnson $t. 704 University Avenue
Victoria BC V8W 1M7 Canada Rochester, NY 14607
Dear FBN, Dear FBN,
Canada Customs strikes again! I was interested After four years of much joy and struggle, Wild
to note in your last issue (Jan/Feb 93) that Canada Seeds Bookstore & Cafe has closed. We have: a copy
Customs had seized 40 copies of Hothead Paisan bound of titles/authors Books in Print ‘90 - ‘91 free to anyone
for Toronto Women’s Bookstore (and other book- who'll pay postage; a less than one-year-old micro-
stores??) A similar incident happened to us at fiche machine, MR-Z Micron purchased from Inland,
Everywoman’s Books. In late November of 1992 we for sale for $50; a four year-old cash register available
had 35 copies of Issues # 1-7 of Hothead seized and sent for $75 or best offer.
back to the Inland Book Company. To date we have It’s time to move on — we love Wild Seeds and
not received any official notification from Canada it’s tough to let go — but it’s been a wonderful journey.
Customs regarding this seizure, so we don't know Many thanks for helping illuminate the road.
Why they were seized. Since we have had no formal In sisterhood,
explanation, we have not yet filed a complaint. Marge
March/April 1993
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Women’s Bookstop
333 Main Street West
Only Hamilton, Ontario
416-525-2970
the best NY WOME pi
lesbian Dear FBN,
As this year concludes I feel solid. The business
feminist books has grown significantly this year in spite of the hard
times we are swamped by. Every day we pull up our
MOSAIC OF AIR hearts and try to look forward to better times. Each
day we hear about more unemployment, more violent
Cherry Potts crimes and more environmental disasters. In Hamil-
Sixteen short stories written with ton, women attached to feminism have experienced
economy, punch, panache. divisions and hard feelings. Many of us have turned
C wher hny e's t v hoi ece r i s l tuc hid e a n d s a ussu bre jd ect to hand is N against each other when our aim was to work for the
highly charged lesbian space-opera, good of each other. There have been bitter winds
middle-aged women who merely blowing.
seem heterosexual or a very new Recently three of us arranged for a Women’s Lib-
slant on old Helen of Troy. This eration Night in an effort to reclaim this movement for
collection highlights the best of the the Liberation of Women. Crafts women were encour-
lesbian literary tradition. aged to sell for no charge (tables were provided) and
$9.95 paper entertainment was loosely woven throughout the eve-
ISBN 0-906500-44-3 • 208 pages ning. Theatre and music and poetry kept us all
amused. This was held at a not too churchy church
AN INTIMACY and we did relax and enjoy.
OF EQUALS
ZZ
Edited by Lilian Mohin
An anthology designed to examine
the interface between the main-
stream and our lesbian feminist lives. From this look-out point it would appear that we
New radical essays alongside crucial have identified many short falls or missing pieces in
earlier pieces look at our ethical our revolution. It has been very hard for us to accept
practice—what lesbians gain, if criticism constructively. I've felt like throwing in the
anything, from our connections both towel to all this political intelligence. But, after taking
within and against the mainstream. stock, a new breeze is in the air. Time out is part of the
$11.95 paper new breeze. Along with the recognition of the need
ISBN 0-906500-43-5 • 256 pages for rest periods comes a new confidence. We women
TOUGH AT THE TOP living feminism are very bright and sensitive. There
is no way we are going back to the kitchen. Looking
Nicky Edwards around I see a store that has blossomed over the past
A novel that moves effortlessly, and with riveting audacity, eight ycars. This is one of those news items which
between today's lesbian feminism, rural English life and a never make it to the dailies or nightly news. If we
powerful narrative voice from the Bronze Age. Despite as could see the steps each of us are taking we'd all feel
tm ha en y li v d ese t e or fr e Fn et ls i c ia ts y ,t h Se h i rlo lec yal am ndal e E lp so pp eu thla t i co on n v c ea rn g e c o ann dtr i cv he, ange l mig oh ut re nr , A m udo rr ee Lop orti dm e’i ss t dic e. a tS hu . r e B, u tt ,h e lr oe o k i s a td e aa lt lh . o fW te he
as they rebuild a derelict cottage—and a much earlier lesbian
comments. From the author of Mud and Stealing Time. women and men she has encouraged. And yes, it’s
$10.95 paper • ISBN 0-906500-45-I • 256 pages economically harsh, but look at the resourcefulness
in our community.
IN :YeYeJ4 Order today: 1-800-243-0138 Renee Albrecht
March/April 1993
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Cathy Cade November and December, the passage of Amendment
2934 Ford St. #28 2 received millions of dollars worth of press coverage.
Oakland, CA 94601 For sixty days, the issue was explained and explored
Dear FBN, in every way imaginable. On January 3, 1993, the Den-
I've recently become aware of how hard it is to ver Post released the results of a poll taken to determine
hire people. The interview question article is great. how many Amendment 2 supporters — in light of
However, “Do you have personal responsibilities increased awareness and the threat of boycott —
which may inhibit your duties (i.e., single parent, would change their vote. Only 4% said they would
etc.)” is off the mark. For many businesses it is even now vote no and support gay rights. Perhaps for a
illegal to ask a question like that. Isn't the point rather billion dollars, we could buy 10%. Or maybe not.
“how do you handle it when personal responsibilities
conflict with your job duties?” I will spare both you ZIRA
and me a rage that the former question elicits in me,
but it might be interesting to hear others discuss how Another popular myth is that coming out is a
' they handle issues of job duties vs. personal responsi- cure-all. I, and many lesbians I've talked to, are out! Still,
bilities in bookstores. What works when conflict we know countless people who voted against us. My
comes up? What doesn’t work? lover’s co-worker, who is allegedly pro-gay, went into
Cathy the booth and voted against us. Why? Because a gay
friend had offended her the week before, so she
Our Power Press “showed him.” As sickened as I am by this tale, I am
P.O. Box 6680 more disgusted still that the fate of our lives was ever
Denver, CO 80206 allowed to rest in the hands of imbeciles. That the voters
Thoughts from a Colorado lesbian: in Colorado were given the right to vote on our rights,
Yes, Colorado is a hate-filled state. On both sides. as if we were second-class citizens begging for a crumb.
They've always hated us, and now we hate them. I still In mid-December, I realized with a start that I'd
consider it a miracle that no violence erupted on No- been mildly depressed for about six weeks. When I
vember 4th — a cold night after the election when connected it to election night, I tried to figure out why
7,000 angry and depressed lesbians and gays gathered the results affected me so much. After hours of journal
for a vigil on the Capitol steps. writing, I came to see it’s because I felt the accumulation
No lesbian or gay outside of Colorado (except of quiet hatred that’s been directed at me since the age
perhaps for our Oregon counterparts) can possibly of ten, when my lesbianism surfaced. And it was over-
understand the extent of emotional damage this com- whelming. Beginning with my parents and extending
munity has suffered — collectively and individually into every sphere of my adult life, the sum of hatred is
— due to the passage of Amendment 2. I have heard too much to absorb all at once. I try to take it one day at
story after story of personal betrayal and, for the sake a time, but it’s hard to avoid the bleak, big picture.
of my own sanity, have stopped polling people. An I am a third-generation Denver native — a rarity
extremely complex issue (the degree of acceptance of in this beautiful city that sits in the shadow of the
our homosexual lifestyles) came down to an incredi- Rocky Mountains. I’ve never considered moving any-
bly simple, yet telling, vote. And thousands of friends, where else. Until now. But where would I go?
family, and colleagues went into the booth and one by Kasha Songer, owner of the Book Garden (the
one cast their judgement. lesbian bookstore in Denver) recently told me that she
Many Coloradoans have denied the scope of had received three letters from vendors stating they
damage by explaining that many voters misunder- had considered boycotting the Book Garden but de-
stood the issue, believing it to be one of “special cided against it. I was dumbfounded to hear they had
rights.” This is a lie. even considered it. Kasha has spent eight years carv-
Before the election, we spent $700,000 explaining ing out a safe place for not only the women of Colo-
the issue. Perhaps that wasn't enough, but it was all we rado, but also those in six nearby states. How dare
had. Still, I'm left to wonder what would be enough. In these other lesbian and gay businesses begin to judge
March/April 1993
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
us, too. Where will it all end? gay identity. Take a moment to contemplate the chill-
Boycott Colorado, but use discretion, and as you ing effect of Amendment Two on these children. There
do it, please send positive energy to the lesbians and is nothing in Colorado's sanction of discrimination
gays who still live here, for we are hurting beyond against lesbians and gay men in housing, employ-
belief. ment, “fringe” benefits, and in every other aspect of
Sincerely, their (potential) lives to help them choose life.
Jennifer S. Croft ° We also know death from gay-bashing. In the
height of the fight against Proposition 9 in Oregon
LERA Hattie Mae Cohens and Brian Mock, a Black lesbian
and a white gay man, were burned to death when
FBN, as they say, received for publication a copy their home was fire-bombed by “neighbors” who felt
of the following letter to Publishers Weekly. that “queers” had no right to live in “their” neighbor-
hood. Laws like Colorado's are taken by many as
Publishers Weekly sanction for gay-bashing. The documented cases of
249 West 17 Street gay-bashing have skyrocketed by as much as 80% in
New York NY 10011 some parts of Colorado since the introduction of
To the Editor, Amendment Two. It’s “open seaon” on gays —and on
I have lain awake nights over Clarissa Pinkola straight men and women who “look” gay.
Estés My Say (PW, December 14, 1992) and the Tat- Estés’ offer to sing for the lesbian and gay dead is
tered Cover’s fervently expressed hope (PW, Novem- very much appreciated. We have many dead to grieve
ber 6) that writers not participate in the nationwide and, no thanks to laws like Colorado's Amendment 2
boycott of Colorado that protests the passage of and the many other such initiatives it will spawn, we
Amendment 2, the initiative that nullified gay rights will have many more.
laws in three communities and prohibits the passage It would be nice if the Colorado law could be
of any gay rights laws in the entire state. If the people someone else's problem. But similar propositions
of Colorado can pass a law repealing the civil rights of have already been or will soon be introduced in eleven
one group, they can “repeal” the civil rights of any additional states. If we don’t stop it now, here, as we
minority. Who will be the next target? And who will did in Oregon, be assured that it will come to your
be the next after that? ` state. It will come to your front door. It will be in your
In her essay Singing over the Bones: The Colorado bookstore. And it will be even harder to fight then.
Boycott, Estés eloquently mis-focuses the question We know that boycotts are effective. We've seen
with her “strengthening story” about singing over the their success from Arizona to South Africa.
bones of the dead. Do boycotts hurt the innocent? Of course they do.
But Estés missed the point: The lesbian and gay So does bigotry. When asked if economic sanctions
community is not dead, nor is the fight against would hurt Black South Africans Nelson Mandela
Amendment Two and against other insidious at- responded, “Yes — and the only thing that will hurt
tempts to legitimize discrimination against gay peo- us more is if you don't boycott.” Or as Mother Jones, a
ple and other minority groups. tireless union organizer during the Colorado Miners’
Estés is right that the lesbian and gay community Strikes put it, “Pray for the dead — and fight like hell
knows what death looks like. We have seen tremen- for the living!”
dous death in recent ycars: Do the right thing: Boycott Colorado. Don't
e Our AIDS death has been enormous. There is spend your money there. Boycott intelligently, boycott
not a bookseller in this country whose shelves are not thoughtfully, but boycott. For the sake of the lives you
haunted by the ghosts of books unwritten due to the may save — or better yet, for the sake of your own
much-too-early deaths of their authors. human dignity.
° We all know that teen suicide is epidemic in this Carol Seajay
country. Fewer know that one-third of the teens who Editor & Publisher
attempt suicide are grappling with issues of lesbian or Feminist Bookstore News
March/April 1993 Volume 15 Number 6
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Sasha Alyson I don't mind if a moderate part of my ABA fees
Alyson Publications goes toward other programs that directly benefit
40 Plympton St. bookstores. But when a substantial amount (how
Boston MA 02118 much? I've no way of knowing) goes toward an ill-
Dear Bernie, conceived attempt for the ABA to enter the publishing
I write this with some reluctance, because I have field, and to compete with the companies that are
long admired the ABA, as well as the energy you are subsidizing it, then something is very wrong.
ap mut ot uin ng t oin f t o b a i dt . f B eeu lt i n gI W tho an t d e tr h e if e v y ero -u i n a cr re e a sa iw ngar e A Bo Af the ZR]
convention fees are generating among many small
and medium-sized publishers. Already some smaller and more innovative
I was told in Las Vegas (1990), by a member of the presses (i.e., those that make their publishing deci-
: ABA staff, that rates went up substantially that year to sions based on ideas and talent, not on the most
acclimatize us for the even higher rates that would be profitable fads) have decided they can’t afford to
charged in New York. exhibit. Will future conventions be increasingly dom-
But by that logic, rates should have come back inated by sidelines and nonbooks, instead of by these
down after New York (1991). Instead, they actually publishers?
went up slightly for Anaheim (1992). For Miami Yes, I realize that ABA effectively has a monopoly
(1993), I believe rates stayed the same, but payment on national book trade shows, and that since you can
was due earlier, which is merely a veiled rate increase. sell all your booths at higher prices, there's not much
(We sent you a 50 percent deposit on our $1950 booth pressure to lower them. But you should realize that a
back in August. Surely that establishes our commit- great deal of loyalty that I once felt to the ABA is
ment, and protects you in case we change our mind. dissolving as I come to feel like one more cash cow in
Why must the balance be due “upon receipt” for an a herd that is being milked for a number of new
invoice mailed in October?) projects, some of which don’t seem to be doing anyone
By comparison, booths in our area were going for any good. Nor am I the only one feeling this way.
$550 to $600 in 1987. Our booth location may have Sincerely,
improved slightly since then, but not nearly that much. Sasha Alyson
Bernie Rath members of our publisher relations team who visited
American Booksellers Association with you in Boston this past April. I was in Boston at
560 White Plains Road the time, though part of a different team. As a direct
Tarrytown NY 10591 result of that input, you can claim a great deal of the
Dear Sasha, credit for there not having been a booth price increase
Thanks for your letter of December 3, 1992 this year. There were some members of our finance
Wherein you take me and ABA to task for our policies committee who thought that we should not set a pre-
vis a vis the ABA tradeshow, specifically the timing of cedent by not taking a reasonable price increase each
the payments and the price of the booths. I have al- year. I am a grcat believer in having prices of all of our
ready had a long talk with Deacon McCubbin on the products reflect fair market value and to be factored
subject and am copying him in on this response, but I for inflation, which in this arca runs between five
do not know who else was on your “interested parties” percent and six percent annually. If inflation is not
distribution list. I would appreciate a copy of the list so taken into account when one is pricing one’s products
that I can provide these people with this response. over a five-year period, you lose a quarter of your
By way of background you should be aware that purchasing power with the same money.
your views had already been conveyed to me by the According to our records, beginning in 1990 in Las
March/April 1993
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Vegas booth prices have risen no more than 20 percent ABA and publishers. Of the publishers that I spoke
cumulatively over four shows, just keeping pace with a with, few thought there was much to be gained other
five percent inflation rate. A low-end booth has gone than administrative headaches from having 10 percent
from $1,000 to $1,200, a mid-range booth from $1,300 to due in August (received in September); then billing 40
$1,575 and a high-end booth from $1,600 to $1,975. I percent in October (received in January) and then bill-
began with 1990, because that is the year in which we ing 50 percent in December (received in February).
implemented our three-tier booth pricing policy and we While the cash flow is nice for us to have, it was not the
hope eventually to have exhibit centers where we are major reason we made the change. The primary reason
confident enough about the quality of the space and the RI
traffic in each area to charge one price for all. Prior to
1989, we sometimes had as many as a dozen or more
booth prices, often increasing by $25 or $50 increments was a marketing change wherein we hope to be able
depending on where they were located in the hall or in to be in a position in one or two years time to market
an aisle. When you compared your booth price in 1987, and assign exhibit space for the following year’s con-
the top-end booth was going for $1,300 and comparing vention at the current convention which is a very
an entry level booth in 1987 to a top-line booth in 1993, common practice. When we reach that stage, whether
is not an accurate representation of what has transpired. or not we will still require 50 percent down is not
Indeed, a more accurate comparison would be the one known at this time. Frankly, yoursis the only “official”
from $1,300 to $1,975, which is $675 or 50 percent over complaint I have had, though of course I did read
seven shows, an approximate seven percent annual about two or three exhibitors in Publishers Weekly. For
increase over time. Bottom-end booths were $500 in your general information, the 1993 tradeshow is com-
1987, but there were only a handful of them, with some pletely sold out and there is now a waiting list of six
as you have noted at $550, $600, $650, $700, $750 etc. The publishers who would like to exhibit there. Precedent
existence of this type of entry level booth has been indicates that between now and then we will probably
phased out, as a result of the growth of the show and buildup to a list of more than 50 exhibitors who would
supply and demand. Seven years of successive sell-out like to have the opportunity to exhibit at the ABA in May.
shows would tend to indicate to anyone that giving Sasha, some day we will sit down for two hours
away prime exhibit space at less than market for new and I will tell you everything that went into the decision
exhibitors and wannabee’s is not good business. At an to publish the encyclopedia. Competing with our exhib-
average per sq. ft. rate of about $17, our tradeshow — itors was the furthest thing from our minds and in fact
which is among the50 largest tradeshows in the country we created a unique product so as not to. The cash
— is very much in the middle of the market, which is operating loss of the encyclopedia was covered out of
where I think it ought to be positioned. Many national existing unrestricted reserves even while we continued
industry shows charge well into the $20 range and some to have a restricted strategic reserve of more than $1
such as high-tech shows well into the $30 range. million on deposit and an operating line of $2 million
LR available. Throughout the two-year period of the “mak-
ing and breaking” of the encyclopedia project, we spent
more than $1.2 million on public radio underwriting in
As to the other issues, I agree with you that per- support of bookstores. I regret as much as the next
haps the October statements should not have required person that the encyclopedia did not become a new
payment due on receipt but just like booksellers (or so source of annual income as I feel that the organization
I hear) publishers often take 60 or 90 days to pay that is far too dependent on its tradeshow income.
last bill. We will not receive the last of those payments I hope this answers at least some or all of your
due on receipt in November until March. Most of the concerns about what's going on here. Please fell free to
money is expected in January and February. Having call on me anytime to explore this further if you wish.
two 50 percent deposits rather than three 33 Best wishes for a happy and successful holiday season.
percenter’s, or some combination of 10 percent, 60 Sincerely,
percent, 30 percent was felt to be more efficient for both Bernard E. Rath O
March/April 1993 10 Volume 15 Number,6
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Three teenage boys arrested in connection with
' the bombing of a lesbian/gay bookstore in Lancas- Yes! There will
ter, PA have been found guilty. Two adults also inist Publishers contingent in the March on Washing-
charged in the bombing are expected to go to trial ton (April 25, 1993) and a chance to get together on
this spring. Saturday thanks to Pokey Anderson (Inklings/Hous-
Daniel J. VanAulen, 48, Linda A. Ward, 30, two ton) and some timely organizing on her part.
17-year-old boys and a 15-year-old boy were charged We're setting up two “events”: a dinner for femi-
with arson and various counts of criminal conspiracy nist bookstores and publishers and a contingent cele-
in the bombing of The Closet Bookstore. Bookstore brating feminist bookstores and publishing and our
owner Nancy Helm decided to close the store in May contribution to the lesbian and gay movement. Pokey
of 1992, after one year of operation. Two explosions at has reserved us a place in the march and is organizing
the store (in June and August 1991), three bomb the dinner and the signs. FBN will do PR, registration,
threats and anticipated harassment from a local anti- and act as treasurer.
pornography group forced the store's closure. The dinner/mecting (which, FBN is told, makes
The District Attorney of Lancaster has found that your trip to Washington a tax deductible business
there is enough evidence to bring VanAulen and Ward See March, page 19
to trial. Although a court date has not yet been set, the
DA will probably review the case in either March or
May, according to Detective E.J. Able. Of the juveniles,
one has been found guilty and the other two have pled
guilty. All three are likely to participate in an “in-home
services” program that includes community service
and counseling, Able said. bookstores, have recently seized magazines going into
Although the Lancaster-based Intelligencer Jour- two feminist bookstores and seized books and maga-
nal reported that police refused to speculate on the zines going into two general bookstores.
motives or call them gay bashing, VanAulen report- Thirty-five copies of Hothead Paisan (#1-7) were
e md aly te r a iad lm hit et e d sa wt h a int h the e h wad i n db oee wn o“ fo f f then e d e bd o” o k b sty o r t eh . e In s te oi rz ie ad , Bfr ro itm is h a C s oh luip mm be in a)t it no NE ov ve er myw beo rm a an n’ ds B wo eo rk es s( eV ni tc-
addition, he reportedly admitted owning the explo- back to Inland. Everywoman’s learned of the seizure
sives used in the bombings: M-1000's, also known as only from Inland and, despite many phone calls, have
“quarter sticks.” In connection with the bombing in- yet to receive official notification that the magazines
vestigation, police seized 30 cases of Class B and C have been seized. Notification from Customs is re-
fireworks and illegal explosives found in VanAulen’s quired before an appeal can be filed. This is the first
giarnag e, aan d vmaorne .t h an— 15 0 Kcaseas r oef n ex p loCsivaesr sntoirvedal seizure in Everywoman’s’ 18-year history.
See Customs, page 21.
11 March/April 1993
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Lesbian/Gay Booksellers Call For Colorado Boycott
To: The Board of Directors of the American Booksellers Association and the American Library Association
With the approach of winter came the even more chilling news of the adoption of Amendment 2 by the
voters of Colorado. This amendment, titled the “No Special Privileges” amendment on the ballot, actually
confers special privileges on the heterosexual population of Colorado and strips gays, lesbians and bisexuals
of their equal rights under the state constitution. This affront to human dignity cannot be allowed to stand.
Efforts to overturn or repeal the amendment are underway and, as booksellers with a particular commitment to
individual freedom of expression, we support those efforts. Among efforts is a concerted plan to bring economic
pressure on the citizens of Colorado through a boycott of that state's industries and companies. Tourism and convention
travel make up a large part of Colorado's income. Therefore, we join Boycott Colorado in urging that all citizens from
around the country cancel their plans to visit Colorado for vacation or business purposes.
The American Booksellers Association and the American Library Association both have planned activities for the
month of January, 1993 in Colorado. The ALA is holding their mid-winter meeting in Denver, and the ABA plans to
hold a children’s bookselling school at the same time. We feel that if those meetings are held as planned, they will
undermine the effort to penalize Colorado for its stand against equal rights and be a slap in the face of those lesbians,
gays, bisexuals and supportive heterosexuals who are seeking to overturn this repressive amendment.
We therefore call upon the boards of directors of the ABA and the ALA to immediately cancel those
sessions or to relocate them to an area outside of the state of Colorado, and to put themselves publicly on
record with a statement that no other activities or events will be scheduled or held in the state of Colorado
until Amendment 2 is repealed or overturned. We also ask that these boards publicize their disapproval of
Amendment 2 to the widest possible audience, both within and outside their membership.
Harvey Hertz Jim Schneider Beth Gundersen & John Neal
A Brother's Touch Category Six Sally Engler White Rabbit Books
Minneapolis, MN Denver, CO Lodestar Books Greensboro, NC
JDime a cBioe nnn e tM :t aacu cbou Nubrgb i o nM awr g&ın y a a nS V C i:n in Materr WAh i teJ iRmab b iBt aBxotokesr
Lambda Rising New Orleans, LA Diane Johnson Raleigh, NC
WenS John Mitchell Proihislovn MA James Funderburk
JLaackm Gbadrma an R Ni s iSnoDgk st o' re O Cwraeig RCohd a ir lWohtittee , R abNbiCt Books
Baltimore MD Jerry Sprouse Oscar Wilde :
Laribda Passages New York, NY Dennis Komac &
P RAE eE hMR oObI o t : hi : M LOBi aa eu vm at ec n i h , R dy ,aa n a MnF rDLd E J B aAyr db u e 'coO seu T t OTG rI Sr lB aOo nou No dn k od ,G s rv F a a Ln n i df s I T RS a a au Me ps i I d,h s t &ers
Brigi Piske Lit Tsoabtya t Jeo h lnesnon, OEuta l lRai g hNt eBTo ok Bs iSlNl OCToCrIedSes
LRaisc hVaergdas , L NabVo nLtibeu Atyu s tBiõnok, s T VXir g Cinaira r iBee a cBha, r VnAet tQ u &. w iord U
A Different Light Kevin Gray Brett Shingledecker Ed Hermance
SNano r mFraannc i sLcoa,u rCiAla L&ob oD'Baololkas ,S t oTrXe PCeohpilcea gLoik, e I LU s PGhioilvaadnenlip hs i aR,o oPmA
Josy Catogio Jim Todd Bill Kanouff Ed Devereaux
A Different Light Max Images Tomes & Treasures Unabridged Books
West Hollywood, CA Norfolk, VA Tampa, FL Chicago, IL
Roz Parr Rex Mitchell John L. Parks (The above statement
A Different Light Phoenix Rising Unicorn Bookstore was dated December 4, .
New York, NY Richmond, VA West Hollywood, CA 1992.)
12 Volume 15 Number 6
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
only five phone calls after the resolution was passed
— all in support of the resolution — a situation that
would seem to speak more to a communication gap
than its members’ views on the matter.
The American Library Association, unable to
Thirty-three gay bookstores joined together to move its Mid-Winter meetings in such a short period
petition the ABA Board of Directors to support the of time, has resolved not to return to Colorado or hold
Colorado boycott by either canceling the Booksellers any meetings in Colorado until Amendment Two is
School (held after the ALA Mid-Winter meetings) or repealed.
by moving it out of state, to go on record publicly with There has been some talk of bringing the issue
s st ca ht ee dm ule en dt s o rt h a ht e l dn o i n o t Ch oer lo r a ac dt oi v i ut nie ts i l o Ar m e ev ne dn mts e n w t i l Tl w b oe d Ai BrM Aec t l my e mto b a e rth she iy p A B mA c c tm. ine gm b de ur rsh inip g— f thor e a c o nv vCo et ne t ia ot n S t ih ne
is repealed, and to publicize its disapproval of
Amendment 2 to the widest possible audience both
` within and outside its membership. (See opposite
page.)
The ABA Board considered the proposal in a
telephone conference meeting and a task force was
formed to consider the issues. In the end the Board
decided not to honor the boycott but to take other
measures including adding a special session with At the January 24 meeting, the ABA Board “de-
Sasha Alyson to the Children’s Booksellers school, feated” (sic) a resolution submitted by independent
publishing and circulating a statement that ABA bookstore advocate and board member Bill Petrocelli
“deplores discrimination of any kind and strongly that asked ABA to establish a five-point program to
encourages its 8,000 members to speak out strongly protect independent bookselling. The resolution
against discrimination in all its forms,” and commit- maintained that, just as a free press depends on a
ting a sum of $10,000 (one estimate of how much it large, diverse group of authors and publishers, the
would cost to move the Booksellers School) to concept of a free press also depends upon a diverse
counter Amendment Two. (See Resolution, this group of independent booksellers.
page.) Details of how ABA would raise these issues All of the resolution’s five points seem, to FBN, to
to its membership have not yet been revealed. ABA’s fall well within ABA's statement of purpose. While
vice president Avin Domnitz told FBN that the recip- asking around for opinions as to why this proposal
ient of the funds has not yet been designated as the was addressed with such apparent hostility, FBN was
legal challenge to the amendment is being filed by told that two chains had threatened ABA with law-
the City of Denver — an organization that is presum- suits if the proposal passed — a situation that, if true,
ably capable of financing the legal costs. The Board needs to be publicized and confronted. The resolution
has, however, authorized ABA President Chuck calls for:
Robinson and Executive Director Bernie Rath to as- o Committing the ABA to preserving the present
sign the funds should they be needed between Board system of diverse, independent bookselling and giv-
meetings. ing that effort highest priority;
It would be an understatement to say that many o Directing ABA staff to research and investigate
ABA members, while understanding the difficulty of a specific list of issues related to preserving the system
moving a long-scheduled meeting at short notice, of independent bookselling;
were deeply disappointed that the ABA would not o Directing ABA to undertake a public relations
commit to not refusing to hold future meetings in campaign explaining the threat to the system of inde-
Colorado until Amendment Two is repealed. Despite pendent bookselling and its significance for the right
receiving a petition from 33 booksellers asking that of free expression;
ABA honor the boycott, ABA reports that it received ° Giving the ABA's support and cooperation to
13 March/April 1993
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
the FTC and to other law enforcement efforts to end
discriminatory pricing and unfair practices in the
book business;
e Undertaking to persuade Congress to investi-
gate the current crisis, evaluate the effectiveness of
existing laws to deal with it and, if necessary, to enact
new laws to protect the system of independent book- The Sixth International Feminist Book Fair (IFBF-
selling. 6) will be held in Melbourne, Australia July 27-31,
The Board rejected the proposal and chose in- 1994. Dates are confirmed — as is the receipt of the
stead to establish a taskforce (composed of the execu- $120,000 grant that the IFBF-6 had been awarded be-
tive board plus Andy Ross and Bill Petrocelli) to fore the new (very conservative) state government
implement portions of ABA's new strategic plan took power. The new government cut the funding of
(adopted at the same meeting) that deal with “helping almost every organization that has a social conscious-
to promote a legal and nondiscriminatory bookselling ness or any tinge of radicalness. But even the conser-
environment.” vatives recognized that a couple thousand women
The as-yet-unaddressed question is whether ABA flying to Australia for a feminist book fair creates a
can fulfill the new stated mission — to promote the significant influx of currency and so, ironically, the
success Of (all of) its member stores — or whether it is global recession (and the economic argument) won
impossible to work to both the success of independent the day for feminists.
stores and of chain stores and superstores, since the The focus to the Fair will be Indigenous, Pacific
success of the latter seems to be contingent on the and Asian writing and publishing. This is the first time
downfall of many of the former. that the Fair has been held in the southern hemisphere.
Petrocelli has raised important and provocative Fair organizers will be attending the American Book-
questions about whether it is appropriate for ABA to sellers Association Convention to promote the Fair
try to serve both kinds of bookstores and whether and to meet with publishers and others who are inter-
legislation is needed to preserve a democratic means ested in attending or exhibiting at the Fair. (Booth
of distribution of ideas and books in the current envi- 0612, with Feminist Bookstore News.)
ronment. Several other women’s studies and feminist con-
We look forward to seeing ABA address these ferences are being scheduled in coordination with the
essential issues in depth and with all due speed in Fair to enable participants to attend two or more
American Bookseller and elsewhere. — CS events for the same air fare.
Volume 15 Number 6
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
The Fair in Melbourne will mark the tenth anniver-
sary of the first IFBF held in London in 1984. Previous
fairs have been held in London, 1984; Oslo, 1986, Mon-
treal, 1988; Barcelona, 1990; and Amsterdam, 1992.
The program of the recent Fair in Amsterdam
included 182 writers from 52 countries, over 200 pub- Women in Publishing (U.K.)'s much coveted Pan-
lishers from every continent and thousands of visitors. dora and New Venture Awards were presented at
Over 100 media organizations from twenty countries WIP’s annual holiday party in December. The Pan-
sent journalists. dora Award, which is given for personal achievement
The Fair will have a huge impact on Australian and promoting the status of women in publishing,
writing and publishing and promises to be the major was presented to Ros de Lanerolle. The New Venture
cultural event of 1994. The Fair has a budget of $1.5 Award went to Scarlet Press.
million and organizers estimate that the fair will bring Of Ros de Lanerolle, Jane Hindle, emcee for the
over $2 million into the country. It will be held at the evening said:
'Royal Exhibition Buildings, Carlton. “As many of you will know, Ros’ contribution to
To get on the mailing list for the IFBF-6, send your feminist publishing in the UK has been truly signifi-
name and address to IFBF-6, PO Box 212, North Mel- cant. As managing director at The Women’s Press for
bourne, Victoria 3051, Australia or fax 011613-329-9238 over eight years, she published a vast range of mate-
or stop by Booth 0612 at ABA. Book Fair organizers will rial and is particularly renowned for having brought
find it helpful if you identify yourself as a bookseller, many Black woman authors into the public eye. Some
publisher, writer, distributor, librarian, arts networker, of her most famous ‘names’ include Ellen Kuzwayo,
etc., woman of color (Black, Native, Indigenous, Asian, Titse Dangaremba (winner of the Commonwealth
Pacific, and/or particular ethnicity), and/or lesbian, so Prize for Literature), Merle Collins, Joan Riley and
that you receive all of the appropriate mailings. Rosalie Birtell — women whose books have enriched
many of our lives.”
“Scarlet Press," Jane continued, “represents one
of the highlights of 1992 in women’s publishing: a
brand new press formed by five women with back-
grounds in academia, publishing and journalism.
Having perceived a need for a specifically non-fiction
Independent Bookselling Today! is a new, monthly press which is issue-oriented, provocative and femi-
newsletter for independent bookstore owners and nist, they see their main areas of publishing in cultural
workers. It was founded by Donna Paz, former man- studies, Europe, health, lesbian and gay. Two of its
ager of the Davis-Kidd Booksellers store in Nashville launch titles, Superwomen and the Double Burden and
and the owner of Paz & Associates, bookstore consul- The European Women's Almanac have a European per-
tants. Paz described the newsletter to Publishers spective — both have been sold for publication in the
Weekly as “an offshoot of my consulting work. I want USA and Canada. Thoir third title, Women Talk Sex, is
it to be a real nuts-and-bolts thing.” She also notes that an anthology of new autobiographical writing. In ad-
with “the proliferation of chain superstores, indepen- dition, they have launched a pamphlet series, ”Lesbi-
dent bookstores must fine-tune their operations and ans Talk” which kicked off with a title by Cherry
differentiate their stores.” Smyth, Lesbians Talk Queer Notions.
The newsletter will focus on business manage- A record number of nominations were received
ment. Subscriptions are $65/year with membership for this year’s awards. The short-list for the Pandora
available only to independent bookstores. Those who Awards also included Janice Price, Managing Direc-
subscribe before March 1 will receive a free copy of a tor at Routledge, and Elsbeth Lindner, for her work
report entitled “Successfully Handling Difficult at Methuen, for her contributions to the Minerva
Customers.” Independent Bookselling Today!, 212 Sloan imprint and for her own, new imprint, Lime Tree. The
Rd., Nashville TN 37209; 615-298-2303. — CS short list for the New Venture Award also included
15 March/April 1993
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
could ask for.”
| JENIFA
LEVIN f| SARAH SCHULMAN
THE SEA OF LIGHT EMPATHY
“Levin might be the female counterpart “Schulman’s story is a triumph. It's as
of Paul Monette; her novel reverberates hot as it is clever, as scared as it is brave.”
in the imagination long after the reader —HNeil Bartlett
has turned the final pages.” “Empathy is a genuine pleasure... Nobody
—Publishers Weekly describes countercultural New York more
DUT TB ON P® LU) ME © PLUME CONTEMPORA RYc Fo ICTSnIONcv hi un lc min ag nl .y ” — —or € &m no ter re t ae inn mde ea nr tin g Wly e— ekt lh yan
African Woman, a bi-annual magazine launched in a petition for a secret ballot election with the NLRB
March 1988 in London; The Women Artists Slide Li- the same day. FBN readers have been invited to write
brary, for their bi-monthly Women’s Art Magazine and or call the publisher (Clayton Carlson, Senior Vice
(with Open Letters) the tri-lingual International President, HarperCollins, 1160 Battery St., San Fran-
Women’s Art Diary; and the Bloomsbury Guide to cisco CA 94111; 415-477-4400) and to send a copy to
W As-Li CWA (240 Second Street, San Francisco CA 94105) as
a way to offer their support for the union and a
speedy election.
The decision to unionize followed three years of
efforts by nonmanagement employees to resolve
workplace issues. In March of 1990, HarperSF em-
Over 75% of the nonmanagement employees of ployees formed a group to address issues of compen-
HarperCollins San Francisco (HCSF) have signed pe- sation, grievance, and overtime. Editorial staff, in this
titions stating that they wish to be represented in context, are considered to be managerial.
collective bargaining by the Communications Work- Although unions are unusual in the publishing
ers of America (CWA). CWA has entered into a Na- industry in the U.S., HCSF employees believe their
tional Labor Relations Board (NLRB) hearing with action will send a strong message to industry col-
HCSF management to determine an appropriate bar- leagues who work under similar conditions. 82% of
gaining unit for a union representation election. the employees in the nonmanagement group are
HCSF nonmanagement employees announced women in their mid- to late-twenties.
their decision to be represented by CWA in Decem- This is the first time HarperSF employees have
ber and asked HarperCollins to voluntarily recog- filed a petition with the NLRB. HarperCollins New
nize the union. This request was denied. CWA filed York joined the United Auto Workers in 1974, follow-
March/April 1993 16 Volume 15 Number 6
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
ing independent union representation which began operates 287 shows in 25 countries. It organizes the
soon after World War II. London International Book Fair and Book PubWorld
HarperCollins San Francisco is comprised of in NY. Reed will encourage international interest in
150+ employees working in six divisions: Harper San the ABA, will incorporate Book PubWorld (a supplier
Francisco, Collins Publishers San Francisco (the Day show) into ABA and “expect[s] to keep the associated
in the Life series); The Understanding Business; Access conference and seminar program.”
Productions (Access travel guides), HarperCollins Di-
rect (a new division set up to develop techniques for
selling the group’s high-end gift books into nontradi-
tional markets), and HarperCollins West, a new gen-
eral trade venture.
HarperCollins San Francisco is a division of Bookpeople sales and promotion director David
HarperCollins, which is a subsidiary of NewsCorp, a Humphrey has announced that bookstores can now
public company in which Rupert Murdoch and his purchase all titles from selected independent publish-
family have the controlling interest. ers at a 45% discount. The publishers participating in
union iI zn ed a n la s tu n fr ae ll la .ted effort, staff at Cody's Bookstore this effort are Papier-Mache Press, The Crossing Press,
Heyday Books, The Book Publishing Company and
Sounds True Audio. The discount is automatically
applied to every Featured Publisher title for all orders
that meet Bookpeople’s standard minimum require-
ment (10 or more assorted items or 5 copies of a single
title) and is automatically assigned to all electronic
The American Booksellers Association entered orders.
into an agreement with Reed Exhibition Companies
Weekly, Library Journal and School Library Journal) to
form a joint venture that will own and operate the
annual ABA convention. Under the agreement Reed
will acquire a 49% interest in the convention for ap- The Oklahoma State Center for the Book has
proximately $17,500,000 which will be paid to ABA in canceled a three-day residency by out lesbian writer
1993. The 1994 convention (Los Angeles) will be the Dorothy Allison (Bastard Out of Carolina; Trash). The
first to be produced under the new program. Bernie residency was scheduled as part of a National Book
Rath, according to PW, states that the proceeds of the Foundation series which is, in turn, co-sponsored by
sale will be place in an endowment fund, the proceeds the Library of Congress’ Center for the Book. The
of which will be used to subsidize operations allowing National Book Foundation sends National Book
“the association to pursue greater opportunities for Award winners and finalists throughout the nation
the book industry and our bookseller members” and via a program supported by a grant from the Lila
“will enhance the financial stability of the association Wallace-Reader’s Digest Fund. Initial reports indi-
instead of us being dependent on the vagaries of the cated that Allison's program had bcen canceled be-
trade show [income].” Rath assumes that the conven- cause she is a(n out) lesbian and/or because of
tion will continue to grown and “our 51% ultimately objections to Allison's 1983 poctry collection Women
will be essentially the same amount of money as our Who Hate Me (Fircbrand). Later reports from Okla-
100% now." homa denicd both of those possibilities but offered
PW also reported that the ABA had closed on the only that they had not asked for Allison. Meanwhile
Tarrytown property that it had been pursing for the some officials in Oklahoma, at the National Book
last two years. Foundations, at Dutton, and Allison herself are look-
Reed, the world’s largest exhibition organizer, ing into ways to send her to Oklahoma.
17 March/April 1993
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
CHILDREN’S & YOUNG ADULT BOOKS The Night Audrey’s Vibrator Spoke by Andrea Natalie (Cleis)
The Daddy Machine by Johnny Valentine; illustrated by Lynette BB and the Diva by Rupert Kinnard (Alyson)
Schmidt (Alyson Wonderland) That’s Ms. Bulldyke to You, Charlie by Jane Caminos Madwoman)
A Boy's Best Friend by Joan Alden; illustrated by Catherine LESBIAN ANTHOLOGIES
H Wo hp ek nin s H e( rA ol ey ss o Dn i e W bo yn d Per enla nn yd ) Raife Durant (Atheneum) P Wer rs itis et e fn rt o mD e s ti hre e e Hd ei at re td eb dy it eJ do a bn y N Ae nst il te a ( LA . l y Ps ao cn e) (Baby Steps)
D Tr ho ew n Di an yg T o hf e y S t Pep uh t e n a TJ ao xn e s o n b y R a iB ne bt ot we s G bre ye n Je o h(B na nn yt a m V) alentine; E Wr oo lt fic G N ira li sa d a te d i Vt ae sd s a rb y e d K ita et dh e r bi yn e A V n. n eF o Mrr ce Ks at y a n (Td e n B a Pr eb ra cr ea n tG )rier (Naiad)
illustrated by Lynette Schmidt (Alyson Wonderland) Poetry of Sex by Tee Corinne (Banned Books)
GAY MEN’S FICTION LESBIAN FICTION
W Ali mnt oe sr t HEy ise ts o r b yy b L ye v C hR ra ip sth oa pe hl e ( rS t . B rM amar t (i Dn o’s n) ald I. Fine) R (Fu irn en bi rn ag n d F )iercely Toward a High Thin Sound by Judith Katz
DL L ra et t ei an mt h M e L o ifDo en e a d bi n y B uM Br oa y n h H ta uht set t a o n nD e b a (dy S t . b J y Ma i m aR re ta in ndM ’saa )lln r Kiq eu ne a n ( S t (H. a M rca or ut rin t ’ s B) race) E TAm eq rup raa imt bh la ey r i n G b e iy r l b s yS a br yCah a r R oS elc b h eAu cn clm as h a a Bn w r o ( wE (H. nP o . u (g CD h iu ttt yot no n L ) iM ghif tf sl )in)
GAY MEN'S ANTHOLOGIES On Ships at Sea by Madelyn Arnold (St. Martin’s)
Men on Men 4 edited by George Stambolian (Plume) LESBIAN MYSTERY
D F HM li eee s rscm eho b n e tt ar oe n n d t Do sf a t r h e et d e h i e te W de d iF to ea r dm b d y i l bey ydD i e t e n e Ad n d si it ss e ob d t y tC oob o J y p So ae h irJ nn o t h ( A P n (rm G e aeP s lt tr ih o ee n nyst ss o )t (n ) E .P ( .E .P D. u tD tou ntt )on) D TC Le wara va ot ez -h y n B d i e to f r f o Tr H J a noo L guc o oa svs e it n b a g M y b u by r Ey d l i e zJ r aJ. bM a eby. ty e h R M Ne Pd i ia km nim k ca uin a sn B ( ( aN S( kN pe e iw a r ni a s d t(V N e)i rac sit )ao dr )ia)
GAY MEN’S MYSTERY Stage Fright by Ellen Hart (Seal)
The Hidden Law by Michael Nava (HarperCollins) LESBIAN NONFICTION
F T L Oi h o nn vi ea r e l d f A Y oM o rt uo a n n t e ht m o eO e u n D Mtt e a a b s tb thy ey r ,bR S y it Tc e h wv Ga oe r r d a J n f oto S r h t en M v ts ie ho cnn ehs ao e F( nO l os n o ( ly S ( S tx bt.) . y M M La ar art rti rn i yn’s 's) ) Townsend (Alyson) P T P (Pe h r ar ae rs c ai t s dE it c iae gir nn mt gt h ) D EHe tos ei u rr nse e i t ye bd y it b e yJd e a Cb n ay n r oe l J Do Ga un iP v r e aN nu se s t ( aNl ne e dw ( A L l C .y h s Dao p in at n) e er ) Fortier
GAY MEN'S NONFICTION Shattered Applause by Robert A. Schanke (Southern Illinois U.)
Becoming a Man by Paul Monette (Harcourt Brace) Eleanor Roosevelt by Blanche Cook (Viking)
Homoerotic Photograph by Allen Ellenzweig (Columbia U.) LESBIAN POETRY
HM M ea a ak k ri i tn n lag g n dH T sr is o bt uo ybr ly e D abb ryy re lJ lE r o Yi hc an t eM sD a ' r E Rc m iu sis tl i o ( ( H E a ( .R Pr .p o u e Dr tC ule to d tl gl oi e nn ) )s) B ACl u ca clc t ok i rv d aS it nl ii n gp g tb oEy x c HT e ese rsr r Cy by o n W tL oo o ul rv rie s r At bo n yn d e Nr(C s aol no n ct yh (e E s Bip g oi hn ut t h iF l ie eMv re o r (u) Bn lt aa ci kn ) Sparrow)
GAY MEN’S POETRY Undersong by Audre Lorde (Norton)
The Man with the Night Sweats by Thom Gunn (Farrar Straus) Lady Sun, Lady Moon by Diane Stein (Crossing)
Ceremonies by Essex Hemphill (Plume) LESBIAN SCIENCE FICTION/FANTASY
S C Lt oor nuo gnn tg i Dn igP v l i a sMc ioe y n s b e l by f y T L Ri um uck d yyD l u Kbg y io k s e E l d( A w (Wm ar re d it t h e y F rss ie t l) d B l o( cB kla )ck Sparrow) R S Ape met au mkr i on n n g it t o eD r bI es yais m Nsb iy cb oy lJ a e Sa Gen v r e i frS ft ne ia tw h a P r a (t r D k e( lR (i F Rs ii ern yeg b ) r T anid de ))
GAY MEN’S SCIENCE FICTION/FANTASY Dreamships by Melissa Scott (TOR)
China Mountain Zhang by Maureen McHugh (TOR) Running Fiercely Toward a High Thin Sound by Judith Katz
Lost Souls by Poppy Z. Brite (Abyss/Delacourt) (Firebrand)
The Living One by Lewis Gannett (Random House) LESBIAN AND GAY SMALL PRESS BOOK AWARD
TC ar ly es G oe fn d te hr e b By o d T yh o Tm ha ies f T b. y T h Ao nm na es R(B ica ee n ) (Knopf) A He rP ee r til oo u Ds a rA ed v ea dn itt ea dg e b b yy A N ssa ot ta tli oe SB aa inrn t e y (G a( lN iee nw s ) Victoria)
GAY AND LESBIAN HUMOR To Kill a Cardinal by Michael Rumaker (Arthur Mann Kaye)
The Mostly Unfabulous Social Life of Ethan Green by Eric Omer Hot Chicken Wings by Jyl Lynn Felman (Aunt Lute)
(St. Martin’s) Memories That Smell Like Gasoline by David Wojnarowicz
Dykes to Watch Out For: The Sequel by Alison Bechdel (Firebrand) (Serpent's Tail)
March/April 1993 18 Volume 15 Number 6
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsTennessee Women’s Prison authorities bent
prison regulations to allow Beth Dingman, Claudia
Lamperti and Deborah Dudley of New Victoria Pub-
lishers and Frank Ritter, a newspaper reporter for
The Nashville Tennessean, to visit Lee Dortch and Ide-
lla Serna in the prison and to present them with
copies of their recently published book Locked Down:
A Woman's Life in Prison, The Story of Lee Dortch as told
to Idella Serna. Lee and Idella are both inmates at the
prison. The group was allowed to meet in the maxi-
mum security wing where Lee is currently being
held.
The New Victorians write: “Lee and Idella were
thrilled that the manuscript they had spent so many
years toiling over was actually in book form. We were
also excited to meet the women with whom we had
been corresponding and speaking on the phone for
t bh ooe k p a wst o u l1 d8 sm hoo wnt h os t. h eL re e l ee sx bp iar ne ss s e td h a tt h e v i oh leo npe c e t h isa t n ot this A = W oL mee a n D 'so r Lt ic fh e r ie nc e Piv ri in sog n a f rc oo mpy po uf b l iL so hc ek re d B eD thow n D: ingman
(photo by Claudia Lamperti)
the answer to their anger and frustrations. Idella told
us of her sympathy for all the women who come to March, continued from page 11.
prison, unable to read and write, victims of abuse expense) will be Saturday, April 24 at 5:30 (early
most of their lives. She spends much of her time enough so that you can get to whatever evening com-
tutoring those who wish to learn. mitments and pleasures await you) at a location that
“We feel that not only have we published a book will be disclosed only when you pre-register! (Which
which may help readers understand how the homo- is to say that we're still negotiating space as FBN goes
phobia of the 1950s and '60s could incite a woman to to press.)
violence, but we have personally gotten to know two Check-in and socializing time will run until 6:00.
very strong-willed and caring people, and helped to Dinner will be served at 6:15. There will be time dur-
give meaning to their lives. The book is, we believe, a ing dinner for short presentations, speeches, an-
pertinent and timely addition to the ‘family values’ nouncements, and yes, even jokes. If you have
debate.” something you want say, a topic you want to see on
Locked Down is the true and tragic story of one the agenda or other program ideas call Pokey Ander-
woman's response to the homophobia of American son at 713-521-3369. The proposed theme is “Healthy
society. Unable to fit the role of good girl, and expe- feminist bookstores and publishers: What do they
riencing confusion about her sexual identity, Lee look like? How do we get there from here? How do we
lashed out at those around her. At 16, Lee stole a car help cach other?" Because space is limited, the dinner
together with her girlfriend, and then took the rap and meeting will be limited to feminist bookstore staff,
so her lover could go free. What followed was a feminist publishers (and staff) and a maximum of one
series of attempted escapes, hostage holding of guest per person. (The contingent, of course, is open
prison officials, and other acts of violence, including to everyone who identifies as a feminist bookseller or
murder. publisher and all of their friends.)
19 March/April 1993
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
signs — and lots of them! We're planning a big identi-
Made From This Earth fying banner and with a sea of 50-100 smaller signs
American Women & Nature behind it that identify each bookstore and publisher
by Vera Norwood represented. And, of course, stores that have their own
“Puts ecofeminist critiques into tb ooa .nners and/or t-shirts will carry and/or wear them,
th his et mor i nca el w p e ar us tp he oc rt ii tv ye . ” and gives If you don't already have a banner or sign for your
—Annette Kolodny, author of s wt ao nr te to or bp eu b pli as rh ti n g o f c o tm hip s a n sy ea ( oo fr se iv ge nn s ) i f s e ny do u a d co o p a yn d o fy o yu our
The Lay of the Land and The Land logo (preferably black ink on white paper) with your
B 3e 9fo 6r e pH per ., 55 illus., $37.50 cloth, c Ri it cy h m an ond d s t Aa vte e ., t o H oP uo sk toe ny TA Xn d e 7r 7s 0o 9n 8, . c B/ eo s I un rk el i n tog s , i n 1 c8 lu4 d6 e
$17.95 paper
Gender and American Culture your color preference. All logos must arrive by April 8
for guaranteed delivery at the march.
American Dreams, Rural Realities There's no charge for the first sign if you're at-
Family Farms in Crisis tending the dinner. If you're not attending the dinner
b “y T hPe eg g y d eF f. iB nar il te it vt es word on the so- o $3r . i Lf o gy oo su w w ila ln t b e m bo lr oe w nt h a un p o on ne t o s i 1g 1n , X e n 1c 4l o s pe o sa t e rc h e bc ok ar dfor
cial: and economic dynamics of a gn od in gp , o l bit ui tc a l s- osi mgn eo ns et a k fe rs o m w il yl o ub re tp or wov ni d ie sd . a nIf d y thou ey a r we an n't t
the farm crisis in the 1980s.” to carry a sign for your store, send in your sign order.
— Gary P. Green, University We will (somehow) get all the signs to the meeting
of Georgia place for the contingent and your representatives will
332 pp., $45 cloth, $18. 95 paper be able to pick them up there.
Studies in Rural Culture We also need one (or several!) official photogra-
at bookstores or by toll-free order phers for the contingent. We'll need both black and
white photos and color slides to go out with press
The University of North Carolina Press releases (want to see ourselves in the Bookselling sec-
Chapel Hill tións of American Bookseller and Publishers Weekly?). 1f
Phone (800) 848-6224 you have suggestions for where else these press releases
Fax (800) 272-6817 should go — or if youʻre a publication and want to be
sure to get one — or better yet, if you can be our official
Feminist Bookstores and Publishers are Contin- photographer, call Carol or Kareri at FBN (415-626-1556).
gent #68 in the Women’s Organizations section of the If you aren't already on the mailing list for the
march. Naiad Press and Rising Tide have also regis- March on Washington, call 800-832-2889. Everyone
tered as contingents. All three contingents will be next who is marching is asked to send a $15 donation to help
to one another. with expenses. (If a million people march and pay up,
To reserve tickets for the dinner, send $40 for each that’s $15M, enough, as Pokey put it, to buy our own
ticket to FBN, 456 14th St. #6, San Francisco CA 94103. senator. Maybe we could start with a replacement for
Make checks payable to Feminist Bookstores Net- Jesse Helms?) Donations to the march are tax deduct-
work. Please include the names of the people coming, ible. Make checks payable to the March on Washington
if you want vegetarian or non-veg meals, and a SASE and send to PO Box 34607, Washington DC 20043.
for the tickets and the location of the dinner. The ticket If you need to change or confirm last minute
price includes dinner and a small amount for accesso- details during the weekend of the march call Pokey in
ries (sec “signs” below.) If you aren't coming to the the DC area at 703-524-4649.
dinner but want a sign and/or want to contribute to Remember: Dinner tickets must be reserved by
the`cost of the banner, see below.
A contingent is not a visible contingent without Athper i ls a m8. e L toigmose . f Soere syigonus t mheurset! be in Pokey’s hands `
20 Volume 15 Number 6
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Customs, continued from page 11. bookstores and that any seizures of titles going to
The Toronto Women’s Bookstore has, in three non-gay bookstores were “a mistake.” Pages response
separate seizures, lost copies of Bad Attitude, Hothead to the harassment has been to test Customs by inten-
Paisan #7, and Quim, a new lesbian sex mag from tionally ordering magazines (such as Bad Attitude) that
England. Prior to the TWB collective’s decision to are being seized in gay stores.
stock Bad Attitude, TWB had not been hassled by CensorStop, a coalition of anti-censorship people
Customs. who monitor Customs’ activities, notes that both of
Copies of Roz Warren's Weenie-Toons! Women Art- these seizures were purely punitive in nature and that
ists Mock Cocks, (published by Laugh Lines Press, see Customs is now doing seizures to control dissent,
FBN Vol. 15 #3, pg. 79), bound for Womansline Books rather than to control content. CensorStop spokespeo-
(London, Ontario) were “held-up” at customs for a ple noted that internal mail (mail posted and deliv-
week last October. Because the books were released, ered within Canada) addressed to CensorStop
Customs was not obligated to specify why the books activists has been opened by Canada Post and that
were detained. But Customs officials, during tele- both Customs and Canada Post are acting in concert
phone conversations while the book was being held, with political forces in the government to inhibit dis-
commented that the concern was “degradation of the sent.
nm oa l e s e np se en i s o” f — hu mpr oo rv .ing once and for all that men have The recent seizures have helped mainstream
media to understand that censorship in Canada is
whats oH eo vt eh re , a d i s # a7 ls, o w oh ni c h C u sp to or mtr sa ’ y bs a nn no e d s e x liu stal , a ac ct ci ov ri dt -y e asv e r “y a o n ge a' ys i is ss su ue e .” a n Id t it sh a ht o pit e d c a tn h a tn o i n l co rn eg ae ser d b me aw inr si tt rt ee an m off
min eg n ”t o u nF dB eN r’ s t hso e u r Bc ue ts l, e rf o dr e c b ise ii on ng (“ sese cx u ba el ll oy w )d . e g Hr oa td hi en ag d to mcdia attention will outrage enough Canadians that
#8 has been received in stores without incident. Quim c bh e a n inge its i a tin ed .Customs procedures and regulations will
was s e Iniz e d se ef mo ir n gp lyor t rr ea ly ai tn eg d a mn oa vl e sp ,e n Cc utr sta ot mion s . seized 27 Much of Customs’ new boldness and much of
titles bound for Le Dernier Mot (The Last Word) — Customs’ new attack on women’s and general book-
including two books by Andrea Dworkin, Woman Hat- stores seems to be based on the Butler Decision, a
ing and Pornography: Men Possessing Women, as well ruling that was affirmed by Canada’s Supreme Court.
as a number of magazines and other items addressed Butler holds that pornography, in addition to being
to Pages, a left-leaning alternative bookstore. defined by “community standards,” can also be de- `
The seizure at Le Dernier Mot occurred directly fined by whether the material can be construed to “do
after LDM published and began to sell transcripts of harm" (to women) and/or to be degrading. Laws
a telephone conversation that the government had bascd on similar premises have been passed in the
attempted to ban from publication. The telephone U.S. but have been, without exception, overturned in
conversation, needless to say, was very embarrassing the courts.
to the current government. The seizure of stock ad- The Butler decision has been used, as far as FBN
dressed to Pages occurred a week after Pages mounted has been able to determine, only to seize lesbian, gay,
a provocative and passionate anti-censorship window and feminist material, despite the fact that it is in-
display. tended to stop portrayal of eroticized violence against
Customs apparently didn’t take into account that women. To date it has been used against: Hothead
LDM counts many journalists among its best Paisan; Bad Attitude (almost immediately after the de-
customers. Major articles reporting the seizure were cision was handed down); and various gay men’s
published in The Montreal Gazette and other main- magazines on the grounds that anonymous sex is
stream media. All of the titles addressed to LDM were always degrading.
released after the news stories hit the media and an These actions underscore fears that the enforce-
apology of sorts, indicating that the seizure was a ment branches of governments will always direct
“mistake” has been issued by Customs. Customs offi- these laws against feminist erotica and lesbian and
cials, FBN was told, went so far as to tell Pages that gay materia], rather than against violent pornography
there was a distinction between gay and non-gay marketed to straight men. The seizure of even Andrea
21 March/April 1993
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Customs’ failure to seize books going to Little Sis-
ters while stepping up seizures at feminist and general
bookstores may be coincidence but most Customs
watchers assume that Customs is laying off Little Sisters
in an effort to weaken LS’s legal challenge to Customs.
In a last-minute move when Little Sisters’ case
was to go to trial last fall, CC moved that the case be
Whats a nice 3gifl likek dismissed. The Crown refused to dismiss the case but,
given the difficulty of rescheduling such a lengthy and
complex trial, the Crown effectively gained a year’s
delay as the trial has been (tentatively) rescheduled for
October 1993. The assumption is that if Customs seizes
few titles from Little Sisters during that time, but
increases seizures at other kinds of stores, they may be
able to weaken Little Sisters’ argument that Customs
is discriminating against gays and gay stores — a
strong argument in a country whose courts have re-
cently ruled that gays many not be discriminated
against in the military and that conjugal rights apply
to gay couples as well as straight couples.
Canada Customs has previously evaded Little
Sisters’ court challenges. After several years of sei-
zures of The Advocate, Little Sisters appealed the title
and spent $30,000 preparing for the trial, only to have
Customs drop The Advocate from the banned list the
Dworkin’s adamantly anti-pornography books con- week before the trial was to have begun. Customs’
firms the worst of those fears. (Dworkin co-authored move to dismiss the current case is seen as another
similar laws in the states with Catherine McKinnon.) evasive measure. Meanwhile Little Sisters believes
The Hayes decision, which is a first-level court that relief from Customs’ harassment will be obtained
decision that was handed down after the Butler deci- only by keeping constant pressure on Customs and by
sion, is being appealed by Glad Day. According to the creating more cases than Customs can weasel out of.
Hayes decision, casual gay sex is always degrading LS’s next challenge to Customs is built around
and is therefore obscene and portrayals thereof are to Customs’ seizures of OG (Oriental Guy) a gay men’s
be banned. Glad Day is arguing for a different stan- magazine that is published in Hong Kong in accor-
dard for gay material as it has a different audience and dance with Hong Kong’s very stringent guidelines.
that anal sex is normal in a gay context. GQ is understood to fall well within Canada’s guide-
Canada Customs supposedly takes direction lines but is being seized nonetheless.
from the court decisions. Is there any progress in all this? Possibly. There
Meanwhile, Customs has seized no (none, nada, are the various appeals in process, with more to come,
zero, zip) books addressed to Little Sisters and has and Customs’ agents reportedly advised Pages that
even been relatively restrained in seizing periodicals. (despite Customs’ denial that any kind of banned list
Little Sisters has, in the last few months, received titles exists) Customs will soon begin publishing a list of
that they have not been able to get through customs prohibited titles every three months and that individ-
for years (although many of these same titles have ual customs agents will no longer be empowered to
gone into mainstream bookstores with no problem make on-the-spot decisions to seize titles.
during the same period.) Titles received in recent The number of titles banned in Canada has grown
months include Hothead #7 (!), Bad Attitude, DPN , all frcom n onc d titl e i n o1986f to a re1por9ted 9 5,0020 t.it les byO the
of the John Preston titles, G.Q., and The Big Ad.
March/April 1993 22 Volume 15 Number 6
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Compiled by Carol Seajay bothered to come in before, a lot more straight people
who come in to offer and find solidarity. Some people
New Words has two wonderful new books com- are coming in as a result of the boycott: A cabby who
ing from two (ex-) staff members: Kate Rushin’s long- was quite uncomfortable but knew he needed a
awaited collection of poems The Black Back-Ups pink triangle bumpersticker to improve his busi-
(Firebrand) and Joni Seager’s Earth Follies: Coming to ness — and knew where to find one. A straight man
' Terms with the Global Environmental Crisis from wearing a very expensive suit who had just narrowly
Routledge Chapman Hall. I'd love to be at New Words averted being beaten up by some young men who
for those two book parties! I've waited so long for (mistakenly) thought he was a faggot and whose re-
Kate's book... Joni’s offers another version of women- sponse was that he was going to wear a pink trian-
naming-the-unnamable — and getting on with the gle every day, everywhere, until it wasn’t an issue any
problem solving. It was fun just opening the RCH more.
catalog to Jonis jean-jacketed portrait on the very first Kasha and The Book Garden especially want to
page. thank all the publishers and authors who have sent letters
Charis Books (Atlanta) has been collecting books or have called offering support during these times.
to send to feminist bookstores in India, Bangladesh
and Brazil and to the gay/lesbian library is Russia.
The books are packed and ready to go. Linda noted
t n bh oo oa tt k sl eI n s abd i i a ba n i t”a n hsd p a e r B c dia efn ri g c al ta t od io e ns ch s o ’ l s lm e c“ a tf d .e em tin hi est but Somegne | AS r S N M I ANN
Charis just had Sarah Shulman A SN
with her new book Empathy and her
video of the Lesbian Avengers. In Febru-
ary Charis hosted Johnetta Cole, the
president of Spelman College, reading
from Conversations. In March Charis
will sell books at the National Asso-
ciation for Women in Psychology >
meetings; Robin Morgan will be
the keynote speaker.
The word from The Book Gar- ;
den is that Amendment Two and
the Colorado boycott are having
their effects on both the store and SI E ENON NS NA.
the state. In the store she’s seeing a
broader customer base and a lot of NAA SZ A NAN y y
new customers: “feminist type” A v KT ~S N LA, Ne NWA E\ Ni
straight couples, the “rich and fa-
mous” in the gay set that never
Volume 15 Number 6 March/April 1993
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
The Mountains and Plains Booksellers Associa-
tion wouldn't come out against Amendment Two be-
fore it was passed. The day after it passed, The
Tattered Cover, Denver’s largest independent book-
store, was closed down by a bomb threat. The tele-
phone call announcing that a bomb had been planted
in the store was quite specific that it was “because you
hire so many fags and queers.” FBN hopes that Moun-
tains and Plains now sees Amendment Two as a book-
store issue, not “someone else's” issue.
Thirty new gay and/or anti-Amendment Two orga-
nizations have been organized since it passed. And, as a
result of the economic boycott, a few of the conservatives
who voted for Amendment Two are rethinking their
stand. It’s a slow process, but apparently a necessary one.
Crank Calls
Kasha Songer, from the Book Garden (Denver),
called with what I think is the best-ever strategy for
dealing with crank, threatening, and obscene phone
calls (of which they've had many, during and since the
Amendment Two campaign). “Basically, they want a
response,” Kasha says. “So we don't give them any.
Hanging up on them is a response so we don't give
them that satisfaction. Instead we set the phone down
very gently. Then we get very quiet. The guy rants on
for awhile, but inevitably, he realizes that he’s not
getting any response at all. After a while you can hear
them going ‘Hello? Hello? Is anyone there?’ And of
course there’s no answer. When they get that no one's
paying any attention to them they hang up. Then we
all laugh long and loud. It works every time. And we
end up feeling solid and powerful and they feel small
and silly. It’s only fair.”
In many respects the post-election coverage and “Did the Book Garden get bomb threats the day
consciousness raising (and the boycott) are being far after Amendment Two passed?” I asked Kasha.
more effective than the pre-election campaigning. Pre- “I don't know,” she replied. “We got a lot of crank
election, Kasha reports selling about 5 pink triangle calls that day but we didn’t listen to any of them.”
buttons a week. Post election, 500 a week. Now, still
about 50 a week. Straight people who have been mis- K yx
t “a gk ee tn i tf ”o r t hb ae ti n ig t ’s g a ny o t a n Od K h fa ov re ab ne yen o n eb e a tt oe n b eu p b e as tu ed nd e n ul py for Milestones
being gay. (Gay bashing is up by as much as 80% in Full Circle Books (Albuquerque) and Lammas
some parts of Colorado since Amendment Two was (Washington DC) both celebrate 20th anniversaries
introduced. It’s “open season” not only on lesbians this year. Both will celebrate throughout the year.
and gay men, but also on people who hire us and We'll cover the events as we hear about them!
people who look like lesbians or gay men — or like Olivia Records, the once irrepressible woman's
what the batterers think gay people look like...) record company that now runs lesbian vacation
March/April 1993 24 Volume 15 Number 6
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
cruises, turns 20 this year. Celebrations include a 20th ing for Rising Tide Press. The staff at Womankind
anniversary concert in San Francisco, a dance party Books and Rising Tide Press will miss Marie. It is
co-hosted by Bay Area Career Women, and a float in woman like her who make feminist bookstores and
the San Francisco Gay Pride Parade. Prices range from publishers what they are today.”
$15 for the t-shirt, to $25, $35, and $75 for the concert,
and $40 for the dance. Kinda makes you miss the old Finances
sliding-scale days.... Once again, financial reports are all over the
place. Where the recession is hitting hardest and last-
ing longest, it’s definitely still dragging on sales. New
stores (feminist or stores with strong lesbian and fem-
Herland Sister Resources (Oklahoma City) met inist sections) opening in the same community also
with their mortgage holder to pay off their $31,000 have an impact. A second store opening in a commu-
balloon payment on January 5. Over $20,000 was do- nity that’s feeling the recession is probably not a good
nated to the building fund and a community member idea for either the new store or the original store.
was able to loan Herland the balance needed to make Patty Callaghan (Brigit Books, St. Petersburg)
the payment. By August $7,000 had been donated. In writes, “My sales were up 25% in 1992 over 1991 so
the last four months $13,000 was raised — most of it I'm happy.”
in $200 pledges. “When the Herland Board decided Inklings in Houston reports that all of their
five years ago that it was time Herland had a place of customers seemed to do their shopping in the last six
our own where no landlord could say what we could days before Christmas and that many shoppers com-
or couldn't do, it was a difficult and somewhat intim- mented on how many new things had been added to
idating decision. When the only financing available the inventory since the last time they had come in.
had a large final balloon payment, we had doubts Sales were up at Inkings for the fourth year in a row and
about our ability to meet that payment. However, with the store showed a profit for the second year in a row.
faith in our community’s support for Herland, the Mary Ellen Kavanaugh (My Sisters’ Words, Syra-
building was purchased. Today it is apparent that cuse) Writes, “Our sales for ‘92 were so impressive that
faith was justified. The many women of Herland and I want to share the information with others who
o cou nr t rm iba ule t io f nr si ,e n ld ars g eh a v ane d r a sl mlie ad ll , t ho a vt eh e c oc mha el l e fn rg oe m. T ah lle would appreciate it. After five years, sales finally
over Oklahoma and around the United States making broke S100 000 ae came in at $112,000) for an in-
it clear that Herland is important to many people. The
balloon payment which once seemed impossible will
be paid.” (From the Herland Voice.)
Janice McAlpine and Donna Vittorio have de-
cided to close Mrs. Dalloway’s (Kingston, Ontario). inches high on Red Ho
Their decision was a result of a combination of having one day, the shelf the
to work harder for smaller returns in the current econ- and all the goddesses ł many p eces. This
omy and a persistent desire, after six years of book- fall, a friend who is good with puzzles sat down
selling, to pursue other dreams. Another feminist and put them all back together. Then we covered
bookstore is expected to open in Kingston soon (see their glue seams with a tube of glitter decorations |
They Went That-A-Way), but their community will to make the goddesses more festive. We then cut
certainly miss their unique and wonderful presence. the price and advertised the pieces as “Differently
Lee Boojamra (Woman Kind, Huntington Station, Abled Goddesses” who serve as the special pro-
NY) writes, “We are sad to report that a former staff tectresses of those of us who have lived through
member and long-time supporter and friend, Marie some of life's bumps and tumbles. They sold like
Harrison, died November 19th. Marie was a disabled hotcakes! Maybe we should break things more
woman who, after she could no longer drive to work, often. — Audrey J. May/Meristem
continued to work from her home editing and proof- Memphis, TN O
25 March/April 1993
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
whopping 51%. “We decided we could kick butt and
we did it! We revamped the newsletter. We mail it out
ited rave e for a potyet-published out twice a year as a teaser and we make it so good
agh some grace of fate, I was sent a that our customers come into the store the rest of the
Sacred Thing, Starhawk’s new time to get it. We changed our advertising. We got
more playful and less tasteful. Our ads are more ‘out
tease dE v ebny mBaonrtea,m w ein n Jeeudn e t h(i$s2 0 b ocolk).. and proud.’ They're feisty and they make people
it, I could have hand laugh. People look for our ads because they want the
laugh. We're doing a lot more book signings. We used
to do only the A-list authors. Now we're telling people
who want to read but might not draw a big audience
se A Atwood, the full- ‘If you'll risk it, so will we’ and it’s paying off. Our
rge Tin and the windows are great and we spend a lot of time making
them interest-grabbing. We love sidelines. A third of
our sales are in sidelines. A couple of us stayed three
extra hours to spiff up the jewelry case for Valentine's
day. Sidelines are an easy way to play with the mood
and atmosphere in the store.”
crease of 31%. That along with seeing the store listed To expand selling space, The Book Garden is
in the fabulous Ms article helped me to recognize my moving the office into an apartment that’s 20 feet from
store as a viable retail business.” the bookstore.
Full Circle (Albuquerque) reports that sales were “We'rejust getting ready to grow!” Kasha concludes.
up 8-9% for the year despite a consistent 5-7% drop in A
their daily sales figures since the day a new superstore Ku
o anp den e 2d 5 % i n o ft fh e i or n p ta rr at d eo f p a t po ew rbn a. c k(" s 2 0 i% s mof igf h to yn th ea mrd pc to inv gers Promotion
in these times, even for our most loyal customers.") Bookwoman (Austin, TX) continues to take the
Full Circle expects the drop to hold for the first six prize for outrageous promo events designed to appeal
months and then to trail off as the opening (inflated) to the punk set. The most recent is Virgin Day. Post-
stock level at the superstore settles down a bit and cards invited “you and yours” to a special Virgin Day
customers realize that the selection that was available reception on December 8 (is that the Feast of the Im-
initially isn't being maintained. “In the thinking of maculate Conception or is my Catholic childhood mis-
superstores, we're more of a boutique. We're not the education failing me?) from 5-8pm. “Many gifts of the
stores they're out to complete with; it’s the general
independents they're after.”
Amazon (Minneapolis) reports that sales for the
year were excellent — up 10% beyond projections for a
total of 15% over 1991. This despite a new Borders store
in their neighborhood. “Borders took over the old
Odegards store and then did a mega expansion. It's
affecting the other chain stores, but doesn’t seem to be
pulling customers away from us. It seems to be mostly
people who used to shop at Odegards and it’s drawing
people from the other chain stores — the ones that aren't
as good or as well stocked,” is the word from Amazon.
Best news last? Why not? The Book Garden (Den-
ver) reports “A fine year.” Although Christmas sales
were “only” up 34%, sales for the year were up a
March/April 1993 26 Volume 15 Number 6
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
virginal and angelic kind available for your delecta-
tion including Virgin of Guadalupe T-shirts and pen-
dants, Madonna buttons, angel cards, goddess books, Now in Paperback!
pocket altars and much much more. Worship Her at
Bookwoman.”
= of Science
My Sisters’ Words (Syracuse, NY) runs an annual 3. Righting
January Progressive Sale to dispose of damaged sz | the Record
books, mis-shipments, mistakes, would-be returns %1 Edited by G. Kass-Simon
and other labor-intensive returns. Everything on the 5 and Patricia Farnes
table is 20% off the first week in January, 40% off the “Women of Science presents ample evidence of the important
second week, 60% off the third week, and 80% off the scientific contributions made by women. Yet this book is more
last week. “It’s a gamble of sorts, but it is rather fun.” than a reference—it is delightful and inspiring reading.”
Customers are invited to stop in “— if only to watch —Association for Women in Science Magazine
people make decisions about whether to ‘buy now’ or “ . . . fascinating. . . an illuminating collection of biographies
n‘w ewait sl e f tto er r , a b b oe ot kt mer a r kd se ,a l . s” p eI cn i a la d od ri dti eo rn in gt o s eo rf vf ie cr ei ,n g w isa h free o Wf o mm ea nn ’y s Ar se sm oca ir ak ta iob nle women.” —Journal of American Medical
l mis ut ns, i t yg i f it n f c oe rr mti af ti ic oa nt e s c, e nc tr ee rd ,i t M c ya r d S is p tea ry sm ’ e Wnt os r, d sa n nd o wa com- cT o orh n e s c t h iw to uo sm te i o e t nn o a l lw i ygh n o oos rre e iw nso tt er e lrk le e o ci t ts y u apc le le s yl e b t ur h na at ste u d ip t a oh br le t er r e a y f oew rde r cwe a o r n m eeo e rt n s a iw a nsa r te h eof
offers parking (!) and mail order services. sciences. The contributors to this collection are scientists who
I don't know if Inklings did anything to plant it, telt the necessity of righting the record—discovering and
but the Houston Chronicle did a nice story on lesbian recovering the contributions
detective stories that ran on the front page of the women have made to
Lifestyle and Entertainment section the last Wednes- tt:h he edUiervNe l opfImVieenEltd R so.fS IIN|TDIYANA
day in December. It featured a color photo of Seal
cP ur se ts os m’ eH ra sl ”lo w ine td o M thu er d e br o o kan std o r b e.rought “a nice handful of mA EISIIOS 601 N. M Bolrootmoinng t o8nt, . IN P 4R74] 04 ESS
Inklings is also co-sponsoring a women’s film Orders: 1-800-842-6796
festival that celebrates the 20th anniversary of Women
Make Movies.
As I'm typing this, Inkling’s is in the midst of one poster and t-shirt giveaway. Moviegoers sign up for
of its ever-popular “Scratch and Dent” sales. Used and the drawing at the theatre when they see the move,
“dented” books sell for half price. Also, people bring and the drawing will be held at Paradigm at the end
in their used books — lesbian or gay, feminist, or other of the run. There is, of course, a sign that tells partici-
“Inklings-type topics” and trade them. Two books are pants that they can shop for their own Claire items at
worth one of similar value in exchange. This environ- Paradigm. Free posters with $50 purchase while sup-
mentally-friendly event happens in the space above plies last!
Inklings. In the past, Inklings has donated a portion of How to bring in the art crowd? Paradigm is spon-
Scratch & Dent proceeds to tree-planting projects and soring the First Annual Women’s Juried Art Exhibition
to area women’s centers and gay service groups. This in honor of Women’s History Month. Applications avail-
time Inklings will send part of the proceeds to help able at Paradigm and a reception for jurors (during
AWE, the first women’s expedition tò attempt to cross which the final selections will be made) at — where else?
Antarctica. — Paradigm, of course. Want to increase your Friday
Claire of the Moon is coming to town. In what looks night trade? Flying Solo, a Lesbian Singles Social
like a brilliant scheme to reach new customers, Para- Group, meets at Paradigm every Friday from 7:00 -
digm (San Diego) is sponsoring a Claire CD, cassette, 8:30.... How to appreciate and keep volunteers? Para-
27 March/April 1993
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
In the |
Dead Cars of Dead Cars f Aicti Pon RIL M Afi Rcti Con H
ISBN: 0-939416-66-2
by Sybil Claiborne EEs # $9.95 paper $9.95 paper
In the Garden of Dead Cars is a post-AIDS novel
set in the not-so-distant future. A plague has rav- Hardly your usual detective story, Only Lawyers
aged the world, leaving the survivors terrified of Dancing tells the tale of two women friends and
human contact. New York has become a third their obsessive relationship to crime: Anne Stevens,
world city, beset by scarcities of every kind, a a policeman's daughter who abandons her career as
place of burnt-out buildings, abandoned streets a psychoanalyst to become a criminal attorney, and
and junk yards. Sex is a capital crime. Frances smith, lesbian, photographer, café artist,
and daughter of a crime boss.
The novel centers around a feminist physician
who longs for the past, and her daughter, Emma, "This novel of crime, punishment and postcards has
who dreams of real butter and rebuilt Subarus intriguing style and substance."
and is sick of hearing about life before the — Vogue
plague... In the Garden of Dead Cars is about the
impulse to love, the triumph of sensuality over
fear w h ouic sh ly t a ck re ims inEm al m aa n d o n f i la l e djo u wrn ite hy sb elo ft -h d i sd ca on vg ee rr y- . CLEIS PRESS DISTRIBUTED BY INBOOK
digm runs a monthly “volunteer corner” in the news- reception to benefit “Paradigm Women’s Projects.”
letter that recognizes and describes the work of one of Steinem will be the guest of honor. Food will be ca-
the bookstore’s volunteers. tered, tickets are $50.
February was Naiad month at Sons & Daughters
in Grand Rapids and Southfield (Detroit). Sons &
Daughters put all 184 Naiad titles on sale. 20% off 1-4
books, 25% off for customers buying 5 or more. In Mormon feminism and Mormon women’s femi-
addition, customers with purchases over $50 received nist heritage were the themes of an evening of read-
a free copy of Lesbian Nuns or Lesbian Queries. The ings at A Woman's Place Bookstore in Salt Lake City.
promotion honored Naiad’s 20th anniversary and was The program featured Kathy Evans, the winner of the
launched with a Robbi Sommers (woman only) per- Best Poetry Award by the Association for Mormon
formance and book signing at each store. Supporting Letters, whose book Imagination Comes to Breakfast,
materials included a 4 page (11x17, folded in half) flier reflects her Mormon background, her feminist sensi-
that lists all of Naiads titles (taken from Naiad promo- bilities, and a definite erotic sensibility. Her reading
tion fliers), announced the sale terms, included mail was followed by Maxine Hanks and two contributors
order and telephone ordering forms and announced to Hank's anthology Women and Authority: Re-emerg-
the booksignings and performances on the front. How ing Mormon Feminism, a book that celebrates the long-
did they afford to give away free books? See Naiad’s lost feminism of Mormon women from the 1870s
free books offer on going-out-of-print titles in this through the 1920s. Both books were published by
issue's Announcements column. Signature Books.
In addition to the Adams Avenue Women’s Fair
that Paradigm created around their Gloria Steinem Reminder: help wanted and “want to exchange jobs”
reading mentioned in last issue's News from the Book- ads run at no-charge in FBN’s classified section. See “FBN
stores column, Paradigm will also hold a fundraising Production Schedule” for due dates. O
March/April 1993 28 Volume 15 Number 6
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Bookstore Protile:
— Text
By Elda Silva Textures’ shelves are stocked with books by, for
San Antonio Light and about women including general fiction, lesbian
literature, multicultural literature, mystery novels,
“I was driving home in my Jeep one day and I health books, self-help books and cook books.
heard a voice that said, ‘Build it and they will come,” “My dad said, ‘Why aren't you carrying books for
deadpans Martha Cabrera, sole owner and employee men?’ Men have been represented for years and years.
of Textures, the new woman’s bookstore in The Yard It’s time to give women an advantage. He said, That’s
strip center on McCullough. sexist.” I said, ‘Yeah, it is” the 33-year-old Cabrera
The small, intimate store is the first woman’s says, laughing.
bookstore in San Antonio since the non-profit, volun- It’s also a business strategy. Cabrera says she is
teer-run Las Mujeres closed its doors more than a reaching out to a market underserved by chain and
decade ago. Until Textures opened December 5, general bookstores. A large chunk of the inventory is
women’s bookstore aficionados had to make the trek dedicated to books by small presses that aren't readily
to Austin’s BookWoman. available in chain bookstores.
March/April 1993
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
The word “safe” comes up again in an interview
with a former Las Mujeres volunteer.
Women, Race, “Safe in the sense that hopefully there's not going
to be any gay-bashing,” she explained. “You're not
going to be harassed. You're accepted for who you
and Ethnicity are...Biases are left outside,” she says. “It should be a
A BIBLIOGRAPHY place Cto a b rm ere ae t i sa n ad l r eb ae d y w i ct uh l t if vr ai te in nd gs . ” a comfortable atmo-
sphere. The store, scented in cinnamon, bayberry and
vanilla for the holidays, is flooded with natural light
M 2,400 annotated citations, both print and from tall, arched windows. Chairs are placed around
audiovisual materials. the room for patrons to review books at their leisure.
Cabrera envisions expanding to include a place
M Covers Black, Latina, Asian-Pacific, Ameri- where patrons can sit, drink coffee and talk.
can Indian, Jewish, and Euro-American women. Men are welcomed in the store. But Cabrera
wants Textures to be a place especially for women to
B Fully indexed by subject. meet and socialize.
The store is a leap of faith on Cabrera’s part.
$ o7 f. 0 0 W ip scr oe np sa ii nd; - M c ah de ic sk on .p a Wya ib scle o n st io n U rn ei sv ide er nsi tt sy She cleaned out her savings, took out two loans
add 5% tax. and refinanced her Jeep for capital to open the store.
She is interested in getting investors to give the store
a better shot at success.
Women's Studies Librarian Friends warned Cabrera she was taking a big
430 Memorial Library risk. San Antonio has a reputation for not having a
728 State St., Madison, WI 53706 large enough literary population or the money to sup-
port an independent bookstore. Cabrera takes excep-
tion to the former. She points out there are five colleges
Linda Pritchard, an American history professor and three junior colleges here.
specializing in women’s history, says there is a need Cabrera, who has a masters degree in environ-
and market for women’s books. mental science from UTSA, got the idea for the store
“The diversity of women’s experience is not rep- in September after a fruitless search for a job in her
resented in mainstream bookstores,” says Pritchard. degree area. Three months later she opened Textures
“There's been an explosion of writing on women and for business.
women of color that forms the backbone of many Though Cabrera jokes about it, opening Textures
college courses. A women’s bookstore brings together was something of a mission for her.
those resources.” “There wasn't one in the city. (I thought) You
Cabrera expects lesbian literature in particular to know what this town needs?’ The idea just took over.
be her “bread and butter.” Though chains like Bookstop Things just started falling into place.”
stock lesbian and gay literature, the selection is still
l ui tm orit se d t. o C su tr or ce kn t mly o, r eC a b mr ae ir na s t ris e a mals o f ew mo ar lek i n ag u t hw oi rt sh a d s i s wtr ei lb l.- Y
A bona fide book junkie who has logged count-
less hours in bookstores — sometimes standing in X a, xS fS
aisles until her feet fell asleep — Cabrera believes
bookstores have “socially redeeming value.”
“It has the potential of being the hub of the com- G
munity,” Cabrera says. “It should be a safe place for A 4
women to talk.” From Celebrating Women’s Spirituality 1993, Crossing.
March/April 1993 30 Volume 15 Number 6
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Enterprising Women
LONDON: The 1992 Women in Publishing Conference handling money and should set about learning how
took place on Saturday, October 24 in London. A won- to do so. Aboveall, the message was to have fun, don’t
derful success, the conference brought together a host of despair, be flexible, and give yourself time to step back
women from all aspects of publishing to talk about from worry and commitment. At the end of the day
setting up book-related businesses. The panelists offered market forces will prevail, but have confidence in
practical information and advice, good news and bad, your own ideas. — Brenda Walker
and much inspiration to the 80-odd attendees. The fol-
lowing are excerpts from two of the sessions.
Independent Presses and Publishers
Five speakers in the Independent Presses and
Publishers session described their tentative begin-
nings, obstacles and current successes. Avis Lewallen
from Scarlet Press spoke on behalf of a small group of
women who set out to break new ground iñ publish-
ing. A great deal of their success, she reported, derived
from the sale of rights at the Frankfurt Book Fair. They
also received a 50% discount on their stand through
the Department of Trade and Indústry.
The final speaker was Roisin Conroy from Attic
Press in Ireland. Attic employs six women full-time,
preferring a specialist staff to a co-operative. The latter
she views as de-skilling and an opportunity to escape
from financial responsibility. She emphasised the im-
portance of having a controlling interest in your own
company, and where possible, ensuring that other Feminist business practice was the stimulating
shareholders share your political ethos. Discussing subject of the last session of a hectic day. Paula Kahn,
major changes in the publishing world she stressed Chief Exccutive of the Longman Group, was the in-
the need to keep up with modern technology. vited speaker. She began by acknowledging the diffi-
The general feeling from the speakers was that culty of defining feminist business practice.
the creative freedom of running your own company She offered four feminist concepts for consider-
was worth the initial frustrations and loneliness. They ation in discussion of the subject:
thought it worthwhile to seek advice from other 1. “The personal is political”; in other words an
women in the profession and to keep lists and names individual's actions have political impact.
of editors up to date. Women should not be afraid of 2. A feminist act requires feminist means.
31 March/April 1993
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
3. Taking feminist decisions is unpopular because it areas for monitoring were contract drafting and the
disturbs the status quo and, lastly, male to female ratio of freelancers and authors.
4. Every issue is a gender issue. How does the practice of feminism differ from
Any analysis of feminism requires a consider- other systems? Are women’s houses more fa-
ation of gender; this delegate would have liked to vourable to women?
have heard more of her views on this point.
She posed four questions before opening the dis- In opposition to the usual acquisitiveness of busi-
cussion to the floor. In an attempt to shape a very ness Roisen Conroy expressed her philosophy as
wide-ranging debate I shall report the issues in rela- “profit making not profit taking.” She believes in in-
tion to these questions. vesting profits back into the business. She also high-
lighted the pressure on feminist businesswomen to
appear to satisfy “politically correct” ideals.
“It doesn’t pay to be meek,” said Common to all business practices is company
feminist Paula Kahn. “I was loud culture which some suggested should embrace all
staff and be less hierarchical — not everyone can or
and got promoted.” wants to be a director! It was argued that a significant
number of women in senior positions in a company
Is there a difference between good business m ari eg h ft e m b ir ni in sg ts a ab no du t t hch osa en g we. h oH o aw re ev e or f, t en no t f ea al rl w foo rm e tn heir
practice and feminist business practice?
jobs. It might also be that feminist practice is limited
No consensus was reached on what constituted in its power to bring about radical change.
feminist business practice. Some argued that the term On a personal note Paula Kahn explained her
was anachronistic and applied only to white middle own success despite the perceived drawback of being
class women. It was agreed that women were limited a feminist. “It doesn’t pay to be meek,” she said. “I was
in discussion of business practice, good or bad, be- loud and got promoted.” — Oonagh O'Farrell
cause they were poorly trained in this regard. Training
and personnel management were undervalued func-
tions within present business practice.
What do you think about women working out-
side the main company organisation who do
not have the full employee benefits?
Freelancers wanted to be considered integral to Ùn
the publishing business. There was a growing de-
mand and part-time work was needed. One proposal
w fla es x i bf lo er p a a r tp -e tr im ma en e wn ot r kc o n bt ur ta c wt i tf ho r t hf er e e bl ea nn ec fer its s a oll fo w fi un lg l- publish,
time employment. Roisin Conroy voiced Attic’s oppo-
sition to voluntary work. She felt it was fundamental
for a business to make a profit and create jobs.
How do we monitor feminist business practice?
At Longman, Paula said, they were only at the e..
first stage of feminist business practice. In her role she — Excerpted from Wiplash, the WIP newsletter.
looks at work patterns in her organisation which can To join WIP send a cheque (£ sterling cheques only) or
be changed. For example, Longman is currently intro- International Money Order for £20 (includes overseas
ducing a new software system which can track postage) made out to Women in Publishing to: Mem-
people's careers and training through the company bership Secretary, Women in Publishing, c/o 12 Dyott
thus allowing analysis of individual progress. Other St., London WC1A 1DG, UK. O
March/April 1993 32 Volume 15 Number 6
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Publishers’ Column:
g
By Ruth Gundle ABA, which is much like selling anything at any trade
Eighth Mountain Press show, whether it’s shocs or plumbing supplies (I be-
lieve Black Sparrow, for example, has consistently
I've begun to seriously doubt that the ABA is refused to participate). Some are large presses that
cost-effective for small presses. After proposing this simply think it’s too expensive (St. Martin's refused to
topic to Carol last summer (in the wake of deciding participate one ycar citing the ridiculous cost which
not to exhibit at the ABA this year) Eighth Mountain they estimated to be about $40,000 if I remember
joined Consortium Book Sales and Distribution in the correctly). So each year as I throw myself into the
fall and our ABA options changed. Now Consortium whirlwind of preparing for it, doing it and recovering
will be displaying our books and I will be attending from it, I have asked myself if it really made sense for
(but without a booth). Although this is a wonderful a small publisher like Eighth Mountain.
solution for us — it relieved us of the choice between
staffing a booth and not being there at all — I felt that
it made me a less credible ABA-basher. Carol, how-
ever, persuaded me to share my thinking with FBN
readers in the hopes that it will spur an interesting ? BA 2?
discussion of the issues.
I was told by many when I started out that “you Everyone agrees that the ABA is designed for the
have to be at the ABA or no one will know you exist” really big publishers. It’s very expensive (when you
and once you're existence is known that “you have to consider the cost of booth(s), displays, drayage, air-
be at the ABA or folks will forget about you.” I've fare, lodging, meals, salary for staff, shipping of dis-
exhibited at three consecutive ABAs now, and all of play materials, books and catalogs, rental of booth
them have been fascinating and beneficial in many furniture, etc.). It’s expensive even if done on a very
ways (even fun at times, although exhausting) but I modest scale, which is how I would characterize the
wonder if the cost is worth it and if there might be some feminist and other small press displays. (My rough
better, saner, way to achieve at least some of the benefits. estimate for Miami — for onc booth staffed by two
Although the prevalent view is definitely that a women flying cross-country and sharing a hotel room
publisher must be there, not all presses subscribe to and including the items mentioned above — is $7,000
this “keeping up appearances” point of view. Some to $8,000.)
are small presses that philosophically disagree with While doing things on a modest scale is fine for
the method of selling books which permeates the many of our undertakings, at the ABA it’s hard to
33 March/April 1993
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
compete with the superglitz of the major publishers when it’s not necessary? Feminist booksellers will be
with their exact replicas of the Sistine Chapel, cush- looking for feminist and multi-cultural books from
ion-soft carpeting and couches, champagne, super- other small presses and even large ones that may not
star autographings and mega-buck back-lit displays. be so easy to find out about.
This overshadowing is nowhere as apparent as at the
ABA. We can produce books that are as good if not What percentage
better and as handsome if not more so; we can get of the ABA sales would
publicity at high levels; we can have sales reps pres-
ent our books to stores nationwide. But at the ABA — have happened anyway?
as with anything that requires more money than in-
genuity — we are at a distinct disadvantage. We can't I've noticed also that buying patterns have
afford (and perhaps wouldn't choose to spend any- changed in the last few years. Probably for very good
way) $35,000 to $100,000 to grab the attention of the reasons, booksellers are buying much more cautiously
25,000 to 40,000 attendees. The dramatic increase in (i.e. smaller quantities and then re-ordering more
booth fees — as Sasha Alyson’s excellent letter to the often) even though most publishers offer special ABA
ABA points out — along with the revelation last year deals. This reduces the income a publisher can realize
that the American Bookseller's Association is fi- to offset the costs. But perhaps a more important
nanced primarily by the booth fees from the ABA question is this: what percentage of those sales would
trade show, made this high cost a bit hard for us small not have happened but for the ABA exhibit? I suspect
fry to swallow. it is fairly small.
I'm not saying that no one pays attention to the
feminist press displays (certainly there is a hard core Alternatives to Exhibiting
of folks who seek out the feminist press row and there Well, what are the alternatives? I see the purpose
are sundry others who happen to walk down it and of the ABA as two-fold: in the short term, to sell the
are drawn to something), or that the only way to new titles and encourage interest in backlist titles; in
attract attention for new books at the ABA is to havea long term, to maintain important relationships with
Madison Avenue display (quality publishers will al- booksellers, other publishers, reviewers, distributors,
ways attract their admirers). And, I will admit, I have etc. Here are some ideas about how to achieve those
made some great connections that I wouldn't other- goals in new ways.
wise have made. But I think the issue deserves to be 1. Convince the ABA to allow small presses to
looked at honestly. take a whole aisle in the small press section (where
you can now reserve only two booths, I believe) and
have “Feminist Row” there. I've suggested this to
other publishers and mostly I've gotten the response
that it’s important to be on the main floor with the
“big boys.” The reasons given for this are that there
is more traffic there and we are treated more seri-
ously there. I'm not convinced on either of these
Many feminist booksellers spend a lot of time in points. My first year at the ABA (Las Vegas) I exhib-
the feminist row because it’s a friendly and feminist ited in the small press section and there was more
environment in the midst of merchandising mania. traffic there than there has ever been in the two years
But I've heard many say that they feel that they must I've been on “Feminist Row” in the main section.
give priority to other arcas since they know they won’t Also, there was a wider spectrum of booksellers who
miss any of the feminist press books (thanks largely to stopped to look at the books. All the really good
FBN, and of course press catalog mailings, independent booksellers combed the small press
Womensource, and Bookpcople’s “Women’s Studies” section for “finds” and certainly if the entire feminist
catalog sections). This is not a criticism. It makes per- press section was there, as well as other rows of
fect sense to me. Why trudge down on extra aisle specialty small presses, it would attract attention.
March/April 1993 34 Volume 15 Number 6
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
The small press section is significantly cheaper: last a few months. And yet, at last year’s ABA, despite a
year it was about $450 per booth (which included giveaway that ranked with the best at the show — a
carpet, a table and chair) as compared with the main trip for two to Costa Rica which included airfare as
floor booths that were close to $2,000 (and carpet and well as accommodation — we took only a small num-
furniture rental are extra).
ber of orders. It is clear to me that the phenomenal
2. Have a joint exhibit using, say, four booths. success of the book is only very dimly related to
Give out catalog packets that contain all the catalogs, ABA-related exposure. (On the other hand, it was
have only one person per publisher staffing it at any there that Helaine Harris of Daedalus saw the book
one time. This would have to be a good-looking booth and snapped it up for their fall and winter catalog and
with professional lighting, etc., and would have pos- so far they have bought 800 non-returnable.) So it’s not
dsi ob ui bli lt ei e s b o f oo tr h s a t dt or na 'c tt i n hg av ea .t t Ie tn t wio on u l dt h a at ls o s i n bg e le m o ur c h even c mu ot n ea yn d I d pr uie td . in S tt oi l l t, h eI h Aa Bv Ae a i n ts oe n s ge e t tt ih na gt pif u b I l i ch ita yd fp ou rt tt hh ee
cheaper. The need for each press to maintain a “high book (which would have included contacting Hel-
profile” — which in fact is what the ABA is about at aine), I would have reaped far more for the money.
rock bottom — would not have to be sacrificed. How- 2 ?
ever, it would take some cooperative planning which
wt ia tk h.es time, which is always hard for us to come up N
3. Have a joint exhibit that is conceived mainly as
a place for seeing people and renewing relationships
rather than selling books on the spot. This would
mean having an area with couches, tables, etc. where 4. Skip it altogether. Use the money saved on
publishers could talk with booksellers, reviewers, etc. telemarketing to stores, good-looking four-color mail-
There is no other place that so many publishing busi- ings to stores, author tours, publicity campaigns, etc.
ness folks gather, and the personal connections forged We feminist publishers who are running real busi-
through contact at the ABA are hard to replace with nesses must operate in a world that is not of our cre-
any alternative method of doing business. I imagine ation. That means that we must do some things just
this also as a four booth area, with publishers sharing because “that’s what's done.” But clearly there is a lot
back and side wall display space. of room to operate differently than the big fellas or
none of us would exist. We have discovered that we
If I had put the money I put into will be taken seriously if we publish quality work in a
the ABA into getting publicity for professional manner. But the more successful we are,
the more tempting it is to do things as the big boys do
the book, I would have reaped them. In the case of the ABA I think it’s worth at least
far more for the money. considering whether it’s wise to play the boys’ game
(but without their budgets) just because it's there to do.
The money saved in not having one's own booth, In private discussions about this I've had re-
extra staff, etc. could be used in selling books in a more sponses everywhere from “for any publisher to ignore
cost effective way. I now have a phenomenally fast- the ABA is tantamount to jumping off the Empire State
selling book on my hands, A Journey of One's Own: Building” to “I think you're on to something.” What
Uncommon Advice for the Independent Woman Traveler do you think? What do publishers think about the
by Thalia Zepatos. I've found that getting publicity time, money and energy that gocs into the ABA? How
(feature stories in major dailies, major reviews, radio important is it to booksellers to have the feminist
and TV interviews, readings at major independent presses exhibit? I hope lots of you will write to FBN
booksellers and travel bookstores as well as feminist with your responses and idcas.
bookstores, etc.) has been easy because the book has ° e °
as nuc dh t ha e yst r lo on og k a lp ikp ee a l t. h eW y'e l l d bid e ga o nf eir s wt i tp hr ii nn t i tn hg e o spf a c1 e0 ,0 of00 the Edm. not e: Ifi ynou ge t t rehsponeses t o A us Bby AApri l 5 iwes'lls ruune. O
35 March/April 1993
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
__YOUr
SOUFrCe.
SO MANY BOOKS, SO LITTLE TIME...
YOU NEED ONE SOURCE FOR ALL THE BEST!
ALTOGETHER WE STOCK OVER 33,000 TITLES...
AND WE ALSO CARRY WOMEN'S & GAY
MEN'S MAGAZINES, CALENDARS, CARDS,
AUDIO, VIDEO, AND OUR EVER GROWING
LIST OF UNIVERSITY PRESSES. CALL TODAY
FOR FAST, FRIENDLY, EFFICIENT SERVICE.
ORDERS 1-800-243-0138 FAX 1-800-334-3892 ELECTRONIC ORDERS 1-800-453-0077
March/April 1993 36 Volume 15 Number 6
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
INBOOK, THE SALES DIVISION OF INLAND
BOOK COMPANY, NOW DISTRIBUTES
GYNERGY BOOKS/ RAGWEED PRESS, SCARLET
PRESS, DALKEY ARCHIVE PRESS, ECW PRESS,
MILLIVRES BOOKS AND LITERARY PRESS
GROUP AS WELL AS ALYSON, BANNED, BAY, | hN LA hN D
CLEIS, CURBSTONE, FIREBRAND, GMP, GREEN
PRINT, HEALTH ALERT, INTERNATIONAL We specialize in women's, gay men's, multicultural,
and progressive alternative publishers and their books.
BOOKS, NEW SOCIETY, ONLYWOMEN, We also offer great service, aggressive discounting
SECOND STORY, SPINSTERS INK, THE and combined shipping with Inland wholesale. Contact
our order department for the name of your sales rep or
WOMEN'S PRESS (UK), AND MORE. call us directly (or order from your favorite wholesaler).
INBOOK ORDERS 800-2 353-3605/800-243-0138 FAX 800-334-3892 ELECTRONIC 800-453-0077
Volume 15 Number 6 37 March/April 1993
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
New Section:
By Jennie Boyd Bull 5. Water's Edge: Women Who Push the Limits in
Thirty-first Street Bookstore, Baltimore MD Rowing, Kayaking and Canoeing, Linda Lewis, Seal
Press, $14.95 pb. See also Uncommon Waters and
A couple of years ago we initiated an ecofemin- Rivers Running Free from this series.
ism section in our store, which has a few titles about 6. Women In The Martial Arts, Carol A. Wiley,
women in wilderness. But a-long-term goal for me has ed., North Atlantic Books, $12.95 pb.
been to gather enough titles to have a women out- 7. The Triathletes: A Season in the Lives of Four
doors/sports section. The silence is deafening in the Women in the Toughest Sport Of All, Jeff Cook, St.
publishing world on women and athletics, sports, etc. Martins Press, $19.95 cl.
We also are a children’s bookstore, and there are more 8. Women Climbing: 200 Years of Achievement,
children’s books about girls and sports, including bi- Bill Birkett and Bill Peascod, The Mountaineers,
ographies of women athletes than there are adult $14.95 pb.
books. Fortunately, a few titles have come out recently, 9. Banshees’ Women Capsized In The Coral Sea,
so this fall we hopefully inaugurate a “Women Out- Jeannine Talley, Mother Courage Press, $12.95. (See
doors/Sports” section. also Women At The Helm.)
1. Are We Winning Yet? How Women Are 10. Weight Training For Women, Thomas D.
Changing Sports and Sports are Changing Women, Fahey and Gayle Hutchinson, Mayfield Publishing,
Mariah Burton Nelson, Random House, $20 cl. $12.95 pb.
2. Out Of Bounds: Women, Sport and Sexual- 11. Guts, Tears and Glory: Champion New Zea-
ity, Helen Lenskyj, Women’s Press/Canada, $12.95 land Sportswomen talk to Trish Stratford, New
pb. Women’s Press/New Zealand, $11.95 pb.
3. Girls Of Summer: In Their Own League, Lois 12. Coaching Evelyn: Fast, Faster, Fastest
Browne, HarperCollins, $19 cl. (The book on which Woman in the World, Pat Connolly, Harper, $15.95.
the movie was based.) 13. Leading Out: Women Climbers Reaching for
4. At The Rim: A Celebration of Women’s Col- the Top, edited by Rachel da Silva, Seal Press, $16.95 pb.
legiate Basketball, Professional Photography Divi- e.c.
sion, Eastman Kodak Company & Thomasson - Grant, If you have any additions for this section, send
$35 cl. (Large-format picture book.) FBN a note and we'll run an update next issue. o
38 March/April 1993
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
been inspired by other communities that experience
oppression. Our naming has been an effective force for
with I ns o na - f b emad i n d isa ty s ? with feminists better than a good day c rh aca in sg me ,. sW exe i s mha ,v e a b h leu im sman a nr dig h ht es t ep rr oo set xec ist mion s ( in a g sa oin mst e
I have always found solace in my community of places) — by units of government, affirmative action
friends, feminists all, Lesbians for the most part, when hiring and diversity training in the workplace, and
the inanities of life under heteropatriarchy get to me. increasing inclusivity by commercial interests. It is
For every slight, affront, and outright assault there is because of this legacy that I expect feminists to be in
comfort in knowing I am not a cognitive minority of the vanguard of justice making.
one, but a member of a communitý of women who
“get it.” In fact, the extent to which someone “gets it”
is the criterion by which I open my life to another.
But “getting it” gets harder all the time. I expect
an increasing depth of sensitivity from my associates.
Criteria that used to be enough, i.e., agreement on
some political point, is not an “open sesame” any-
more. Once you know, you have to act. Period.
There is more and more knowing in the pool of
feminist consciousness. It’s not that every woman can
be expected to know, without the process of coming to
know, but what is known in a general way in the
feminist community is available knowledge. If we
inform our community interactions by our knowing,
not every feminist needs to have read every mold-
breaking book, attended every ground-shaking con-
ference, or gone through every heart- breaking
confrontation to benefit from this collective knowing.
The words are out there. Can't say you didn’t know. In a time when men use protections that women
Ever since the first consciousness-raising groups have won to defeat women and call affirmative action
we've witnessed that feminists tell the truth as we tell programs “reverse discrimination,” I am wary of
our truths. We take it on faith that by uncovering the charges against feminists. Yet there are times when
lies, reversing the reversals, and exposing the oppres- feminists are wrong. We have arrived at the day when
sions that hide the truth of our lives, we will come to feminist organizations have been called to account-
know a way of peace and compassion, of truth and ability by non-feminist organizations and govern-
justice. mental units. Apart from harassment from men
Feminist truthtelling has evolved other truths wanting in on woman-only space, these charges must
and increased critical awareness in every community be taken very seriously. Members of oppressed groups
Where feminists work and play. It has inspired and have good reason to meet in exclusive gatherings
Volume 15 Number 6 39 March/April 1993
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
without the presence of their oppressors. The ability upon a movement. To embody feminism, we are
to name this space is irrefutable. Any other exclusion called to create mutually enriched lives and critical
must be treated as oppressive. awareness from our diverse experiences. We are
called not only to name oppression, but to end it,
beginning in our midst. If members of our commu-
nity need the resources of non-feminist organizations
to gain access to their own community, then they are
not wrong to employ such actions. Of course, it is far
preferable that feminists call one another to account
because when we do so it is to strengthen the com-
munity, not to undermine feminism. The charge of
political correctness does much less harm to our com-
munity than the charge of oppression.
We have to stop naming ourselves as victims
only, because until we can cop to our roles as oppres-
sors we cannot undo the injustices that plague our
community. When oppression within undermines
the work of our organizations it must be named and
ended. To believe ourselves an embattled group
without the resources to take on anti-oppression
work and strategies is to shortchange our power. We
are right to insist that government and big business
be held accountable as well, but this cannot replace
a > iabe a cc ot miv me u nan itt ii e- so .p p Fr ee mss ii no in s t sw o ar rk e cin h a no gu er mow akn e r f s e m anin di s t to
accomplish our goals to end dominations of all kinds
D eer w ine tm heu s t m ac ie nl se tb rr ea at me t ah ne d g ka ein eps o ou nr p a ug se hn id na gs ah ha ev ae d m wa itd he
our vision. To do this the feminist community needs
to model critical awareness made active. Few of our
organizations do this.
There used to be a lot of self-righteousness in the
feminist community about issues of oppression.
When we challenge one another it is not from vindic-
tiveness or hollow ideology, but because inclusion is a
baseline value. If racism, sexism, ageism, ableism,
heterosexism are now recognized as wrong in the
When white feminists fail to deal with our rac- public sector, it is because of the truthtelling un-
ism we fail our sisters, we disappoint ourselves, we leashed by the civil rights and feminist movements.
disavow our anti-oppression agenda, and we violate Our communities have lead the shout for freedom, but
human rights protections guaranteed by law. unless we are content to retire as precocious upstarts,
Whereas it was once cool, hip, and rad to have a the first naming/shouting will not suffice.
multicultural staff or board, such gestures are an Oppression is wrong and any tolerance or ex-
inadequate first step upon which we have sat so long cuses for racism, ageism, sexism (yes, that too), able-
it has sagged under the cynicism of tokenism. We ism, heterosexism in our midst is also wrong. The lies
have the words, faith and analysis of our sisters of haveP been e uncorvered,i thoe revdersals .rev ersed , thOe 0p-
color to make our mission statements true. Nowhere pressions exposed. Once you know, you have to act.
else have such resources and patience been heaped
March/April 1993 40 Volume 15 Number 6
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Compiled by Carol Seajay one) to: International Women’s Library Conference,
Schlesinger Library, Radcliffe College, 10 Garden $t.,
Oasis: Espacio Cultural Para Mujeres is a feminist Cambridge MA 02138.
‚library and information center in Guadalajara that also The Women’s Center Library for Russia wel-
offers hostel service to traveling women for $9- comes contributions in the form of books, periodicals
$15/night during the months of September to June. For and, especially, current subscriptions to periodicals.
more information telephone Guadalajara 614-5755 be- Their address is 18 Sadovaya Kudrinskaya, 103001
tween 9 pm and 12 pm or write to Oasis, Apartado Moscow k1, Russia.
Postal 1-833, CP 44100 Guadalajara JAL, Mexico. Orn
An Incarcerated Peoples Yellow Pages is being com-
piled and is looking for information on publications
available to people in prison as well as AIDS/HIV An organization of “traditional” women’s maga-
support information and education; multi-cultural re- zines in Prague would also welcome copies of, or gift
sources; gay, lesbian and transsexual resources and sup- subscriptions to, both feminist magazines and main-
port groups; media resources and contact people, stream women’s magazines. They are just beginning
women’s rights and feminist resources and much more. to address issues such as battered wives, equal rights,
The people working on this project have access to com- working mothers and even abortion. Send to Dr. Rajka
puters and to printing. What they need is information Tognerova, MONA, Jidrisska 5, 110 00 Prague 1,
and resources to list. Please send addrcss, phonc, a Czechoslovakia.
conact person if possible, and a brief description of the Sarah Schulman has joincd the Gail Leondar Pub-
resource or service to Clyde (Rusty) Hazelton #78003-8, lic Relations firm as a consultant. She will read, cri-
c/o CMHIP, 1600 West 24th St., Pueblo CO 81003. tique and evaluate unpublished fiction. Until now,
Plans for the next Feminist Book Fortnight (UK- Gail Leondar Public Relations has focused on obtain-
June) are now well underway. If you interested in ing post-publication publicity for authors. (62 Bay St.,
helping on a volunteer basis (and live near enough to Springfield MA 01109. 413-733-2106.
be helpful) contact Chris George, c/o Everywoman, Uncommon Hands, a subsidiary of Woman in the
34 Islington Green, London N1 8DU, UK. Telephone: Moon Publications, has been founded to aid writers in
071-359-5496. self-publishing their work. For further information,
DR contact Woman in the Moon Publications, 2215 R Mar-
ket St., Box 137, San Francisco CA 94114.
The Schlesinger Library on the History of Women Lesbian Writers Fund Applications Due
in America, as part of the celebration of its 50th anni- The Lesbian Writers Fund is accepting submis-
Vversary, is planning an international women’s library sions for the 1993 awards. Now in its third year, the
conference for mid-June 1994. If you would like to be Lesbian Writers Fund was established by the Astraea
on the mailing list for conference information, send National Lesbian Action Foundation to support the
your name and address (and fax number if you have work of emerging lesbian writers of fiction and poetry.
Volume 15 Number 6 41 March/April 1993
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Applicants must have published at least one piece of
DENEY E work in a magazine, newspaper, literary journal or
anthology. Deadline for applications is March 31,
TESBIAN MAGATINE 1993. Write to the Lesbian Writers Fund, c/o Astraea,
666 Broadway #520, New York NY 10012 for guide-
lines, eligibility criteria and application forms.
Astraea is the first nationwide lesbian foundation.
Astraea was begun in 1977 by a multi-racial, multi-cul-
tural group of feminist activists to empower women
through financial and organizational support. In recog-
nition of the contributions and needs of lesbians, As-
traea became the National Lesbian Action Foundation
in 1990. The Lesbian Writers Fund has been made pos-
sible by the generous support of its founding donor,
Joan Drury, a lesbian feminist philanthropist from Min-
neapolis MN. The Fund is seeking additional contribu-
tions to expand the number and kinds of awards to be
made in future ye ars.Er
Honoring Audre Lorde
The Feminist Bookstores Network sponsored a
page in the program for the Audre Lorde Memorial at
St. John’s in New York City. Thead read “Poetry is the
way we help give a name to the nameless so it can be
DENEUVE thought.’ Feminist bookstores worldwide celebrate
Audre Lorde’s life, work and words.”
Several funds have been established to remember
THE HOT BI-MONTHLY LESBIAN MAGAZINE and honor Audre Lorde:
The Audre Lorde Memorial Fund is being estab-
lished in Audre Lorde’s name for two purposes: to
“A MANDATORY commission a sculpture of a bust of Audre Lorde and
to establish a scholarship fund for Black women writ-
STOCK” ers. The Astraea Foundation will accept donations on
behalf of the Fund. Make checks payable to The
— Barbara Grier Astraea Foundation/Audre Lorde Memorial Fund.
Naiad Press Mail donations to Astraea Foundation, 666 Broadway
#520, New York NY 10012.
Nationwide toll-free In lieu of flowers, donations may be sent to SISA
(Sisterhood in Support of Sisters in South Africa), PO
1-800-998-5565 Box 24966 GBS, St. Croix, USVI 00824-0966.
Woman in the Moon Publications is inviting fem-
Throughout Canada inist publishers and bookstores to join WIM in estab-
lishing an Audre Lorde Memorial Writing Fund for
Door Mouse (416) 968-6890 lesbian-feminist writers, especially those of color or of
$4.00 COVER. BI-MONTHLY. +64pg invisible ethnicity, needing assistance. WIM hopes
that cach publisher and bookstore will be willing to
March/April 1993 42 Volume 15 Number 6
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
donate $25-$100/year toward the establishment and Polly's, Prism, Journey to F ulfillment, Return to Lesbos, and
maintenance of the fund. For further information, con- World Without Men. Offer good while quantities last.
tact SDiane Bogus, WIM Publications, 2215R Market Bookstores are free to use the books for special promo-
4S 0t. 8, - 2B 5o 7x -5 61 83 37 ., San Francisco CA 94114. 408-253-3329; fax tions, to sell, or any other bit of genius they come up
with. For more information, contact Naiad Press, PO
Box 10543, Tallahassee FL 32302. 904-539-9322.
Women’s History Month
Women’s History Month display materials are ERE
available from the National Women’s History Project
(7738 Bell Rd., Windsor CA 95492. 707-838-6000) and Africa Books Collective
t Bh oe x O 4r 38g ,a n Biz la ut ei o n H i lf l o r M EE q u 0a 4l 6 1 E 4d . u 2c 0at 7i -o 3n 7 4 -o 2f 4 8 t 9h ).e T S he ex e s t h e(P mO e initiat T ivh ee eA stf ar bi lc ia s h eB do o k ins C 19o 9ll 0e c t bi yve a is g ra o um p a j oo fr Ase fl rf i- ch ae nlp
for this year is “Discover a New World: Women’s publishers to distribute their books in Europe, North
History.” America and in Commonwealth countries outside of
NWHP offers a full color 1993 commemorative Africa. 800+ titles from 33 publishers in 12 countries
poster (17" x 25") for $6, a colorful headliner announc- are stocked. 150-200 new titles are added each year.
$in 3g .5 0 ;t h 9e " 1 b9 a9 l3 l o ot nh se m te h a t(i n p rt ow clo a i mse c t “i Mon ars, c h e a ic sh W 34 o" m ex n ’ s11") for mFo ar t e rt ih ae l wti im the ab nei n eg m, p A hB asC is s ot noc k cs r e o atn il vy e E wn rg il ti is nh g- l a bn yguage
History Month” in vivid colors at $2.75/dozen and, if African authors, critical works on African literature,
you want to do a freebee give-away, women’s history scholarly and academic books, certain general interest
bookmarks. $6.95 per package of 200 bookmarks. The items and exciting children’s books.
bookmarks are full color, are printed on both sides, Some of the interesting books in the African
and feature eight women: Louisa May Alcott, Eleanor Women Writers section of ABC's catalog include: One
Roosevelt, Harriet Tubman, Clara Barton, Amelia Ear- Never Knows: An Anthology of Black South African Women
hart, Mary Church Terrel], Elizabeth Blackwell, and in Exile, $7.95; Garden House which addresses the theme
“Babe” Didrikson Zaharias. of women’s emancipation, $18; The Bride Price, trans-
OEES offers a free poster with each order of 8+ lated from Dholuo, by Kenya's best know woman
posters postmarked before March 31 from their 97- novelist, $7.95; Legacies, a prize winning play about an
poster Great Women series that supports multi-cul- African-American woman's rediscovery of her roots,
tural education and features women of many races and $7.50; In Search of Rainbows poetry addressing sexism
ethnic groups and women with disabilities; and/or and patriarchy in South African society, $7.95; and
from their Women of Achievement, Women at Work, Miriam Tlali’s Mihloti, $7.95. Women’s Studies titles
and Stay in School series. Write for bookstore catalog. include The Emancipation of Women: An African Perspec-
lerinen tive Which looks at bride-wealth, child marriage, po-
lygamy, purdah, inheritance, fertility and female
circumcision in the African cultural context, $13.75;
In its next mailing, Naiad Press will detail a new Independence is Not Only for One Sex, the stories and
program that offers booksellers free case lots of titles hopes of 34 Zimbabwean women, $8.50,and more.
that Naiad is allowing to go out of print. Booksellers will Publishers range from Heinemann-Kenya to uni-
be able to order one case per month of any of the versity presses to single-title publishers. Bookstore
following titles with a wholesale order of $300 or more terms are 35% for 6+ books with a handful of books at
(postage will be charged on the free case only). Titles short (20%) discount, 90 days net for US and Canadian
available include: Lesbian Nuns, Remembering Who We orders. Prepaid orders are sent carriage-free. Catalog
Are, Heartscape, Lesbian Queries, Last September, Heavy prices listed in both dollars and pounds.
Gilt, The Amazon Trail, Sue Slate: Priùate Eye, Priorities, To receive a copy of the ABC catalog or to be added
Berrigan, Searching for Spring, We Walk the Back of the to the Collective's mailing list write or fax African Books
Tiger, Surviving Sister, Zoe's Book, Rose Penski, The Pears, Collective, The Jam Factory, 27 Park End St., Oxford
Surplus, A Studio of One's Own, Slow Dancing at Miss OX1 1HU, England; fax: 011-44-865-793298. O
43 March/April 1993
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
ISG
A'N D
Back to Press has bought the rights to Tiger's Heart by Lauren W.
Cleis Press has sent The Wall by Marlen Hausho- Douglas. Annama Forlag has bought Murder at the
fer back to press for a second printing of 2,500 copies, N Ki ag th ht ew rio no ed V B . a r F o a rn rd es t h 'sa s w oo rp kti .o n Med o v if eu t ru ir ge h t r s i g fh ot rs Pt eo n na yll of
b Yr ei an rg s i n S hug as su t n h b e eW e nt e o e t d sa e’l s n tt W o bi s a6 e c, k0 W0 0 to o m i n a p n r p e sr W si n a t by. ys f Ao sr h M Te rn eeo p a Pu us ba -l bH Gea rey an ee ’s s ’ tY ae Skl ol e uo n lw t b Sh nyr a o t a D ct ha r e h v r.oav ne Pb re oe dn u c tso iold n s a n fod r a n C a mop arti io nn has
l wis ah s in 1g 2 , 0f 0o 0r . 13,000. The first print run last September The Women’s Press in London has just bought the
Y foo ru tC hW a en o r sDd ixo t W ht oe a t v iE me nr eds fh P oaa rts r i as a e r n c tt h o ty at ” lh e op fo “ s 1 t 40 e ,r0 5 0 0bS .i am ckp l e t o T h pi rn eg sss B nWr ori wt ii ts i h bnS e go eu r n ti i g h n h s o t A I ls n d s d it a i to n a o: J r 6 Oe i 0g xs 0s h f o t Bs rW . dC e t . l o l U s t n’ b o i o vA t etf h rht see i r v t s yo Th l wu o Pmc e rk ne es ts s i s e /( toT h If nh di r CW id ae no m atS nui ed drne y P hr ae vs es).
British rights have gone to Pandora, now owned by
HarperCollins.
German rights to Allegra Maud Goldman by Edith
Konecky have been sold to Alibaba. Campusverlag in
Munich has bought Get Smart! by Montana Katz and
Veronica Vieland. Donna Vita has bought The Mer-
Child: A Legend for Children and Other Adults by Robin
Morgan. Lubbe Verlag will bring out Now in November
by Josephine Johnson.
Japanese rights to Tatterhood and Other Tales by
Ethel Johnston Phelps have been sold to Gakuyo
ILR Press at Cornell University announces these Shobo. Hosei Daigaku Shuppankyoku has bought the
back to press items: In the Way of Women: Men's Resis- Japanese rights to Witches, Midwives and Nurses and
tance to Sex Equality in Organizations by Cynthia Cock- Complaints and Disorders: The Sexual Politics of Sickness
burn is now in its second printing and has 3,000 copies by Deirdre English and Barbara Ehrenreich.
in print. Holding the Line: Women in the Great Arizona Spanish rights to Getting Free by Ginny NiCarthy
Mine Strike of 1983 by Barbara Kingsolver will be back were sold through Seal’s Spanish agent, Julio Yanez,
at press for a fourth printing, bringing the total to to Sistemas Technicos de Edicion in Mexico. Italian
more than 7,000. rights to The Dog Collar Murders by Barbara Wilson
Lesbian Ethics has just gone into its fourth printing were sold through Seals Italian agent, Roberta Oliva,
of 5,000 copies. to Estro, a feminist press in Florence.
Scarlet Press has sold the German rights for The
Rights European Women's Almanac to Deutscher Taschenbuch
Naiad Press announces the sale of The Erotic Naiad Verlag, who will print 8,000 copies. They have also sold
to Silvermoon Books in England. Naiad has also sold the Australian/New Zealand rights to Allen & Unwin
the rights to Claire McNab’s Dead Certain to for Because You Want to Write by Pearlie McNeill.
Silvermoon and Frauenoffensive. Frauenoffensive See Back to Press, page 48
March/April 1993 44 Volume 15 Number 6
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Q IN
© opo ooo 9 O
By Carol Seajay It’s also a pleasure to note that Volcano Press's
Save My Rainforest (V15 #4, pg. 88) has been nominated
; Donna Ferrato’s Living with the Enemy (Aperture) for the Notable 1992 Children’s Trade Books in the
(FBN Vol. 14 #5, pg. 73) got a nice PR boost recently — Field of Social Studies list, one of the many lists pre-
a photo of Hillary Rodham Clinton holding the book. pared under the auspices of the CBC.
mOn ee s t io cf v C iol li en nt co en . 's Y em s!any commitments is reducing do- Fighting Amendment Two: Columbia University
Press staff found a constructive way to address their
30,000 copies of Ms hit the British newsstands in conflicts about attending the ALA in post-Amendment
November while rave reviews touted the magazine as Two Colorado — they went (there was not time to move
“Hillary Clinton’s favorite. Australia and New Zea- the huge ALA convention out of Colorado after the
land are next. Ms is reported to have run in the black election) but also arranged for 60+ books in their lesbian
for the last two years. and gay studies series Between Men — Between
In related magazine publishing news, the Inter- Women to be sent to libraries across the state of Colorado.
national Data Group (Computerworld and PCWorld,
etc.) have extended health care benefits to include
unmarried partners — whether gay or straight. IDG’s o00 S 92
health plan is underwritten by San Francisco's Trans-
american Occidental Life Insurance Company. Cover- Opening a bookstore? ABA has just announced
age begins April 1. an “opening a Bookstore Module" that includes “a
Alyson Publications is no longer for sale — none wealth of bottom-line information.” Yours for $12.50
of the interested parties offered the right combination — unless you're an ABA member, in which case it’s
of financial benefits, commitment to groundbreaking free. Send a check to ABA, Dept. ISC, 560 White Plains
gay and lesbian publishing, and community respon- Rd, Tarrytown NY 10591.
sibility — such as keeping the “controversial” books Books for Life is a grassroots, non-profit organi-
for children of gay and lesbian parents in print. In- zation in the formative stage that wishes to distribute
stead, Alyson is now looking for someone to run the new books to economically disadvantaged children
company on a day-to- day level. on an ongoing basis. For more information or to make
Children’s Book Council Updates: As we go to donations, write to Books for life, RR2 Box 2678 Plains
press, the CBC board of directors is meeting to discuss Rd., Pittsford VT 05763.
changing membership and participation require- The Multicultural Publishers Exchange has de-
ments, presumably with an eye to integrating inde- cided to hold its next three annual conferences in San
pendent and small publishers into CBC-sponsored Francisco. The fourth conference is scheduled for Nov.
programs. Hopefully we'll have good news from that 4-7, 1993. MPE is reviewing books for inclusion in
meeting in the next issue of FBN and at ABA. (See their annual MPE/ Highsmith catalog, one of the best
“Independent Presses and the CBC” in the last issue available sources for authentic multicultural books.
of FBN.) For applications write to MPE, 2215 Atwood Ave,,
Volume 15 Number 6
March/April 1993
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Madison WI 55704. Booksellers that don’t already smal], independent feminist bookstores that have kept
receive the catalog may request a copy from MPE, PO us in business all these years.”
Box 9869, Madison WI 53715. Publishers Weekly has been offering exciting cov-
erage of the chain-based superstores vs. independent
bookstores battle. It’s a relief that someone in the book
oga SO AN N? D 9 industry is finally tackling the issue and is unafraid to
describe the ugly parts of the battle. Would that ABA
Superstores: There was a hopeful moment when — which started out as an independent booksellers
it was announced that K-Mart had purchased the association — had the chutzpah to do the same!
Borders chain. But rather than downgrading the Movie Tie-ins: Claire of the Moon is opening in
strong and successful Borders stores to their blue- various cities around the country. Claire “parapherna-
light- special mentality, KMart has decided to place its lia includes a video of out-takes, CD, t-shirts and
Basset stores under Borders management and to turn posters." Watch, too, for the release of Like Water for
them into Borders stores. Borders is by far the best and Chocolate, a very wonderful and womanist (though
most successful of the chains doing “superstores” — not lesbian) movie based on the novel by the same
a concept that is both encouraging for book lovers and name. It will hit the screens in April — unless it’s
discouraging in that Borders does the best job of stock- shortlisted in the Academy Awards Best Foreign Film
ing feminist, lesbian, gay, and small/independent category and is released in February.
press titles. While many Borders stores and staffers are Much acclaimed “new” British feminist publisher
committed to building good working relationships Open Letters went into voluntary liquidation in early
with feminist and gay stores, some of the community December. Open Letters was a wonderful dream that
stores’ sales have been hurt when a Borders moves couldn't be fulfilled during recession. All along the way
into their neighborhood. cash that was promised never materialized. Support
How important is Borders in the overall scheme from the local government fell through when Labour
of things? Barbara Grier, of Naiad Press offers these lost the general election and budgets for small business
figures: programs were slashed. Private investors were unable
“Book Inventory Systems (Borders’ book buying to fulfill commitments due to losing money in other
and distribution segment, BIP) is our third largest enterprises, lay-offs, and/or inability to sell property.
source of distributor sales (excluding, of course, our The final blow came with “Black Wednesday” (the day
sales directly to bookstores and our sales to our retail, sterling was forced out of the EEC Exchange Rate Mech-
mail-order customers) — right after Inland and Book- anism and the pound suffered a 17% devaluation) and
people. In 1992 44% of our distributor sales came from previously interested institutional investors ran for high
Inland, 22% from Bookpeople, 11% from BIP/ Borders, ground. There are hopes that the Open Letters Book
a tad less from Airlift, 9% from Ingram, and 3% from Club and the backlist will be sold and kept intact and in
Stilone (Australia)....” print.
concer ( nN sa ,i a od v ea rl as lo l r se ap leo sr t is n t 1h 9a 9t 2, d we es rp eit e d om wi nd ,- s u “om nm lyer o7 O9 o 0A 0 O
about $60,000" from 1991. Naiad had originally pro-
jected a $120,000 drop in total sales. Sales picked up At the same time that the financial difficulties
during the fall and holiday months and Naiad projects were coming to a head, Open Letter's founder Ros de
that “January ‘93 will be our biggest January in his- Lanerolle was diagnosed with inoperable lung cancer
tory" and that 1993 sales will outpace both 1992 and and was forced to take leave to devote her time and
1991. In 1992 Naiad decided to stop reprinting and considerable energies to regaining her health. One bit
warehousing 31 titles.) of encouraging news has come our way: In December,
Addressing the superstore issue at the New Eng- when Women In Publishing chose Ros as the recipient
land Booksellers Association trade show this fall, New of the Pandora Award for service to feminist publish-
Victoria's Beth Dingman noted that the superstore ingt, Rhos weas wel l eanouwgh to a attrend d the . p arty aOnd receive
question “is a dilemma for everybody. It’s been the
March/April 1993 46 Volume 15 Number 6
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Thinking of opening a mail-order feminist book-
Licia Fields and Jennie Mignone are pleased to service out of rural Ontario, Maureen Hair would
announce the opening of Significant Sisters, a appreciate helpful information and insights. 610-1
lesbianfeminist bookstore focusing on women and art, Phillip St. E., Gravenhurst ONT. Canada P1P 1M3;
lesbian fiction and small press titles not otherwise 705-687-8772, fax 705-687-0592.
available in their area. You can extend a greeting to
them at 253 E. Main St., Ashland OR 97520. Zv
Sylvia Mann and Cyndi Chamlee have opened UN
PLU Books & Gifts, an 800 square feet lesbian/gay
bookstore. Welcome! 109 East Kings Hwy, Shreveport Herland Inc., a multi-cultural women’s resource
LA 71104; 318-861-4223. center, is planning to open a bookstore in May, with
Weaved Words: Mysteries by Mail, featuring the ultimate goal of creating a network for crafts-
mysteries by women authors, is busy getting their women, writers, publishers, artists, and healers. For
catalog together. To receive a catalog or offer informa- information exchange, write or call Kayla Rose at PO
tion, contact Albertha Moses and Terry Ames c/o Box 3482, Santa Cruz CA 95060; 408-42-WOMEN.
Weaved Words, 2411 Walnut St., Everett WA 98201; Lucinda Kennedy has plans for a women’s store
206-259-4193. in Freeport, Maine. Sister Creations will carry books,
Another mail-order business, this one focusing music, crafts and greeting cards by sisters, and will be
on women’s health and spirituality, has opened re- opening by April 1. Contact Lucinda at 202 US Rt #1
cently. Teri F. Dowling of Midwifery Book Service is Suite 114, Falmouth ME 04105.
particularly interested in stocking books on lay mid- Linda Mowry is hoping to open Prairie Moon, a
wifery and menstrual health that reflect women’s di- woman-friendly bookstore in Arlington Heights, Illi-
versity. Anyone with information on books in these nois by April. Call her at 708-427-8464.
areas can reach Teri at 5920 Armstrong Pkwy., Dallas The Jagori center in New Delhi is planning to
TX 75205. open a feminist bookshop. B-5, Housing Co-op Soci-
ety, South Extension Part-1, New Delhi-110049.
Avalon Women’s Book Center will soon be open-
ing in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. Information about dis-
tributors, grants and stock can be sent to Rebecca
Mail-order is booming these days! Rebecca Mann Stroup, 3212 N. Bartlett Ave., Milwaukee WI 53211.
is slated to open a lesbian / gay mail-order business in Sue Miller is considering creating a women’s
Spring 1993. Contact her at PO Box 253, East bookstore. She would greatly appreciate any informa-
Waterboro ME 04030; 207-247-4496, 207-775-4800. tion. Send to 334 7th Ave., Bethlehem PA 18018.
Outbooks has been open for over three months Hoping to start a lesbian/gay book and novelty
now. Robert Sonnekson’s 1200 square foot bookstore store in Peoria, Illinois, Wendy Gibson is also putting
has a lesbian / gay focus and is located at 1239 E. Las out a call for information about books and sidelines.
Olas Blvd., Ft. Lauderdale FL 33301; 305-764-4333. 1309 S. Laramie, Peoria IL 61605; 309-637-1822.
Volume 15 Number 6 March/April 1993
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Bookstore Closings home: 1045 Westgate Drive, St. Paul MN 55114. Their
Pamela Slik is “taking up the torch” passed on by phone numbers remain: 800-283-3572 for toll-free or-
Mrs. Dalloway’s in Kingston, Ontario. Mrs. Dalloway’s ders; fax 612-221-1024; and business telephone 612-
closed on January 30 of this year, so Pamela plans to open 221-9035. Their SAN is 2006049.
a new feminist bookstore in her community. Send infor- InBook welcomes two new publishers as of Janu-
mation and encouragement to PO Box 2105, Picton On- ary 1: London's Scarlet Press and Canadian feminist
tario, Canada KOK 2T0. publisher gynergy books/Ragweed Press.
Two bookstores-no-more: Our Mothers’ Gardens,
401 N. Riverfront, Mankato MN 56001 and Back Door Corrections
Bookstore, South Inc., 2219 Wilton Drive, Ft. Lauder- Feminists for Animal Rights is no longer centered
dale FL 33305 have closed their doors. The Back Door in Berkeley, CA. Their new address is PO Box 694,
Bookstore in West Palm Beach continues to thrive. Cathedral Station, New York NY 10025. Membership
is now $15 - 25 (sliding scale). Bookstore terms and
prices: The cover price is $3 (20 pages). It is being
distributed by both Inland and Bookpeople and is
subject to their terms. If you order directly from FAR,
Books Move it is 50% discount with a minimum of 10 issues, plus
Scarlet Press of London is moving forward on $3 to help defray postal costs. Canadian and foreign
U.S. distribution, and has signed up with Inland. orders, $5 postal costs. When ordering directly from
InBook will be distributing four of their 1992 titles: FAR, they are non-returnable, but they are returnable
Lesbians Talk pamphlet series: Queer Notions by when ordering from distributors.
Cherry Smyth and Safer Sex by Sue O'Sullivan and Carol from Lady Iris bookstore called in with an
Prathiba Parmar; Women Talk Sex, edited by Pearlie address correction (oops!): 10 Ladd St., Portsmouth
McNeill, Bea Freeman and Jenny Newman; and Be- NH 03801; 603-431-3320. O
cause You Want to Write by Pearlie McNeill. Sa
InBook is also distributing Skid, a novel by Maud AAN
Farrell, published by The Women’s Press, Ltd.(UK). E
Inland is now distributing the lesbian quarterly Esto
no Tiene Nombre: Revista de Lesbianas Latinas (reviewed
in FBN 15#4, pp 57-58). Back to Press, continued from page 44
Down the Wild River North by Constance
Awards and Other Good News
Helmericks, originally published by Bergamot Books,
will be published by Seal Press in April. Next of Kin (Zephyr Press) by Marianne Langner
The Riverhouse Stories by Andrea Carlisle, origi- Zeitlin won a Toronto Book Award last May.
nally published by Calyx Books, is now available from Some of the winners of the 1992 Governor
The Eighth Mountain Press under a new ISBN: 0- General's Literary Awards of the Canada Council:
933377-24-X (same price, $8.95). Since The Riverhouse Fiction — Anne Hebert of Paris, France, for L'enfant
Stories has been unavailable for quite some time, stores charge de songes (Editions de Seuil); Poetry — Lorna
will be pleased to know that it's now available as an Crozier of Sidney, British Columbia, for Inventing the
Eighth Mountain book through normal channels. Hawk (McClelland and Stewart); Nonfiction — Mag-
gie Siggins of Regina, for Revenge of the Land: A Century
Publishers Move of Greed, Tragedy and Murder on a Saskatchewan Farm
Conari Press is moving. As of June 15th, their new (McClelland and Stewart).
address will be: 1144 65th St. Suite B, Emeryville CA Save My Rainforest by Monica Zak (Volcano Press)
94608. Phone and fax numbers will remain the same: has been selected for the “Notable 1992 Children’s
510-596-4040, fax 510-654-7259. Trade Books in the Field of Social Studies” by the
tium C Bo on okso r St aiu lem s &h a s D i sm tro iv be ud t! i o nA s i so f l o cJ aa tn eu da r iy n 1 t, h e C iro n nso er w- N wat iio tn hal C tou hnc eil f Cor h t ih le d rSo ec nial ’ s S t u Bdie os, o kin c Con oju unc nti con il. O
March/April 1993 48 Volume 15 Number 6
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Press Gang Publishers is calling for unpublished Anthology by lesbians who have raised or are
work (short stories, biographical writing, black-and- currently raising adolescent and teenage boys seeks
white artwork and other creative submissions) for a fiction, non-fiction, poems, oral tapes, graphics, plays
. Canadian/New Zealand anthology of post-colonial and music. Include a 50-word biography, SASE and
lesbian writing to be edited by Beth Brant and Cathie send to Leah Moussaioff, 836 South Dakota, Seattle
Dunsford. Canadian contributors send SASE along WA 98108.
with your work. Press Gang Publishers, 603 Powell
St., Vancouver B.C. Canada V6A 1H2; 604-253-2537. MIANO
Deadline: March 31, 1993.
The Multi-cultural Jewish Dyke Network Newsletter
is inviting Jewish lesbians to send in writing, artwork, Teri Dowling of Midwifery Book Service is
photos, cartoons, poems and ideas. Financial advice searching for materials for an upcoming book on
and donations welcomed. Leah Astarte, PO Box 1006, women’s menstrual rituals. Contributions and related
Huntington NY 11743. book suggestions may be sent to her at: 5920 Arm-
strong Parkway, Dallas TX 75205.
Tough Dove Books is looking for lesbian adven-
ture stories for an upcoming anthology: stories about The editors of Catholic Girls are seeking stories
wild women, eccentric characters, sexual exploits, and poems for the anthology Catholic Girls and
travel, science fiction, fiction and non-fiction. Write to: Boys, to be published by Plume. Topics for consid-
Mikaya, 11101 Eastside Road, Ukiah CA 95482. Dead- eration include: sexuality, spirituality, humor/hor-
line: January 1994. ror, repression, family, healing and outrageous
stories. Previously published work will be consid-
Woman in the Moon Publications is currently ered. Please send manuscripts with SASE to:
accepting submissions focusing on any experience of Vecchione/Sumrall, PO Box 61, Capitola CA 95010.
enlightenment, hope, peace, joy and trust. Manu- Deadline: May 31, 1993.
scripts will be accepted from January 1 until April 30,
with a $7 fee. Two new publications — New Moon: The Magazine
Poems for the Woman in the Moon Poetry Prize for Girls and Their Dreams and New Moon Parenting: For
will be accepted from January 1 to March 31. Submis- Adults Who Care About Girls — are seeking submis-
sion fee is $5. sions from adult writers and artists as well as from
Submissions for the Pat Parker Memorial Poetry girls ages 8-14 years old. The premiere issue of New
Amwarids swiilol nbe a cfcepeteed friosm M$ay1 01 . to July 31. Sub- Moon will focus on cats and personal herstory; the
deadline is April 1, 1993. Send letters, writing, artwork
Send work to T. Nelson Gilbert or SDianc Bogus, and ideas to: 424 Lakeview Avenue, Duluth MN
10203 Parkwood Drive #7, Cupertino CA 95014; 408- 55812; 218-728-5507. Bi-monthly publishing will
253-3329. begin in Sept. 1993.
Volume 15 Number 6 49 March/April 1993
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Free catalog upon request.
Writing Workshops
Rave
Flight of the Mind announces Summer Writing
Workshops for Women for 1993, two six-day work-
shops that take place on the McKenzie River in the
Oregon Cascades. Workshops during July 11-17 will Living in Secret by Cristina Salat is one of the first
be led by Ursula K. LeGuin, Grace Paley, Naomi books to be published for middle-grade readers about
Shihab Nye, Andrea Carlisle, Evelyn C. White, and having a lesbian parent. It examines the dilemma of
Judith Barrington. For the week of July 19-25, the eleven-year-old Amelia who is not allowed — by her
program will include Ursula LeGuin, Becky Birtha, father and by the court — to live with her mother
Judith Barrington, Barbara Wilson, and Elizabeth simply because her mother is a lesbian. But Amelia
W acco oo mdy m. o dC ao ts it o n r sa n cg he os s e f nr , o m an d $ 5 i0 n0 c l uo dn e s u p t, u i td ie op ne , n d loin dg g - on m eni ts is ne gs l si hv ein g w aw ntit sh — h e ar n dm o nm ee d a sn d — i s fn r’t o m g e htt ei rn g c o t rh pe o r ap ta er --
ain bg le . a n Fod r a l al bm roea cl hs u. r S e c h ao nl dar s dh ei tp as i l sa n od n c hr oed wi t t oar e a p a pv lyai ,l - send i rd ee an l t i of pi te id o n f s a t bh ye r t han e d c uh si ts o dg yi r l sf yr si ten emd. , A Al mlow ele iad , n ho e r other
a first class stamp (no envelope) to: 622 S.E. 29th mother, and her mother’s lover, Janey runaway to-
Avenue, SPortland OR S 97214. ApplSication deadline for gether to start new lives, choosing to live in secret
both workshops is May 10th. rather than to continue to be separated. Being a family
with her mom and Janey is exactly what Amelia wants
but living in secret isn't as easy as she'd thought it
would be. It means having to change her name and
her age and her hair color — and worst of all, it means
The 19th Annual Feminist Women’s Writing never telling the truth to her new friend who assumes
Workshops will be held July 11-18 at Hobart and that racism is the reason that Julie/Amelai won't in-
William Smith Colleges in Geneva, NY. Nancy K. vite her home...
Bereano, founder and publisher of Firebrand Books, It’s a YA novel, so don't look for a low-drama
will be guest editor; resident artist will be Kwelismith. ending. But it does look at having a lesbian parent and
Participants will share an on-campus house near the court-ordered restrictions from a kid’s perspective. Ex-
shore of beautiful Seneca Lake. Cost is $450; partial pect strong sales from the lesbian fiction section as well.
sc6ho5lar8sh3ips, ar e I atvahilabalec. aSe nd NSASYE to : 1 PO4 B8ox51. O tra L div ein ,g I n 0 S -ec 5re 5t 3 b -y 0 C 8ri 6sti 7na 0 S -a 7lat ., $1 —5 c ], CBan Sta Om
March/April 1993 50 Volume 15 Number 6
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Northern Woman’s Bookstore 7. The Woman’s Comfort Book, Jennifer Louden,
Thunder Bay, Ontario HarperCollins, $13.
December 1992 8. Dead Certain, Claire McNab, Naiad Press, $9.95.
1. Changing Patterns: Women in Canada ed. by 9. No Rooms of Their Own, Ida Rae Egli, Heyday
Sandra Burt, L. Code, L. Dorney, McClelland & Books, $14.95.
Stewart 10. Our Wildest Dreams, Joline Godfrey, Harper-
2. The Raging Grannies Songbook ed. by Jean Mc- Collins, $20.
Laren & Heide Brown, New Society 11. Wild Woman Archetype, (cassette) Clarissa
Good Bones by Margaret Atwood, Coach House Estes, PhD, Sounds True Recordings, $10.95.
. Edible Woman by Margaret Atwood, Seal Books
. A Whole Brass Band by Anne Cameron, Harbour
. Chalice & the Blade by Riane Eisler, HarperCollins
N N 9. s New Our Bodies/Ourselves by the Boston
Women’s Health Collective
w . You Can Be Free by Ginny NiCarthy, Seal Press
9. When I am an Old Woman ed. by Martz, Papier
Mache
10. Iifer I M Haacdh e My Life to Live Over ed. by Martz, Pap- Courtesy of A Room of One's Own.
11; Issumatuq: Learning from the Traditional Heal- Silvermoon
ing Wisdom of the Canadian Inuit* by Kit London, England
Minor, Fernwood 1992 Ten Bestsellers by Sue Butterworth
*Local author 1. Wise Children by Angela Carter, £5.99. The last
novel from the late Angela Carter. Bawdy, witty
and populated with as many sets of twins and
S DC a el n ca t ei a mr be R eL o rsi ag , 1 h 9 C 9t 2A otm h vi eis s rt a mk a e a n g c en ni id f te uicn ret yni t t i oe fs n o va ss he l o wa n c bey ul e s b iS nrh eaa t sk se .se s p te ha er e m c ao gm ice d oy f,
1. Women Who Run With the Wolves, Clarissa 2. Birth Marks by Sarah Dunant, £4.99. When tal-
Estes, PhD, Ballantine Books, $23. ented dancer Carolyn Hamilton is found dead at
2. $A 17n .gel Book, Karen Goldman, Simon & Schuster, oth lde fb oo et tt uo sm no f et rh e T omha bm e as dw i st th a en ie nig h ht e- rm o pn ot ch k-
i h w n o n s -
3. The Erotic Naiad, Katherine Forrest & Barbara ets Hannah Wolfe tries to find out what really
Grier, eds., Naiad Press, $12.95. happened. The trail leads to super-rich war hero
4. Warming The Stone Child, (cassette) Clarissa Jules Belmont and produces a tooth-rattling thriller
Estes, PhD, Sounds True Recordings, $10.95. that keeps you hooked until the very last full stop.
5. M Pru er sd s,e r $ 9B .9y 5 . Tradition, Katherine Forrest, Naiad 3. B ba yc k Sla us sh a: n T Fh ae l u dU in , d £ec 9l .a 9r 9e . d W W ha ar t hA ag sa i n mst a d eW o wm omen en
6. O lil sd h e rT su , r t $l 1e 7, . 9D 5o .uglas Wood, Pfeifer-Hamilton Pub- Fu an lh udap i p y is i nn o t t h te h e l ia rs t e qd ue ac la itd ye a —cc o wrd hi in chg t to h e ySu s da on n’t
Volume 15 Number 6 51 March/April 1993
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsyet have — but the rising pressure to halt, and 10. Written on the Body by Jeanette Winterson,
even reverse, women’s quest for that equality. £13.99. I really enjoyed this novel — Winterson
Caused a big fuss when it first came out and is has great wit and writes marvellous books. It has
still selling and selling. been enormously popular with our customers
4. Fried Green Tomatoes at the Whistle Stop Cafe and I feel sure that it is on a lot of Christmas lists.
b iny g F na on vn ei le wFl ha ig cg h, i£ s 5 . s9 t9 r. e eA ts t ar hu el ay d f ou fn n ty h e a n fd il m t o u adch ap- - Women & Children First
tation. If you have not read it — don’t miss it! Chicago, IL
5. Cop Out by Claire McNab, £6.99. This one is a Sil- 1992 Bestsellers
ver Moon Books title and I'm proud to say it really . Revolution From Within
is one of this year’s best sellers. A Detective In- . Final Session
spector Ashton nail-biting thriller from bestseller Bean Trees
Claire McNab. Watch this space for a new ro- Beauty Myth
mance from her next year. . Backlash (pb)
6. Side by Side by Isabel Miller, £4.99. The story of . Women Who Run With the Wolves
two courageous young women determined to . Women Respond to the Men’s Movement
live as they must, no matter what the conse- . Sexual Healing Journey
quences. Exciting and funny, this bears many ONNA N. Possessing the Secret of Joy
parallels to the legendary Patience and Sarah. . Allies in Healing
11. Animal Dreams
12. Their Eyes Were Watching God
13. Sister Outsider
14. Courage to Heal Workbook
15. Woman’s Comfort Book
16. Lakota Woman
17. Lesbian Erotic Dance: Butch, Femme, Androgyny
18. Chicana Lesbians
19. Medicine Cards
Courtesy of A Room of One's Own. 20. Odd Girls & Twilight Lovers
7. Jazz by Toni Morrison, £14.99. A spellbinding 21. Places For Women: 12th Edition 1992
story memorable for the haunting passion of its 22. Backlash (cl)
profound love story and for the bittersweet lyri- 23. Woman Hollering Creek
cism and refined sensuality of its powerful and 24. Courage to Heal: New Edition
elegant style. : 25. Incest & Sexuality
8. You Just Don’t Understand by Deborah Tannen, 26. Kitchen Goďs Wife
£5.99. Obviously filling a real need, I have lost 27. Ritual Abuse Definitions: Mind Control
count of how many we have sold of this book. It 28. Alchemy of Race & Rights
strikes resounding chords of recognition and 29. Breaking the Cycle of Satanic Ritual Abuse
shows how, once we understand the differences 30. Under the Southern Cross
in how men and women communicate, We can 31. Daisy Fay & the Miracle Man
really begin talking to each other. 32. Secret Survivors
9. Possessing the Secret of Joy by Alice Walker, 33. Chalice & The Blade
£13.99. This powerful and painful novel from 34. Sexual Healing Journey
Alice Walker has shot to the top of our bestseller 35. Dykes To Watch Out For: The Sequel
list this year. Walker gives us a shattering ac- 36. Bushfire
count of a young girl whose decision to go 37. Mean Spirit
through the female initiation ceremony has terri- 38. Dance of Anger
ble and tragic consequences. 39. Gossamer Axe
March/April 1993 52 Volume 15 Number 6
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Northern Woman’s Bookstore Full Circle Books
Thunder Bay, Ontario Albuquerque, NM
1992 Bestsellers 1992 Bestsellers
Non-Fiction!
1. Courage to Heal by Bass & Davis, HarperCollins
2. CHoaurrpaegreC o tlloi n sHeal Workbook by Laura Davis,
3. You Can Be Free by Ginny NiCarthy, Seal Press
4. Allies in Healing by Laura Davis, HarperCollins
5. Changing Patterns: Women in Canada ed. by
Sandra Burt, L. Code, L. Dorney, McClelland &
Stewart
6. When I am an Old Woman ed. by Martz, Papier-
Mache
7. Ending the Violence by Lee Bowker, Learning
8. Meditations for Women Who Do Too Much by
Anne Wilson Schaef, HarperCollins
9. Learning to Live Without Violence by Daniel
Sonkin & Michael Durphy, Volcano
10. Life's Companion by Christian Baldwin, Bantam
Books
11. Getting Free by Ginny NiCarthy, Seal Press
12. Women & Self-Esteem by Sanford & Donovan,
Penguin 5. Places for Women 1992 by Marianne Ferrari,
13. The Beauty Myth by Naomi Wolf, Vintage Ferrari Pubs Inc.
14. Halfbreed by Maria Campbell, Goodread 6. Under the Southern Cross by Claire McNab, Naiad
15. Shakti Woman by Vicki Noble, HarperCollins 7. Dykes to Watch Out For, The Sequel by Alison
Bechdel, Firebrand Books
Fiction
8. Bushfire ed. by Karen Barber, Alyson Publications
1. Edible Woman by Margaret Atwood, Seal Books 9. Inversions by B. Warland, Press Gang Publishers
2. Amazon by Barbara Walker, HarperCollins 10. Women’s Traveller by WomensTraveller, Damron
3. Cat's Eye by Margaret Atwood, Seal Books 11. Lesbian Sex by JoAnn Loulan, Spinsters Books
4. HF ir llied Green Tomatoes by Fannie Flagg, McGraw 12. Morton River Valley by Lee Lynch, Naiad Press
13. Wish You Were Here by Rita Mae Brown, Bantam
5. People You'd Trust Your Life To? by Bronwen Books
Wallace, McClelland & Stewart
14. Beverly Malibu by Kathryn Forrest, Naiad Press
6 7. . C Ah i Wll h R ola ein B i rn a s sJ a Bn au na dr ?y bb yy AL n.R n. e W Car mig eh rt o, n ,S e Hal a r B bo oo uk rs 1 15 6. . L Pe es rb sii sa tn e n P ta s Dsi eo sn ir eb y e d .J o bA yn n J oL ao nu la Nn e, s t lS ep ,i n Ast lyer ss on
8. W ero om n,e n H, a rK bi od us r & Huckleberry Wine by A. Cam- 17. S Ph ua bd lo isw hs e r sof Aggar by Chris Wolfe, New Victoria
9. Good Bones by Margaret Atwood, Coach House 18. Just Say Yes by Judith McDaniel, Firebrand
1 10 1. . J C Sphan ii nle d s t E eo ry f sr e H eb ry P C eoh par lel o t bt ye B Ar no nn et e , C a mPe en rg ou ni ,n 21 09 .. SL ie da ev e b ya L Si ig dh e t b yon I sf ao br e l M Me il lb ey r, J Ne aa in a d S w Pral el so sw , O Alyson
12. Fever? by Sharon Butala, HarperCollins 1. As you can see, violence issues still dominate.
13. Obasan by Joy Kogawa, Penguin 2. Wonderful!!
14. Wilderness Tips by Margaret Atwood, Seal 3. Butala is a Saskatchewan writer whose last two books have
Books been published by HC. I really like Fever (short stories).
Volume 15 Number 6 53 March/April 1993
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsA
pér
ka. rial
gi weich
Gorgeous, sensuous Moon Island... It is an ordinary evening in July. Vic
H h y CF fa eoe os r cl u e in u iC C ln Tb ye ge e h ne ’ l c d seee B i d n Cb l a l ya lr e c . oc ca a b nk it sB mlr e ge yBe od -r n u a i uue bn tg itB s s s rhe tu ee et t r l dr nt F fn k , t r e t ts e i o. riel h o. ase . d ue e y a Hr n d ’ a s e t H p l n e h r le hen oi o iwv v a l r n sa ee ne b t rs enye t . b t s e’ a se ’ ec h ny n l ei ne e r en c s t ao te, .x bn, as nte dr on na et dion, s t t ci rb h np o i a uc u e je o i u c s n ts rp et a sCh dta ed ,eec d .vs h u f e h e l Hs ana iu el o nr at m rl u ul u e t nr as h br p e te n o s D et i d. dt s o yai ae Pn u na w bg s ta d, y o s n a f ms f s c go oi rw a r uo r a g B i s ln ei ht t det mh , o a e r s au hmrB h n eis em dd rap e e y hrc o sn ct e c. ae na r. arw c . rs etCu ea r el l ern foa r d r o m d ,h im h n a aae ssn O - lb bya emc ek np i ca -gain s m i w t se ni t hht hli g ees n he e nu Ag kt wi t en oa ne o s p n or h b wf oC l et dwr eo sT o n e an ob rn w iVt u f t ai a c e s n k k o h hh e f C d o au n srih m se n w th u ar a cne g t n or asg hee m t , e amt n ea w n e V nt o l dae t tim es e cv ox d i e at s s nn i a i m s o it n m mo,n i s l s o ai u um e an lrs nrn g ne et ddt l i i. i . n : l . f h e g . eBte“ , h . urO ” e t an sa e n d : promis-
B Gb se o uu n v mn ei rel ntd mt o,i r n ’ osC g ne rc ei i l g dyn h’ s te - a h hfr aa int sdh eP r m c e oaao nn np ,d sl he it a d’ h ss e e r P abar lek . i nW fli ull ence D n fra ew oig mn G h br f a o mc rle e i,e s g s R D i vaah w im ne nr s g a , s y p wa a r bh ile oo ln u p t te bs s e h a t en ah r d a d t s it ev h ch e re e r e r s ti m o n n ae e sd w si ia g. n- l e ro d uc la e t t sS e o s t s c hu a o e n n s t hn u in are suv d ei v a, o ll w r iv . a ig y nN sr g a i n k e bc nyv y o wi n i t ns h .g e d , V e st it ce r i r a n m dit ic i - sn l -r a- ce ed dulous, she
t a a o mBlo n fl y de s m p tnH Y t hu d eou o n eb ri uwz s ylz 'e c i l l m c lo e t i nw st ot e ecy i st n re’l th . l s r ij eoe t sy pH i n o p pe g aplo t re o ul h n oi lw a ic ua ste r n t g e r d lei r a a a .tn c t n .v t e d. i sae . o trs a n t o in ni u eg tn ntda eodt t r i r eo y shn W C t e ii r niela n?l gn c d i ol ny e’s sudden m oic d a I n fsgoe i l n s r e t haA Rt c hn ip n en ge o lt o hn d d iv o s ar P ha . b e a a ae e c dr v lt i e v T fs Ga v e eil W ecu h n rr .a t .o yeG .t uarpe n rct ru eh p e !M a, ar ’ gsco Ac eoo e h wn n’ o n s ca f ne I os s r ael m t a m hb.n o id pf e si ls a ’f t es n sh ro i or e yo t in p cis l,l ha a sn t na od a s re, n y d f g o ot r eh s e M do oo wn n t v t o hc hh o fi io d s e o em v w t lI Aphn o e ao o n etir cr B wt o d J as er a e f r u, b atr o rh s s r oec io t ta ,s ro o n t bn V d a ih mf nri i c w ed ge i. ml x p.e er . o o n a a tp d lt rs ae u e t l, l r er lf t a d s ih t de wh o .ea eim h f t p s o, t ha as R h a eil i sn cee p hd oe a a sc r r tas —w r -tnu o hi l g .lr .p r ai .n narv rgo ti e -v s it nors, among
ISBN 1-56280-033-7 i $9.95 ISBN 1-56280-051-5 $9.95 ISBN 1-56280-034-5 $9.95
54
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstøre News
By Nan Cinnater thriller! The Children of Men ($22, 0-0679-41873-3,
Now Voyager, Provincetown, MA Knopf, March) sounds very interesting. In the year
2021, all males are infertile and humans will soon die
I'm terrifically pleased to be contributing some- out, unless an Oxford historian and “an unlikely
thing to FBN, since it has contributed so much to my group of revolutionaries” can effect great change.
(mental) health and well-being as a bookseller. I'm a Hmmnm....
long-time mystery reader who got her first bookstore
experience at Foul Play, the mystery bookstore in New
York City. Now I'm the co-owner, with Diane Johnson,
of Now Voyager, a bookstore in Provincetown, MA.
Our store is three years old, with a dual specialty in
both lesbian/gay books and mysteries. We sell lots of
women’s mysteries to feminist customers, so it Sing a Song of Death by Catherine Dain ($3.99,
cse oe lum med n . natural and appropriate for me to take up this 0-515-11057-4, Jove, March). Even though catalogue
copy calls her a “gun-toting, keno-playing, cat-loving
Hardcover mysteries are a very hard sell, so lll P.I.,” this new woman sleuth is more than just a collec-
be concentrating mostly on paperbacks. Also it's eas- tion of gimmicks. Prickly loner Freddie O'Neal is a
ier for us feminist booksellers to keep track of lesbian real contender in the Not-Just-a-Kinsey-Millhone-
and small press releases than mainstream books. So Clone sweepstakes. Don’t be put off by the Nevada
I'll concentrate on mainstream releases which will be, setting, either. Dain eschews mob-connected casino
perforce, mostly not lesbian (though F'll certainly cliches. Lay It On the Line, first in the series, was an
point out any that are). This is an eclectic, verging on engrossing regional private eye novel with strong
accidental, survey of forthcoming books and recent characters. This sequel should be good.
releases which you may have missed. I'd sure like to Zombies of the Gene Pool by Sharyn McCrumb
hear from you all about what you need and want in a ($4.99, 0-345-37914-4, Ballantine, March). Edgar-
mystery column. Do write me with comments at Now winning Bimbos of the Death Sun was a riotous
Voyager, 357 Commercial St., P.O Box 551, Province- parody of SF/fantasy cons and fen in the form of a
town, MA 02657. whodunit. Zombies has the same characters and
It’s old news now, but be sure not to miss Blanche formula, and will be very funny if it’s even half as
on the Lam by Barbara Neely ($4.95, 0-14-017439-7, good. The only problem is where to shelve it, as it
Penguin, Feb.)! This is a strong shot of African-Amer- will appeal the most to folks who know the SF scene.
ican, feminist consciousness wrapped in a nifty, In April, Sharyn McCrumb will have something
twisted mystery. Great characters, especially the won- completely different and of much wider appeal—the
derful heroine, Blanche, who's a domestic worker. paper release of The Hangman’s Beautiful Daugh-
Really, this belongs in every feminist bookstore! ter ($5.50, 0-451-40370-3, Onyx), a novel of psycho-
And, as everyone knows by now, the new P.D. logical suspense set in Appalachia. The hardcover
James mystery isn't a mystery, but a futuristic reviews were spectacular, indicating a strong feel for
55 March/April 1993
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
the region, the culture, and especially Appalachian
women. This should cross over to non-mystey read-
an erotic mystery ers, if the cover blurb by Mary Higgins Clark doesn’t
which probes turn them off.
Murder on the Iditarod Trail by Sue Henry
($4.99, 0-380-71758-1, Avon, March). Although it fea-
tures a male Alaskan state trooper as hero, this is
notable for its unique setting (the world’s most fa-
mous dog-sled race) and great hardcover reviews. The
New York Times Book Review called it Daz-
zling....An adrenaline-pumping debut.” While in
Alaska, be sure to pick up on recent releases A Fatal
Thaw ($4.99, 0-425-13577-2, Berkley) and A Cold Day
for Murder by Dana Stabenow, which introduced
Aleut Kate Shugak, a former lawyer with the Anchor-
age D.A.'s office, now a freelance investigator. Daily
life in the Alaskan bush seems authentically detailed,
and Kate is a unique, truly tough heroine surrounded
SMOKESCREEN by interesting characters. A Fatal Thaw opens with a
long, excruciating description of a shooting spree
which might be hard on your most squeamish
a novel by customers (like myself), but both are highly recom-
lynette prucha mended.
Following Jane by Shelley Singer ($4.50, 0-451-
An erotic Lesbian mystery probing the dangers 17523-9, Signet). Some years ago, Shelley Singer wrote
of counterfeit passions and the hard-boiled a series of four or five genial mysteries about an ama-
women who thrive on them. Mercedes Martini teur male private eye named Jake Sampson and his
is lured into an intricate web of deception from sidekick, a lesbian carpenter. Here she begins a new
downtown taxi-dancing joints to underground series about a female sleuth/schoolteacher named
lesbian bars as she searches for her actress Barrett Lake and her sidekick, a “gruff,” professional,
friend» Mona Lisa who has disappeared or male private eye. With a paperback original you never
perhaps been murdered. know, but it’s likely to be likeable.
Pages: 256 Death and Taxes by Susan Dunlap ($4.99, 0-440-
ISBN: 1-878533-01-0 21406-8, Dell, April) features Berkley policewoman Jill
Price: $10.95 Smith in a mystery about the murder of an I.R.S. agent.
Dunlap usually displays a certain tolerance and inclu-
siveness in her Berkeley settings. This is the more
Clothespin Fever Press popular of her two series; they sell pretty well in our
store.
Backhand ($4.99, 0-553-29627-2, Banta), which
came out in Jan., is Liza Cody's best ever, and that’s
saying a lot! English operative Anna Lee was an
March/April 1993 56 Volume 15 Number 6
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
early entry among professional women investiga- plotted series with a thoroughly competent, indepen-
tors and remains one of the best. In Backhand, she dent heroine over 50 (and over 6 feet tall). The others
crosses the Atlantic to track a kidnapper in the Flor- are Dead in the Scrub, The Unexpected Corpse, and
ida keys, but nothing is ever as it seems. Further Deservedly Dead. By the third in the series, her rug-
good news is that Bantam is re-issuing all the Anna ged individualism was getting a little tiresome and
Lee novels, Dupe, Bad Company, Stalker, and sometimes uncomfortably conservative, but she’s still
Under Contract. (Rift by Liza Cody is not part of the a strong, believable heroine.
Anna Lee series.) If you have serious mystery fans
who will buy hardcovers, consider Cody’s newest,
Bucket Nut ($18.50, 0-385-46776-1, Doubleday), in
which she introduces Eva Wylie, female wrestler
cum security guard.
Some other recent releases which you may have
missed: For “Murder She Wrote” fans, you might want to
It would beeasy to miss A Grave Talent by Laurie pick up Murder Observed by Eleanor Boylan ($3.99,
R. King in hardcover ($19.95, 0-312-08804-3, St. 0-8041-0812-9, Ivy) and its predecessor Working Mur-
Martin's Press), which came out in February. The cat- der, both featuring 68-year-old widow Clara
alogue and jacket copy alluded to a “secret” inthe life Gamadge in elegant but fast-paced, intricately plot-
of homicide detective Casey Martinelli, but it won't be ted, contemporary cozies. Back in the ‘40s and 50s,
a secret for long to your customers. Yes, folks, this San Elizabeth Daly wrote a series of classic mysteries
Francisco policewoman is a (gasp) lesbian. Aside from about publisher Henry Gamadge and his wife Clara.
the unfortunate device of keeping the heroine's gay- Boylan is Daly's niece and she has picked up the
ness “secret” through half the book, this is a smart, family torch without stumbling.
gripping police procedural about tracking down a Lastly, be sure to get in your orders for J is for
child killer. It also has a lot to say about women artists, Judgement by Sue Grafton (S21.95, 0-8050-1935-9,
genius and madness — worth recommending to les- Henry Holt). Publication date is May 5, but it may
bian detective fans. ship earlier. And of course Grafton’s I will be coming
Death and the Delinquent by B.J. Oliphant in paperback.
($3.99, 0-449-14718-5, Fawcett) features the increas-
i Mn cg Cly li n tc ou cr km . u d Tg he iso n l iy s , t hm ei d fd ole u- ra tg he d i nr a n a c h we er l l -S wh ri ir tl te ey n, well- IlPlusatrratiaonds ibyg Ymani B atPteauu bfrlomi s Thhe i Dnykge .D et ecOtor,
satisfying.” —Washington Post Book World
evocative of the way we live now. .
mystery.” — The Advocate
— Washington Post Book World
ta Little, Brown and Company
57 March/April 1993
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsSOJOURNER TRUTH Now in paperback!
Slave, Prophet, Legend WOMEN’S WORK
CARLETON MABEE IN THE WORLD ECONOMY
“An invaluable contribution to our understanding of EDITED BY NANCY FOLBRE, BARBARA BERGMANN,
[Truth’s] public life and her relationship to the BINA AGARWAL, AND MARIA FLORO
Ar be omf to her r m ic aca . a .m d.w eo miv ll ie cm ss te in am nts du l a o ntf e o n n l ai ci vn ae de lt eye m e n id ct i ssh c - u ic nse s tn i eot rnu esr s y t ea dm o in ng the A e fc en o m n ai om lm e p i cr la e b s s os ci rhv oe i l na g r s a tht hh ip ee ,r i gn a lng o bd a o lf a e rt ch oe nve e o a mm li yno .gst or ve ec re vn it e w f e om finist
—hi Jst eo ar ny H o uf m er za ,c e A r ue tl ha ot rio n os f i n G i ft th se oU fn i Pt oe wd e rS :tates.” February/ 264 pages ISBN: 0-8147-2616-X/ $25.00 paper
ST hh ae k eW r r Eit ldin rg es s s of Rebecca Jackson, Black Visionary, New in the Women’s Classics series!
MISBayN/: 03-2801 4 p7a-g54es8/4 - 82/0 $i3ll5u.s0t0r a tciloonths “Reveal[s] G tE hN eE R auA dL a c iE oD uI sT O dR iv: e rJ sA itN yE T o f T O wD oD men’s
NO PRIEST BUT LOVE imaginations before feminism.”—The Observer
The Journals of Anne Lister from 1824-1826 DOROTHY WORDSWORTH
E TD hIT eED CBY u t H tE iL nE gNA EW dH gIT eB :R E LAD esbian Life and Literature series ES De Il Te Ec D t Bio Yn Ps A U f L r Ho Am MI L Tt Oh Ne Journals
W acqil ul a is na tt ei dsf y w it th he L c iu str ei ro s i tt hy r oo uf g h t h /e Km na on wy Mwh yo O b wec name FISeBbNru: a r0y-8/1 4 275-902 5p9a-g6e/s $50.00 cloth
Heart and are eager to learn more about her
revealing life and what it suggests about the history MAUDE
o F ISf e B b Nrs ue : x a ru 0y -a 8l /i 1t 4 y 2 7. 7 -50 0 7p 7a -g Xe /s/ $ 13 47 . 9 i 5l l u ps at pr ea rtions/ 1 map C OHR NIST IN A S IR SO TSSE ETT RI HOODS anD A WOMAN’S
ISBN: 0-8147-5076-1/ $45.00 cloth THOUGHTS ABOUT WOMEN
J Tu Hst E in A t Nim Ce H Ofo Rr M Oo Fth e r M’s Y D a y L! IFE D EDIN ITA EH D M AU NL DO C WK I T C HR A AI NK INTRODUCTION BY ELAINE SHOWALTER
Middle Class American Mothers AISpBrNil:/ 0 2-85104 7p-a7g4e4s2-3/ $50.00 cloth
and Daughters, 1880-1920
LINDA W. ROSENZWEIG Now in paperback!
“Extremely useful to scholars and teachers of THE CONQUEST OF ROME
women’s history and family history.” MATILDE SERAO
—Laurie Crumpacker, Simmons College EDITED BY ANN CAESAR
AISpBrNil:/ 0 -382104 7p-a7g4e3s8/- 5 /2 4 $ 3il5l.u0s0t r actloiotnhs M ISBar Nc :h / 0 - 82 15 40 7 -p 7a 9g 6e 4s -6/ $17.95 paper
ISBN: 0-8147-7955-7/ $50.00 cloth
THE FREUDIAN MYSTIQUE
Freud, Women, and Feminism CASSANDRA AnD
SAMUEL SLIPP SUGGESTIONS FOR THOUGHT
a“ nT dh i s m i us l t ia d imtr eu nly si o nre am l a tr ok a tb hle e b coo ro ek ., .. f i an sct ie nr ad ti is nc giplinary F EL DO ITR EE DN C BE Y N MIG AH RT YI N PG OA OL VE EY
r anea dd i n ang .. . ea x cc eu lll et nur t a l o vh ei rs vto ier wy oo ff fp es myc ih no isa tn a l wy rt ii tc i n t gh .”ought M ISBar Nc :h / 0 - 82 15 40 7 -p 5a 7g 7e 5s -8/ $17.95 paper
—Marianne Horney Eckardt, M.D. ISBN: 0-8147-5773-1/ $50.00 cloth
MISBarNc:h /0 - 8218487 -p7a9g6e8s-9/ $35.00 cloth THE HISTORY
OF LADY SOPHIA STERNHEIM
NEW YORK UNIVERSITY PRESS SOPHIE VON LA ROCHE
EDITED BY JAMES LYNN
| 70 WN Te eaw ls:h i (nY 2g1o tr 2o)k n, 9 9N S8qY -u2, a 5r 71 e50 0 S1 °o 2 u Fthax: (212) 995-3833 F I IS Se B Bb N Nru : : a r 0 0y - -8 8/ 1 1 4 4 2 7 71 - -86 87 7 7 7p 5 4a - -g 4 6e / /s $ $1 57 0. .9 05 0 p cla op te hr
58 Volume 15 Number 6
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
BOOKks in Canada:
By Penny Goldsmith Cynthia Floods latest collection of short stories,
My Father Took a Cake to France, is as intriguing as
Vancouver: There’s a new anthology published its title. The title story won the prestigious Journey
by Red Deer College Press called Kitchen Talk: Con- Prize for Fiction last year, and the rest of the collection
temporary Women’s Prose and Poetry, edited by lives up to the honour. Flood, a feminist and a political
Edna Alford and Claire Harris. It’s an interesting activist, has a sense of compassion and a strength of
theme, and collects such notables as the Margarets character development that makes the stories hit home
(Laurence and Atwood), Emily Carr, Maria Campbell, in the heart. $13.95 pb, 0-88922-310-6. Talonbooks, 201-
and Joy Kogawa, among others. $15.95 (US); $18.95 1019 E. Cordova, Vancouver, BC V6A 1M8. Distributed
(Can) pb, 0-88995-091-1. Red Deer College Press (56 by University of Toronto Press.
Ave. & 32 St., Box 5005, Red Deer, ALTA Canada T4N
5H5). IN, Bookslinger, BookWorld. ad
Still centered around the kitchen table is Barbara
Sapergia’s play, Roundup. The setting is Saskatche-
wan in the mid-eighties, a land battered by several
years of drought and poor prices. The play revolves Talon has also reissued Audrey Thomas’ first
around a family who is trying to cope with their own novel Mrs. Blood, of which the author has said,
and their neighbours’ situation: the very real threat to “Women are at last beginning to talk about their bod-
the family farm. $7.95 pb, 1-55050-041-4. Coteau. IN. ies, not only among themselves, but in print. When I
Sheila Watson is a respected Canadian writer, began writing Mrs. Blood, this was not the case. So
and the author of the Canadian classic The Double many women have come up to me and said, ‘Yes, I've
Hook. McClelland & Stewart has just published Deep been through that too—a messy miscarriage, a still
Hollow Creek, written in the 1930s and published birth, a bad abortion, but I never really talked about
for the first time. It’s the story of a teacher in the it...” $15.95 pb, 0-88922-319-X.
Caribou country of British Columbia and is a pow- Also of interest from Talon is Jovette
erful portrait of a time, place and community in the Marchessault’s play The Magnificent Voyage of
poverty-stricken 1930s. $14.99 pb, 0-7710-8823-X. Emily Carr ($11.95 pb, 0-88922-314-9) and a triptych
OM NcC Tl e Mlla 5n Gd 2& E 9 S .tewart, 481 University Ave., Toronto, o Cf e n tt rh er e e s p an no sv e tll was o b gy e n eM raa tr iy o n sB u ar n ds e cc aa dll ee d a p C aren t t r ae s/ C se en enter.
from the perspectives of different characters of the
Penny Goldsmith has been involved in the Canadian pub- three novellas. Throughout, there is a gradual move-
vli as rh ii on ug s w smor al ld l pf uo br l i sa hlm ero ss t i n 2 0 b oy te ha r Os. n tS ah re io h aa ns d ,w o nr ok wed , if nor am s e n tt h e o f u n c sph oar ila ec dt e r ns e i gf hr bo om u r A tm o e r ti hca e t no o r tw hh ,a t C ai ns a dp ae .rceived
British Columbia, which has been her home for the past 15 $15.95 pb, 0-88922-309-2.
years. She is the owner of Lazara Press, a literary publishing A few more collections of interesting looking fic-
eh ro au ts ie n g i n s i nV ca en c 1o 9u 8v 2e .r, British Columbia which has been op- t lii so hn e: d T bel yl T Ta ul re n sS ti og nn es ib sy d eJ sa cn ri ic be e d W bi ylli a tm hs eo n p, u ba ln id sh ep ru b a- s
Volume 15 Number 6 59 March/April 1993
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
“an innovative feminist mix of poetry, prose, criticism She explores how women who are nomads, half-
and visual images [which] uncovers the role of gender castes, immigrants or in love create and define space,
and politics in writing, cultural violence against place, and identity on their own terms and not the
women and the complexities of female desire and sex- terms set out by culture or prejudice. And she is clear
uality.” $12.95 pb, 0-88801-159-8. Turnstone, 607-100 about who her reader is: “I shan't call you reader. One
Arthur St., Winnipeg, MAN R3B 1H3. IN. who reads, hah! That’s so undeclared. Blank as a daft
blue form: ‘Resident of?’ ‘In the Dominion of?’ ‘Port of
Embarkation/Disembarkation?’ ‘Destitute-Festitute?
Blue muscle of power. Generic. Between you and me,
there is no glint of a badge. Badges are razor sharp.
Between you and me, the ink quivers.” $10.95 pb,
Jancis M. Andrews’ stories are called Rapunzel, 0-920897-25-8. NeWest Press (#310, 10359-82 Ave., Ed-
Rapunzel, Let Down Your Hair; the book is de- monton, ALTA T6# 1Z9), IN, Bookslinger.
scribed by Cacanadadada Press as “allowing us to (Another magazine of interest to South Asian
glimpse the extraordinary pains and passions that readers and published in Vancouver is Ankur, which I
simmer beneath the surface of so-called ordinary first talked about in this column a year ago. The mag-
men and women.” $12.95 pb, 0-921870-13-2. azine describes itself as “A quarterly magazine about
Cacanadadada Press, 3350 W. 21st Ave., Vancouver, art, literature, culture, social and political issues....”.
BC V6S 1G7. IN. $3, PO Box 67681 Stn. O, Vancouver, BC V5W 3V2.)
How to Saw Wood with an Angel by Gertrude Himani Bannerji, a well-known Toronto poet,
Story is the author’s latest collection of “observations, critic and lecturer has a new collection of essays out
philosophical musings and uproarious anecdotes called Writing on the Wall: Essays on Culture and
[proving] once again that she is part angel, part lum- Politics. They examine the manifestations of resis-
berjack and a very fine writer.” $12 pb, 1-895449-02-2. tance, revolution and change (including feminism) in
Thistledown Press, 633 Main Street, Saskatoon SASK theatre and poetry. The cultures examined in detail
S7H 0J8. IN. are India (through its theatre) and Canada (through
I went to a reading last week sponsored by its new poetry). $14.95 pb, 0-920661-30-0. Tsar Publi-
Rungh, a new “South Asian Quarterly of Culture, cations, PO Box 6996 Stn. A, Toronto, ONT M5W 1X7.
Comment and Criticism.” Issue #3 has several arti- IN. But for the reading Bannerji read a powerful
cles specifically of interest to women readers, includ- poem about her mother from an unpublished manu-
ing an article on Women in Video and an interview script. The author's poetry is available from SisterV-
with Akesh Gill, the female protagonist in The Burn- ision Press: Doing Time, $9.95 pb, 0-920813-01-1. IN,
ing Season, who talks, among other things, about the BP, Bookslinger. Bannerji’s poetry is also featured,
stereotypes that white interviewers generally have along with Suniti Namjoshi and others, in The Geog-
about South Asian families and women’s role in raphy of Voice: An Anthology of South Asian Cana-
them. $5. (US and Canada), ISSN 1188-9930. Rungh dian Literature, $19.95 pb, 0-920661-27-0. Tsar
Cultural Society, Station F, Box 66011, Vancouver, BC Publications.
V5N 5L4, (604) 876-2086. The magazine is distributed
in the States through Ubiquity, 607 Degraw St;
Brooklyn NY 11217; 718-875-5491 and Fine Print,
6448 Highway 290 E., Ste. #B104, Austin TX 78723-
1038; 512-452-8709.
The reading included the work of South Asian Another reading the same weekend featured
women writer Yasmin Ladha. Lion’s Granddaughter Yvonne Vera, whose book of short stories, Why Don’t
and Other Stories is a sophisticated and sometimes You Carve Other Animals, is also published by Tsar
very funny collection of writing drawing on the Publications. The stories are set in white-ruled Rhode-
author's experiences as a child growing up in Tanza- sia of the seventies and tell the struggle to survive of
nia and as an Indian-Muslim immigrant to Canada. See Canadian Books, page 127.
March/April 1993 60 Volume 15 Number 6
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
L
By the next issue, we'll have the winner of the Baen), of Tamai, from a hidden city high in the Hindu
second annual James Tiptree Memorial Award, for Kush, who is sent by the city’s wisewomen into the
gender-bending f and sf published in 1992. Good British Raj in search of rifles. Estranged from her clan
news is that a U.S. edition of the 1991 co-winner, both by her inability to bear children and by her
Gwyneth Jones's White Queen, will be published in contact with the outside, she again finds herself in
June by Tor Books (in hardcover). English company, trying to fathom the mysteries of
the Chin Empire. 06/93
ACE
Damia ($5.99 pb, 0-441-13556-0) and Damia’s A
Children ($22.95 cl, 0-399-13817-X, Ace/Putnam),
both by Anne McCaffrey. The sequels to McCaffrey’s
popular The Rowan (Damia is the Rowan’s daughter, Hunting Party, by Elizabeth Moon ($5.99 pb,
whose telepathic powers surpass her mother’s) these 0-671-72176-3). The author of the much-praised fan-
combine romance with space-operatic adventure. Mc- tasy trilogy beginning with Sheepfarmer’s Daughter
Caffrey isn’t breaking any new ground, but she tells a turns to space with this one, in which a career mili-
good story. tary starship captain, drummed out of the service,
The Castle of the Silver Wheel, by Teresa finds herself in a not-so-cushy position as a rich
Edgerton ($4.99 pb, 0-441-09275-6). This begins a new lady’s interstellar chauffeur. 07/93
high-fantasy trilogy, set on the same world as her
Green Lion trilogy, a retelling of Arthurian legends. BALLANTINE/DEL REY
The protagonist (surprise!) is a young nobly born and Ammonite, by Nicola Griffith ($3.99 pb, 0-345-
wed woman with a talent for Wild Magic. 37891-1). Missed connections delayed this one’s arrival
BAEN BOOKS nin e x tm y is s um ea , il b bo ux t, fa on rd nn oo ww : cI' am rr yt e a ir t!i n g A s t h a r o ru eg suh l t i t o. f M ao r ve irus
Taminy, by Maya Kaathryn Bohnhoff ($4.99 pb, that kills all the men but only 20 percent of the women
0-671-72174-7). I was disappointed by the resolution who contract it, all the residents of Grenchstom’s Planet
of Bohnhoff’s first novel, The Meri ($4.99 pb, 0-671- ("Jeep" in interstellar slang) are women. An earth an-
72115-1, Baen), in which Meredydd, who had fought thropologist risks her life and safety to be assigned
every step of the way for the right to study magic, was there. The writing is fine, the vision thoughtful, the
for her reward assumed into goddess-head. That as- novel one of the very few that uses the vast potential of
sumption, though, released Taminy, Meredydd’s the genre to explore essential lesbian and feminist
long-ago predecessor, to walk the earth again in experience.
human form and redress a number of wrongs, includ-
ing the subjugation of women. Promising! 06/93 CARROLL & GRAF
Changeweaver, by Margaret Ball ($4.99 pb, 0- The Lifted Veil: The Book of Fantastic Litera-
671-72173-9). This continues the story, begun in the ture by Women, Vol. 1, ed. by A. Susan Williams ($28
well-done Flameweaver ($4.99 pb, 0-671-72095-3, c], 0-88184-913-8). With Vol. 2, scheduled for fall/ win-
61 March/April 1993
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
ter 1993, this was originally conceived as a single Author Delarivier Manley (1663-1724) was ar-
anthology. The hefty (almost 600 pages) first part is rested after The New Atalantis (price n/a, cl, 0-8147-
heavy on ghost stories. As a whole, wrote reviewer 5478-3) was first published in 1709; the work is a
Gary K. Wolfe in Locus, it’s “an important point of powerful allegory satirizing the sexual and political
reference for anyone seeking to trace the history of intrigues of the English court. She counted Jonathan
women’s literature,” though limited by some of the Swift among her friends. Rosalind Ballaster edited
editor's choices: minority writers are poorly repre- and provided the introduction.
sented, all works had to be written in English, and OVERLOOK PRESS
fairy tales were virtüally ignored.
Correspondence, by Sue Thomas ($19.95 cl, 0-
DAW BOOKS 87951-480-9). I'm not a big “experimental fiction” fan,
Eluki bes Shahar’s Hellflower trilogy concludes but I'm engrossed in this challenging, nonlinear, but
with Archangel Blues ($4.50 pb, 0-88677-543-4). In comprehensible novel. The narrator creates characters
April we'll see about Mercedes Lackey’s influence on and scenarios for customers to experience, rather like
Marion Zimmer Bradley’s prose in their collaborative a high-tech vacation. One character gradually takes on
Darkover novel, Rediscovery (price not available, but a life and realism that her creator is losing.
it’s in hardcover). MZB’s tenth Sword and Sorceress A
anthology is due in June (no price there either, but it’s
mass-market).
THE MINERVA CENTER PANDORA (HarperSanFrancisco)
Baptism of Fire, by Linda Grant De Pauw ($14.95 Naomi Mitchison: A Biography, by Jill Benton ($12
tp, 0-9634895-0-X). The author, a professor of history tp, 0-04-440862-5). Known to sf readers primarily as the
at George Washington University, is the founder of the author of Memoirs of a Spacewoman (1962), Scots-born
Minerva Center, a nonprofit clearinghouse for infor- writer Naomi Haldane Mitchison has led a politically
mation on women and thè military. The novel trans- engaged cutting-edge life, and was still going strong at
lates Navy tradition into a space-faring future less 94 when this book came out last year. Particularly inter-
than a century hence, where gender discrimination is esting for its exploration of women’s roles and choices in
unknown but the all-earth government is monarchical Britain's leftist intelligentsia through the 20th century.
a bn od d ie a s t ai ln l y t h c er o kss n- oc wla nss va in rd tu e- sc .u l It nu r a tl h e “ m ste yr li et o c or fa c y sf” ’ s e m Go- lden PENGUIN/ROC
Age, this one seems longer on technical details than Maze of Moonlight, by Gael Baudino ($4.99 pb,
character or plot but may appeal to readers interested 0-451-45230-5). Most excellent news is the release of this,
in military matters. (The Minerva Center, 20 Granda which follows Strands of Starlight, Baudino’s tale of Mir-
Rd., Pasadena, MD 21122; 410-437-5379.) 05/93 iam, a young woman tortured by the Inquisition and
seeking revenge for rape in Albia, which is like and
unlike late-medieval England and France. The main
6 characters here are a young woman and a nobleman,
both with elven heritage. Baudino also wrote Gossamer
NEW YORK UNIVERSITY PRESS Axe, winner of the 1990 Lammy for f/sf. Count on her
Two titles in this press’s Women’s Classics series work to be refreshingly feminist and pagan in outlook.
are of interest to readers and students of utopian The Architecture of Desire, by Mary Gentle ($19
fiction. New Blazing World and Other Writings c], 0-451-45234-8). Already acclaimed in Great Britain,
(price n/a, c], 0-81 47-1475-7) is by 17th century En- this joins Gentle’s Rats and Gargoyles ($5.99 pb, 0-451-
glish noblewoman Margaret Cavendish, duchess of 45173-2, Roc) on U.S. shelves. She's an excellent writer
Newcastle. The introduction by editor Kate Lilley whose sophisticated, wildly imagincd fantasies, set in
provides a feminist perspective on Cavendish’s his- an alternate-historical England, have earned a strong
torical and literary significance. following in non-f/sf circles as well.
March/April 1993 62 Volume 15 Number 6
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
TOR
ISBN n/a). How often do you get gay/lesbian protag-
Cup of Clay, by Carole Nelson Douglas ($4.99 pb, onists without sacrificing depth of imagination, polit-
0-812-51248-0). I liked many of the ingredients of this, ical sophistication, or literary quality? Not very, so
the first book of The Taliswoman series, especially the don't pass this one up.
contemporary Minnesota journalist who finds herself Fans of the vampire Count St. Germain (among
playing a major role in a strange fantasy world, and whom I number myself, though his adventures are
the band of children cast off for their imperfections inclined to be long-winded) will welcome Chelsea
and left to fend for themselves. The writing, however, Quinn Yarbro’s Darker Jewels ($19.95 c], 0-312-85296-
is distractingly uninspired, and the plucky journalist 7) in April. Here the versatile Count is the king of
and the arrogant local (male) aristocrat are evidently Poland’s envoy to the court of Ivan the Terrible, czar
headed for compulsory romance. So far, Douglas con- of all the Russias.
tents herself with criticizing the other world’s sexism,
rather than using it to critique or otherwise yield new A R
insight into our own society. The Taliswoman trilogy
continues in the December 1992 release Seed upon the
Wind ($19.95 c], 0-312-85147-2). UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO PRESS (Distrib.)
Strange Devices of the Sun and Moon, by Lisa Briefly but favorably noted in a recent issue of
Goldstein ($19.95 c], 0-312-85460-9). The two factions Locus were two books, neither of them new. Haunting
of the Fair Folk battle for supremacy in and around the House of Fiction: Feminist Perspectives on Ghost
plague-prone Elizabethan London; Christopher Mar- Stories by American Women, edited by Lynette Car-
lowe and his literary peers play an important role, as penter and Wendy Kolmar ($28.50 cl, 0-87049-688-3,
does one Alice, a middle-aged widow who has carricd University of Tennessee Press), is a collection of essays
on her late husband’s bookselling business. The au- exploring ghost/supernatural themes in the work of
thor leaves vague one intriguing relationship, be- 19th and 20th century writers, from Sarah Orne Jewett
tween a powerful healer and her midwife assistant. to Charlotte Perkins Gilman to Toni Morrison.
An enjoyable read. The 11 stories in Forbidden Journeys: Fairy Tales
The Door into Sunset, by Diane Duane ($21.95 and Fantasies by Victorian Women Writers, edited by
c], 0-312-85184-7). More than a decade ago, early in her Nina Auerbach and U.C. Knoepflmacher ($27.50 cl,
career, Duane began a projected tetralogy, The Tale of
the Five, with The Door into Fire and The Door into ing to reviewer Gary K. Wolfe, “suggest a whole un-
Shadow. She then took a detour and became a highly derexplored area of fantasy by women, and make a
successful author of Star Trek novels, not to mention strong case for the proposition that women writers
a fine YA trilogy (So You Want to Be a Wizard, etc.). Not used the fairy tale form in a significantly different way
only does Sunset, book 3, meet expectations, it is of from their male counterparts.”
special interest for the relationships among and be-
tween the Five: the two princes are lovers; one is also WOMEN’S PRESS/U.K.
bonded with a fire elemental who can adopt numer- The Incomer, by Margaret Elphinstone ($8.95 tp,
ous forms, human and not; and the warrior woman is 0-7043-4070-4), was first published in 1987 and is now
psychically mated with a dragon. A nongeneric fan- available through InBook. Long after a vaguely
tasy adventure, and a fine read. sketched but drastic ecological and political reckoning
Tor offers several good reasons to be impatient for decimated the world’s population, an itinerant musi-
spring, starting with Melissa Scott's newest, Burning cian, Naomi, winters over in a tiny crossroads village.
Bright ($21.95 cl, 0-312-85502-8), which, like her pre- In sparc, cloquent language that can evoke both epic
vious work, probes the ever-shifting terrain of inter- and the details of rural life, the novel describes the
stellar intrigue, virtual reality, and the politics of sex challenges and realignments that the visitor and her
and power. It’s due in May. music bring to a cautious people deeply and justifi-
Due in July is the paperback reprint of Scott's ably suspicious of change. Recommended, and very
most recent, the excellent Dreamships (price and accessible to those who don’t usually read f or sf. O
63 March/April 1993
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Silicone Breast Eating our Hearts Out
Personal Accounts of Women’s
WIm hap t l a Wn ot m eC n o Nn et er do v toe r Ks ny ow Now Relationship to Food
Edited by Lesléa Newman
b Jy os hF r Fan elk d s tV ea insey, M.D. and t“ h,. a.t th r so uw rrs o uo nf df wth oe m ec nlo ’saks of shame
Vital consumer reading for women relationship with food, offering
considering implants and those stories—some fictional, some
who already have them. Dr. Vasey factual—that are poignant
has served as an advisor to glimpses into this private and
Congress and the FDA. He has also tortured realm. This book is a must
served as expert medical witness in read.”
n inu cm lue dr io nu gs ts hil ei c o $n 7e .3 i m mp ill la in ot n s du oi lt ls a, r —Marcia Germaine Hutchinson,
lawsuit against Dow Corning. author, Transforming Body Image
$ I1 S8 B.9 N5 C 0lo -t 8h 9594-610-6 $ I1 S2 B.9 N5 P 0ap -e 8r 9594-569-X
The Time of Our Lives
Women Write on Sex after 40
Edited by Dena Taylor &
Amber Coverdale Sumrall
Humorous, outrageous, sexy and
sensitive accounts of women with
younger partners, women alone,
women who “come out” at
midlife, women who awaken
sexually in later life, fantasies,
and much more.
$12.95 Paper
ISBN 0-89594-612-2
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Mothers! In a Chariot Drawn by Lions
Cartoons by Women The Search for the Female in Deity
Edited by Roz Warren by Asphodel P. Long
An irreverent, passionate The result of 20 years of research on the
and wickedly funny look at
motherhood by the real experts the wisdom of ancient
- mothers and daughters. goddesses has meaning for
Cartoonists include Nicole our lives today.
Hollander, Roz Chast, Lynn $10.95 Paper
Johnston, Barbara Brandon and ISBN 0-89594-575-4
Cathy Guisewaite.
$8.95 Paper
ISBN 0-89594-611-4
The Dark Goddess : Affairs of the Heart
Dancing with the Shadow Men & Women Reveal the truth
by Marcia Starck about Extramarital Affairs
& Gynne Stern Interviews by Virginia Lee
Women often repress Offers insight into the
certain aspects of their sometimes devastating,
nature because society sometimes liberating
Tre hw isa r ed ms p p oa wss ei rv ie n g b e bh la ev ni do r . of e xex trp ae mri ae rn ic te a l o af f fa an ir.
mythology, personal Interviews detail the chaos,
reflection and ritual activities :/ the magic, the wounds and
helps release repressed the love an affair can bring.
emotions. 1 $10.95 Paper
ISBN 0-89594-621-1
$10.95 Paper
ISBN 0-89594-603-3
March/April 1993
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFlizabeth Bishop Dearest Beloved
Life and the Memory of It The Hawthomrnes and the
BRETT C. MILLIER Making of the Middle-Class
“A solid, thorough record of the Family
life of a matchless poet.” T. WALTER HERBERT
—Richard Wilbur “Herbert’s brilliant excavation of
“The unique combination of gifts Hawthorne family relations
and circumstances that fostered builds to a terrible climax, where
Bishop’s cunning art receive in- domestic tragedy and the loss of
formed, entertaining treatment.” Hawthorne’s creative powers are
—Diane Wood Middlebrook, conjoined. . . . A tour de force.”
author of Anne Sexton —Michael Rogin, author of
$28.00 cloth, 0-520-07978-7, illustrated Subversive Genealogy
The New Historicism: Studies in Cultural
A Life’s Mosaic Poetics
The Laughter $28.00 cloth, 0-520-07587-0
The Autobiography
of Phyllis Ntantala of Aphrodite
PHYLLIS NTANTALA A Novel about Sappho of Lesbos
The widow of writer A.C. Jordan PETER GREEN
and mother of ANC leader Z. Pallo “A beautifully written book ...a
Jordan, Ntantala did not face the woman of strength and qual-
grinding poverty so familiar to ity.”—Marion Zimmer Bradley
other South African blacks. In- “An explicitly erotic modern
stead, her struggle was that of a novel about a mature woman’s
creative, articulate woman seek- struggle for self-determina-
ing fulfillment and justice in a tion against the power of
land that tried to deny her both. Aphrodite.”—Sarah B. Pomeroy
Perspectives on Southern Africa $22.00 cloth, 0-520-07966-3
$13.00 paper, 0-520-08172-2, illustrated
Tradition in a No End to Her
Rootless World Soap Opera and
the Female Subject
Women Turn MARTHA NOCHIMSON
to Orthodox Judaism In this incisive defense of a much-
L NY eN wN i nD A pV apID eM r—A “N Deftly weaves om na sl ti rg an te ed s g he on wr e , s o aN po c oh pim ers ao n v a ld ie -m- Order toll-free 1-800-822-6657.
the literature on religion, moder- dates an essentially feminine per- University of
n rait ry y, wan omd e g ne ’sn d qe ur e s w tsi t h f o rc o n ret le im gip oo u- s s pp lee xct iv ise s u ea sn d o fr e s wp oo mnd es n ’ st o d ec so irm e- s California Press
meaning and family life.” and power by creating strong, Berkeley
— ThL ea u r De yl n aR mic ih csa r d os fo n S, e xa u t anh dor G o ef nder $a 1c 5.t 0i 0v e pa p ef r,e m 0-5a 2l 0e - 0 77c 7h 1-a 7r , a ic llt use tr ras t. ed LNos eAwnge le sYork +
$ 11 93 9. 20 0 N p ata ip oe nr a, l 0 J-5 ew20 i- s0 h7 5 B4 o5 o-5 k, AW win arn der, London o
66 Volume 15 Number 6
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
By Richard Labonte from the writer of the award-winning Maps to Anywhere;
A Different Light Bookstore, San Francisco CA Separate Rooms (Serpent's Tail, $13.99 pb, 1-85242-223-
8, IN/BP) by the late Italian writer Pier Vittorio Tondelli,
There isn't really a “season” as such anymore for about the memory of love, or, in a more classical vein,
lesbian, women’s and gay male titles, so prolific are Parties (Serpent's Tail, $13.99 pb, 0-947757-29-5, BP/IN)
our ọwn presses year-round; but the period between by Carl Van Vechten, who chronicled the point where
year-start and the ABA is markedly busier as far as the white lives intersected with the Black world of 1930s
major presses are concerned. So this month's column Harlem; and a book already available, A Visit Home
theme matches FBN’s: books for Spring. (Simon & Schuster, $20 cl, 0-671-74707-X) by Canadian
First, though, I want to bring to your attention a writer Will Aitken, one of the first gay male novels to
book to which I am particularly close: it’s Between address the topic of incest and family abuse.
Little Rock & A Hard Place (Williams Publishing, 3487
Northwest Yeon Ave, Portland OR 97210, $9.95 pb,
0-9635289-3-9) by Tommi Avicolli Mecca, a short but sy
potent analysis of the relationhip between the les-
bian/gay communities and the Clinton administra- From Alyson, for seekers of breezy fare, there is
tion. Tommi, a former editor of the Philadelphia Gay Silver Saddles by Cap Iverson ($7.95 pb, 1-55583-213-
News, works full-time at A Different Light, writes for X, BP/IN), second in a gay western series (sales of the
first book, Arson!, took me by surprise); Without Sanc-
ical perspective a strong commitment to gender, race tion ($8.95 pb, -218-0, BP/IN) by J.R. Roberts, a 19th
and class issues. He wrote the book in less thana month Century romance; and a more serious novel, about
after the election, since the publisher was aiming for interracial romance and the pressures of race hatred,
late February publication — so in addition to some Fragments That Remain ($19.95 c], -218-0, IN/BP) by
emphatic thoughts on what Clinton owes us, expect a Steven Corbin.
book which is unusually fresh. Distributed by Ingram Another book I am especially close to, from the
and Baker & Taylor. Other upcoming titles with merit: Alyson Spring list, is The Unfinished ($9.95 pb, -217-
2) by Jay B. Laws. Jay won the first-novel contest
Gay Fiction which staff of A Different Light judged a couple of
Either just out or due by June: The Dreyfuss Affair years ago (with his suspense novel Steam) and he
(HarperCollins, $12 pb, 0-06-097559-8) by Peter became a good friend of many on staff. He finished
Lefcourt, a light summer read about an interracial love this second book just weeks before he died, late last
affair between two big-league baseball players; The year; it’s about a man, knowing he’s facing death,
Mother's Glass ($13 pb, 0-00-647399-7) by Vancouver arranging from beyond the grave for someone to fin-
author David Watmough, an insightful novel about ish what he’s left undone.
family relationships; The Liar (FSG, $22 c], 0-939149-82- And also: The Night G.A.A. Died (St. Martin's,
6) by Stephen Fry; A Year of Rhymes (Viking, $20 cl, $8.95 pb, 0-312-09353-5) is an historical mystery set in
0-570-84732-1) by Bernard: Cooper, another novel of the early days of New York gay lib, by Jack Ricardo;
family (and a book so beautifully. written you'll ache) and Show Me the Way to Go Home (8.95 pb, 09387-
67 March/April 1993
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
X), described by editor Michael Denneny as an Auntie Poetry
Mame kind of delight. Two poetry offerings, new in paper this spring:
Unending Dialogue: Voices From an AIDS Poetry
Workshop (Faber & Faber, $9.95 pb, 0-571-19804-X),
sv edited by Rachel Hadas; and The Man With Night
Some New Nonfiction: uS nw se ea nt ts im (F eS nG ta, l , $ 9 i n sp pb i, r a t0 i- o3 n7 a4 l- 5 w23 o8 r1 k- 9 ) o n b y f r T ieh no dm s aG nu dnn, an
Esther Newton has broken new historical ground death by one of the finest gay male poets.
with the upcoming Cherry Grove & Fire Island (Bea-
con, $24 cl, 0-8070-7926-X), a study of 60 years of gay Theater
and (yes) lesbian life among the dunes; and, in the same A theater book being widely anticipated — it’s
geographical location, Dark Wind: A True Account of awfully rare for people to order a playscript before
Hurricane Gloria’s Assault on Fire Island (St. Martin’s, seeing a play, but it’s happened with this one — is
$21.95 c], 0-312-09311-X), which is more than a windy Tony Kushner’s Angels in America: A Gay Fantasia
tale — it’s described as a John McPee-ish blend of his- on National Themes (Theatre Communication
tory, sociology, anthropology and personal narrative. Group, $12.95 pb, 1-55936-061-5/ $24.95 cl, -060-7).
Also look for the paperback of Eric Marcus’s This is just part one of Kushner’s epic seven-hour
highly readable oral history Making History (Harper- work, by the way; “Perestroika” will probably appear
Collins, $14 pb, 0-06-092222-2). It’s due in June; that’s next season. Two other titles to consider are Larry
also the month for a paper edition of Paul Monette’s Kramer’s The Destiny of Me (Plume, $9 pb, 0-452-
National Book Award-winning Becoming a Man ($12 27016-2), his follow-up to The Normal Heart (see
pb, -250724-9), his autobiography about the years be- below), and Falsettos ($10 pb, -27072-3), William Finn's
fore coming out. A social study worth shelving, too, is Broadway success about two gay men, their son, and
Richard Parker’s Bodies, Pleasures, and Passions: family.
Sexual Culture in Contemporary Brazil (FSG, $15 pb,
0-8070-4103-3), which deals extensively with homosex-
uality. Among the many new AIDS titles, the practical
diet and treatment book Immune Power (St. Martin’s,
$18.95 c], 0-312-09312-8) is pricey but worthwhile. Plays don't normally turn big, or even small,
There are two books in a military vein, particu- profits, but stores looking to set up a core gay male
larly timely as Bill Clinton wrestles with the military drama section with any sales potential should con-
leaders of the country: the long-awaited Conduct Un- sider these titles: Making Out: Plays by Gay Men
becoming (St. Martin's, $26.95 cl, 0-312-09261-X) a (Coach House, $16.95 pb, 0-88910-34-4, IN/BP), ed-
lengthy, engaging look at instances of military homo- ited by Robert Wallace, containing the work of Cana-
phobia and discrimination from the Second World dian writers; The Normal Heart (Plume, $8 pb,
War up through Desert Storm by Randy Shilts, the 0-452-25798-0) by Larry Kramer; Bent (Samuel
author of The Mayor of Castro Street and And the Band French, $4.95 pb, 0-573-64031-9) by Martin Sherman,
Played On; and Torn Allegiances: Story of a Gay always asked for by anyone interested in Nazi treat-
Cadet (Alyson, $9.95 pb, 1-55583-216-4, IN/BP) by Jim ment of gays; Torch Song Trilogy (Signet, $4.99 pb,
Holobaugh with Keith Hale, his account of how he 0-451-15130-5 or Gay Presses New York, $7.95 pb,
was asked to return his ROTC scholarship money and 0-9604724-0-1, IN); and Untold Decades (St. Martin’s,
was booted out of the ROTC for coming out. $7.95 pb, 0-312-03447-4) by Robert Patrick, a marvel-
There aren't many books these days that are truly ous seven-decade look at gay life. After that, a collec-
original. One such is The Corporate Closet (Free tion of Oscar Wilde plays (Random House and
Press, $22.95 cl, 0-02-935603-2) by James D. Woods Heinemann have editions), a smattering of Tennessee
with Jay H. Lucas, subtitled “The Professional Lives of Williams, and the Gay Plays series from Methuen,
G bua sy i n eM sse wn o min e n A m ..…e .r ).ica” (obviously, there are no lesbian edsitoedl ibyd M ichsamel Waillcolx , wcillo alll l feorcmt tihoe nbas.i s foOr a
March/April 1993 68
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
By Tee A. Corinne Jensen, Joy Asham Fedoric, Jaune Quick-to-See Smith,
Jeannette Armstrong and Lee Maracle. Especially in-
In my rush to get ready for the Women’s Caucus teresting is Doreen Jensen's comments on art history:
For Art and the College Art Association Conferences “In my language, there is no word for ‘Art.’ This is not
(I'm delivering a paper on “Self-Portraits by Lesbian because we are devoid of Art, but because Art is so
Artists”), I've been thinking about how fragile books powerfully integrated with all aspects of life, we are
about women artists still are. Although more are being replete with it.” $6.95 pb, 1-895640-02-4. Galerie, dis-
published than five or ten years ago, they still fall far tributed by IN and BP.
short of parity, are often poorly distributed,
go and stay out of print, and are hard to find
in used bookstores (small print runs?). Yet,
with the rising interest in academic books
about Lesbian and Gay Studies, I have hopes
for an expanded market and more small, rea-
sonably priced books, perfect for sales in
women’s bookstores.
The current interest in diversity is rede-
fining the parameters of art publishing and
Betty LaDuke, who has long been involved
with these issues, has a new study out: |l
Women Artists: Multi-Cultural Visions,
with a preface by Native American artist
Charleen Touchette. Using material gathered
over a period of ten years, LaDuke combines
research and artwork about others with her
own painted and drawn responses to the dif-
ferent cultures she visited. Areas discussed include If Passion were a Flower by Lariane Fonseca may
India, Borneo, Mexico, and Yugoslavia. Native-Amer- be the lesbian gift book of choice for anniversaries or
ican, Chicana, Japanese-American, African-American very special friends. Produced in Australia, Fonseca’s
and Yugoslav artists are profiled. The book is rich with close-ups of flowers remind me of O'Keeffe’s but with
ideas and illustrations. $16.95 pb, 0-932415-78-4; the sexuality and passion acknowledged. Photogra-
$49.95 c], -77-6. The Red Sea Press, 15 Industry Court, pher Fonseca was born in Bombay, as were Conchita
Trenton NJ 08638. Look for it at IN & BP. Fonseca and Suniti Namjoshi whose poems frame the
New from Caffyn Kelley (who deserves a medal work. All reproductions are in luscious color. Perhaps
for service to women artists), Give Back: First Nations this will be the first art book to win a Lambda Literary
Perspectives on Cultural Practice shares the work of Award. $59.95 cl, 1-875559-06-X. Spinifex Press, dis-
six artists/writers/thinkers: Maria Campbell, Doreen tributed by the US by IN & BP.
69 March/April 1993
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
What You See, by Gail Geltner, is a book of Wimmin x 1 = past, present, future + future
wildly humorous, provocative, sometimes heart- perfect/Wimmin x 1 + 2 = birthrite, liferite, deathrite
wrenching drawings about contemporary life. One of + rebirthrite by contemporary artist Maria Epes doc-
my favorites, called “Double Time,” shows a black uments eight elegant, nature/cycle/ritual-based art
slash of ink dividing into two women’s torsos, one installations in which she explores feminist issues and
does the dishes while the other (using three hands) future visions. Introduction by Arlene Raven. $18.95
works on a computer and answers a telephone. Some pb, 0-9634350-0-0. Poythress Press, distributed by IN.
of the images deal with molestation and family vio- Julia Morgan: Architect of Dreams by Ginger
lence, others with world political and financial issues. Wadsworth is a biography covering the life (1872-
$12.95 pb, 0-929005-29-5. Second Story Press, 760 1957) and 47-year career of a woman who “looked like
Bat Bhurst PSt, T .oro nto, On °tario M5S 2R6, Canada. IN & a nobody” but designed more than 700 buildings,
allowing her clients to determine what the building
would look like. This is a delightful and highly read-
N T able story with many photos, some in color. Although
m recommended as juvenile literature, its serves adults
as a good introduction to Morgan's work. $14.95 cl,
0-8225-4903-4. Lerner Publications.
Presswork: The Art of Women Printmakers is a Two Lives: a Conversation in Paintings and
finely produced and ethnically/racially diverse selec- Photographs pairs the artwork of Georgia O'Keeffe
tion of work by 70 contemporary women artists with with photographs by her husband and dealer, Alfred
essays Which place the images in an historical context Stieglitz. Three essays (two by women) give divergent
and explain the processes used. Many illustrations are views of their relationship. Although expensive, this
in color. $12.95 pb, 1-56466-011-7. Lang Communica- is an elegantly designed and produced book. $40 cl,
tions, distributed by D.A.P./Distributed Art Publish- 0-06-016895-1. HarperCollins/Callaway Editions.
ers, 636 Broadway, RM 1208, NYC 10012. Consuelo Kanaga: An American Photographer
D.A.P.s extensive catalog has an impressive se- by Barbara Head Millstein and Sarah M. Lowe is a
lection of reasonably priced books about women art- long needed study of Kanaga’s (1894-1978) life and
ists such as Alice Neel: Exterior/Interior, $17.50 pb, work. She is known for sensitive studies of African-
1-880593-00-9; Lee Krasner: Paintings from the Late Americans including Langston Hughes and Countee
50s, $10 pb, 0-944680-15-1; Louise Bourgeois and the Cullen, portraits of artists including other women
Nature of Abstraction, $9.95 pb, 0-944680-27-5. photographers, and images of the poor and disenfran-
We'll Understand It Better By and By: Pioneer- chised. She was a friend of lesbian writer Barbara
ing African American Gospel Composers, ed. by Deming and photographed members of the Quebec-
Bernice Johnson Reagon is definitive and includes Washington-Guantnamo Walk for Peace in 1964. The
music and photographs along with a compelling nar- many photos are beautifully reproduced. $35 pb, 0-
rative. Highly recommended. $19.95 pb, 1-56098-167- 295-97228-9. University of Washington Press. O
9; $49.95 c], -166-0. Smithsonian Institute Press.
I know that all the feminist bookstores are already
carrying Dykes to Watch Out For: The Sequel by the
brilliant and hilarious cartoonist, Alison Bechdel, but
I can't resist mentioning it for the sake of other book-
stores who haven't yet learned what a hot item any
book by her becomes. Although she lovingly satirizes
the politically active lesbian community, the compel-
ling characterizations and life-based plots make this
book interesting to a wide range of buyers. $8.95 pb,
1-56341-008-7; $18.95 cl, -009-5. Firebrand. Distributed
by IN.
March/April 1993 70 Volume 15 Number 6
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
SPRING AND SUMMER TITLES AT
ALYSON
AFTERGLOW
More stories of lesbian desire
edited by Karen Barber
With the excitement of new love, the remembrances of past
lovers, Afterglow offers more well-crafted, imaginative, sexy
stories of lesbian desire in the best-selling tradition of Bushfire.
$8.95, trade paper • about 200 pages • ISBN 1-55583-315-2 ° (July)
MELTING POINT
by Pat Califia
No other writer matches Pat Califia’s ability to break through
ptrhoese , w Caallilfsia tuhseas t t hweseo u sltdor i elsi m toi t f lilrets bwiiatnh tsabeoxous a laintdy .t o W crietathe her crisp |
images that will linger long in the imagination.
$9.95, trade paper • about 220 pages ° ISBN 1-55583-162-1 ° (May)
THE LESBIAN SEX BOOK
Ab gyuid e fWor ewonmedn y wh o Clovae s wtomeern | i
Informative, entertaining, and attractively illustrated, here is
the lesbian sex guide for the nineties. Dealing not only with
sex practices but also with related topics such as intimacy,
nonmonogamy, health, and political correctness, The Lesbian
Sex Book offers helpful advice for both the newly out and the
eternally curious.
$14.95, large format trade paper • about 200 pages; illustrated °
ISBN 1-55583-211-3 © (May)
Order from InBook/Inland, Bookpeople, or direct from the publisher. Selected
Alyson titles are available from Ingram and Golden-Lee.
ALYSON PUBLICATIONS
40 PLYMPTON STREET • BOSTON, MA 02118
C 617-542-5679 (Call orders toll-free: 800-8-ALYSON)
71 March/April 1993
Volume 15 Number 6
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsTAHURI THE BAT HADBLUE EYES AND STILL WE RISE
Ngahuia Te Awekotuku Betsy Warland Canadian Feminists
Tahuri is a moving collection of In The Bat Had Blue Eyes poet Organizing For Change
short stories by Maori writer Nga- Betsy Warland mines her mem- Linda Carty
h tiu ti la e T che a rA aw cte ek ro t —uk u T a d he up ri ic t —in g a nt dhe o yr ey ar sf , o r t h et h ae s t o s re ic e r se t sbs e hho if n d h e e tr h e e a or nly e A hon n oi un rc ii nsi gv e w a on mt eh no ’l so g oy r g o af n i ze is ns gays
other young Maori girls coming in Canada, with perspectives
of age in New Zealand. Tahuri is knows. from both theoretical and activist
not inter- Her inci- levels. This collection is unique in
ested in sive skills its attempt to construct an inte-
going delve be- grated analysis of gender, race,
with the neath the
boys, Ta- surface of
huri meaning,
l wike as tch- | : thew peiebrcing
ing the of language which has buried a
big girls, history of incest and sexual abuse
she likes deep in
watch- her psy- The Bat Had Blue Eyes
ing the women dressed in men’s che. This
clothes, and finally Tahuri likes is a jour-
Mirimiri, a ney rich
young in sense,
hw ero sem lf.an like ts em xtue rl el aand c mla as ns a en std s e ix nu a l Cit any a, ia as t fh ee my na ir se
, i f e d d n i t
0$ -1 81 8.9 95 6 1 -p 1b 83-1 p co ae vtic a t e ix o- n o tir og na n i fz oi cn ug s. e sT h po ru imgh a r it lh yi s o nco l Cle ac n- ada,
MRe al re ca hse 1D 9a 9t 3e: wwher re t ihe ter's e SRIMA its conclusions span many borders.
voice $17.95 pb 0-88961-177-7
dominates the telling, probing Release date: May 1993
and prodding the language that
has constrained her,
F Ir no tm e r t nh ae tional Connections until it sets her free. 517 COLLEGE STREET
Series $11.95 pb SUSA x
0-88961-184-X ZR V's pS RE
Release date: May 1993
72
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
SSES
S
Compiled by Carol Seajay with the feminist presses pb, 0-9624626-5-9, May. Astarte Shell Press, P.O. Box
10453, Portland ME 04104. From Inland, Bookpeople,
ASTARTE SHELL PRESS and New Leaf or by direct mail from Astarte Shell.
Keep Simple Ceremonies, edited by Diane Eiker — Astarte Shell
and Sapphire. This book is a collection of rituals cre-
ated by the women of the Feminist Spiritual Commu- The women's
nity of Portland ME (of which Astarte Shell Press is an movement has
outgrowth) over its twelve year history. These rituals
draw from the lives of the women of the Community completely
and acknowledge the sacredness of their experiences. asse you by
They tell our stories, break down our walls and en- hasn't it Jack?
courage us to reach out to others to strengthen our
lives and our world. $12.95 pb, 0-9624626-0204, April.
Death by Crystal by Agnes Bushell. The second
in the series featuring the Maine-based lesbian femi-
nist private detective team of Wilder and Wilson. A
man has been killed with a large amethyst crystal in
the studio of a gay artist and activist. Wilder and
Wilson are hired to find evidence that will exonerate
the studio owner. Their search leads them over south-
ern Maine, unraveling the deceptions knit by drug
cartels, drug enforcement agencies and Maine fishing
people. A light, deftly written and well-plotted mys-
tery set in the fog and rocks of the Maine coast. $8.95
Bookpeople (BP) and Inland (IN) distribute small press
books to bookstores. “BP” or “IN” at the end of an annota-
tion means that the books are available from that distributor.
Both distributors stock a wide range of titles and publishers
of interest to feminist bookstores. If you are a new store or horacek_
Judy Horacek, Life On The Edge, Spinifex.
don't already work with both distributors, drop OIS
and call If nor l a c nat dal o g Bs. ook Company, PO Box 120261, 140 Com- AUNT LUTE BOOKS
merce St., East Haven CT 06512. Order number: 800-243- The Unforgetting Heart: An Anthology of Short
0138 (including Canada and Connecticut). Stories by African American Women, 1859-1992,
Bookpeople, 7900 Edgewater Dr, Oakland CA 94621. edited by Asha Kanwar, $9.95 pb, May, 1-879960-30-3.
Phone: 800-999-4650. Aunt Lute is excited to be publishing a unique collec-
Volume 15 Number 6 73 March/April 1993
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
IN LOVE AND IN DANGER: A Teen’s Guide to Breaking Free of Abusive
Relationships by Barrie Levy, trade paperback, $8.95. Barrie Levy, editor of Dating
Violence, speaks-directly to teens on what constitutes abusive relationships — emotional,
physical, and sexual — and how to break free of them. ISBN 1-878067-26-5
THE CURVE OF TIME by M. Wylie Blanchet, trade paperback, $12.95. This is a
compelling and timeless account of an independent woman, who in the 1920's explored
the coastal waters of Vancouver Island with her children and instilled in them a deep
respect for the native cultures of the region and the natural world. ISBN 1-878067-27-3
DOWN THE WILD RIVER NORTH by Constance Helmericks, trade paperback, $12.95. A
captivating story of a woman and her two teenage daughters who set off on a
wilderness canoeing adventure from the rivers of the Canadian Rockies all the way to the
Arctic Ocean. ISBN 1-878067-28-1
STILL EXPLOSION by Mary Logue, cloth, $18.95. Laura Malloy, a reporter for the Twin
Cities Times, sets out to discover who bombed the Lakeview Family Planning Clinic —
killing the boyfriend of a young patient. Can she discover the culprit before another deadly
bomb is set off? First book in a series of Laura Malloy mysteries. ISBN 1-878067-29-X
ALMA ROSE by Edith Forbes, trade paperback, $10.95. From a gifted new storyteller
comes a warm, funny and endearing tale of lesbian love off the beaten track. Pat Lloyd has
spent her entire life in Kilgore, a small western town right off the interstate. When one
day, Alma Rose, a vivacious and charming trucker, rumbles off the highway and into Pat's
life, changing it forever. ISBN 1-878067-33-8
Seal Press 3131 Western Ave., Suite 410, Seattle WA 98121 (206) 283-7844. To order call Publishers
March/April 1993 74 Volume 15 Number 6
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
tion of beautifully crafted short stories by women that bound, 0-9629532-4-5. 40% discount. No distributors
span a century and a half of African American literary (yet!) Black Angels Press, PO Box 14785, Oakland CA
tradition. Editor Asha Kanwar’s introduction pro- 94614. We're working on a West Coast tour and would
vides the historical background and context for the like to hear from stores that might be interested.
selection of stories by authors as varied as Alice Dun- — Black Angels Press
bar Nelson, Zora Neale Hurston, Toni Cade Bambara
and Wanda Coleman. The famous and less well- SVZ,
known writers included celebrate the rich diversity of
tA uf rr ei c a an n- dA m tie mri ec . a n T h w e o m ane tn h’ os l ow gyri t i in ng cl u a dc er so s ss t o c rl ia es ss , t hcu atl- CLEIS PRESS
have long been unavailable as well as the strikingly Only Lawyers Dancing, by Jan McKemmish,
contemporary. The breadth and quality of its contents $9.95 pb, 0-929416-69-7; $24.95 cl, -70-0. Both thriller
make it a perfect crossover text valuable for classroom and anti-thriller, Only Lawyers Dancing is an intri-
use, for pleasure reading, or for gift-giving. We appre- cately woven tale of two women friends and their
ciate getting initial and/or larger orders. obsessive relationship to crime: Anne Stevens, a
Aunt Lute Books, PO Box 410687, San Francisco policeman’s daughter who abandons her career as a
CA 94141. 415-558- 8116. Distributed by BP, IN, and psychoanalyst to become a criminal attorney, and
Small Press Distribution. — Aunt Lute Books Frances Smith, lesbian, photographer, café artist, and
daughter of a crime boss. Reported Vogue: “Jan
BLACK ANGELS PRESS McKemmish’s first book, A Gap in the Records, became
Quicksand!: African American Lesbian Erotica, a cult favorite: it was a complex political thriller that
poetry by Folisade, is the third book from this rela- played intelligent games with form and plot. This
tively new press. Their first book was a collection of novel of crime, punishment and postcards has a sim-
poetry by African-American writer Abimbola Adama, ilarly intriguing style and substance.
Black Angels’ publisher and editor. The second book In the Garden of Dead Cars, by Sybil
was the 1992 Directory of African American Poets and Claiborne, $9.95 pb, 0-939416-66-2; $24.95 c], -65-4,
Writers. April. In the Garden of Dead Cars does for AIDS
Black Angels will focus on African-American po- what The Handmaid's Tale did for the issue of repro-
etry and there will definitely be more lesbian and ductive rights. The New York Times Book Review says:
lesbian erotic poetry in its future. Current plans in- “Sybil Claiborne has a wickedly accurate ear...” In
clude an anthology of African-American. lesbian erot- The Garden of Dead Cars is as good a novel as The
ica, a 1993 Directory of African-American Poets, Writers, Wall, Cleis’ 1991 release which drew the praise of
and Artists, and a cassette tape of Quicksand. Watch booksellers and critics. But this book is much more
FBN for details! accessible, much easier reading, quicker paced, etc.
Quicksand! is a book of celebrations. Erotic, spir- We expect it to be very easy for bookstore workers to
itual, loving celebrations written for lesbians who sell. In the Garden of Dead Cars is a post-AIDS
know they are blessed, as well as for those women novel set in futuristic New York, a city beset by
who are struggling through uncertainty, fear, and de- scarcities of every kind, a place of burnt-out build-
nial to determine their identity. Delicious erotic po- ings, abandoned streets and junk yards. A sexual
etry, celebrating the ways of a thrice-blessed plague has left all survivors terrified of human con-
African-American lesbian woman. $8. 64 pgs., perfect tact. Sex is a capital crime. In this postmodern Eden
75 March/April 1993
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
celebrates and honors women.
Quicksand!
ISBN 0-9629532-4-5
64 pp S 1/4 x 81/4 $8.00 list. 40 % store discount. Stores pay postage. QUICKSAND:!
ORDER FROM BLACK ANGELS PRESS
P.O. Box 14785
Oakland, CA 94614-2785
510 536-0131
we meet a feminist physician who speaks of nothing literacy. Paul Smith co-edited Men in Feminism. (You
but the past and her daughter, Emma, who dreams can count on Lisa Frank to do an especially good job
of real butter and rebuilt Subarus and is sick of of publicizing this title!)
hearing about life before the plague. In The Garden Distributed by InBook. Booksellers may also
of Dead Cars is about the triumph of sensuality over order from Bookpeople, Ingram, Baker & Taylor,
fear which takes Emma on a journey both danger- Bookslinger, and other wholesalers. Galleys and
ously criminal and filled with self-discovery. Reading copies are available from Felice Newman.
Madonnarama: Essays on Sex and Popular Cul- Cleis Press, PO Box 8933, Pittsburgh PA 15221.
ture, edited by Lisa Frank and Paul Smith, $9.95 pb, 412-937-1555; Fax 412-937-1567.
0-939416-71-9; $24.95 cl, -72-7, May. Madonnarama is — Cleis Press
the hip, progressive, critically incisive version of the
book everyone else is trying to do on Madonna, the EZP
most visible sexual icon in North America. Her exploi-
tation of her own sexuality and that of gays, lesbians
and bisexuals sparks ongoing controversy in both CLOTHESPIN FEVER PRESS
mainstream and alternative media. Everyone’s got Gooseflesh, by Emma Morgan. $7.95 pb, 1-
something to say about Madonna—both for and 878533-06-1. This is the first book of poetry for this
against—especially the stellar collections of critics, lesbian/feminist poet whose work has appeared in
activists and artists who offer new assessments of the the journal Bay Windows and various anthologies. Her
Madonna phenomenon in American culture. Susie poems create a kind of mood that creeps in suddenly
Bright, Pat Califia, bellhooks, Douglas Crimp, Carol and unexpectedly.
Queen, Michael Warner, Cathay Che, Andrew Ross Love Me Like You Mean It, by Leslea Newman.
and more! Lisa Frank is publicity director of Cleis $8.95 pb, 1-878533-14-2. Reprint of a 1987 book of
Press and teaches multiculturalism and the politics of poetry originally published by Herbooks.
March/April 1993 76
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Smokescreen: A Mystery, by Lynette Prucha.
$10.95 pb, 1-878533- 01-0, May. An erotic lesbian mys- In case you haven't already heard, we're pleased
tery probing the dangers of counterfeit passions and to announce that we've moved to Consortium (1045
the hard-boiled women who thrive on them. Merce- Westgate Drive, St. Paul MN 55114). Consortium is on
des Martini is lured into an intricate web of deception PUBNET. We continue to be at Bookpeople, Ingram,
from downtown taxi-dancing joints to underground and other wholesalers, and we are now back at Inland.
lesbian bars as she searches for her actress friend,
Mona Lisa who has disappeared or perhaps been SVA
murdered.
Dirty Money, by Pele Plante. $9.95 pb, 1-
878533-04-5, May. CC Scott turns her vacation into a Our Spring books begin with two in our Cross-
murder investigation after discovering a dead body Cultural Memoir Series that follow the very successful
while beachcombing with her lover Barbara. This I Dwell in Possibility by Toni McNaron and Lion
time it’s not just murder but dirty money—an entire Woman's Legacy by Arlene Voski Avakian. First, the
money-laundering operation and CC is in the mid- silence-breaking memoir of Jo Sinclair (The Change-
dle of it. lings and Anna Teller). The Seasons: Death and Trans-
Clothespin Fever Press, 655 Fourth Ave. Suite 34, figuration ($12.95 pb, 1-55861-057-X; $35 cl, -056-1,
San Diego CA 92101. 619-234-2656. Distributed by BP, April) is the moving story of Sinclair's life-changing
IN and Bookslinger. — Clothespin Fever Press friendship with Helen Buchman, who, at a critical
moment in Sinclair’s life provided the young woman
EIGHTH MOUNTAIN PRESS with a room of her own — and a farm in which to
Between the Sea and Home: Winner of the garden — that made it possible for her to write four
1992 Eighth Mountain Poetry Prize, by Almitra novels in the next 15 years. Another memoir about the
David. $10.95 pb, 0-933377-22-3, June. Linda Hogan making of a writer, Fault Lines ($12.95 pb, 1-55861-
selected this year’s winner from amongst over 500 059-6; $35 cl, 058-8), by poet and novelist Meena
entries. She said: “This is a book that is vital and Alexander (Nampally Road) moves from India to Africa
spare, intuitive. There is great momentum here; one to Britain and the United States. The color line is as
line flows over into the next, one page is drawn important as the sea of languages and cultures that the
further by the other. But what is beneath the lan- child and woman learn to navigate. Writing saves
guage is even stronger, as if the words themselves Alexander's life.
are superimposed over a deep and mysterious real- Many of you have praised the first volume of
ity. The poems are wide-ranging, crossing through Women Writing in India: 600 B.C. to the Early Twentieth
different voices, times, places, and histories, and Century, edited by Susie Tharu and K. Lalita. “Only”
each one touches on something urgent.” The Eighth two years later, and 112 pages larger, the second vol-
Mountain Press, 624 SE 29th Avenue, Portland OR ume is now ready. Women Writing in India: The
97214. 503-233-3936. Distributed to the trade by Con- Twentieth Century ($29.95 pb, 1-55861-029-4; $59.95
sortium Book Sales and Distribution; available also c], -028-6) contains a brilliant pantheon of fiction, po-
from Bookpeople, Bookslinger, Inland, Small Press etry, memoir, and drama, none originally in English,
Distribution, Pacific Pipeline, Airlift (UK and Eu- from over 70 award-winning Indian writers.
rolpae) n andd B)u.ll do g — Book s (ARustrualita hand N ewG Zuea-ndle Monta nA an o Kth ate zr ab no do k V w eri ot nh i c aa Vfo iell lo anw din , g w, ilG l e t b e S m isa sr ut e! d b iy n
March/April 1993
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
a new edition, with a new cover design and interior drinking too much, sleeping with too many men, par-
illustrations by Nicole Hollander, and with a`new tially escaping.by being smart and going to college,
subtitle: What You Should Know (But Won’t Learn in thinking that you might love women and then work-
Class) about Sexual Harrassment and Sex Discrimi- ing very hard for that not to be true, looking back at it
nation ($12.95 pb, 1-55861-071-5; $35 cl, 072-3, May). all and trying to piece together a healthier life. Restor-
— The Feminist Press ing the Color of Roses is incisively written—no sen-
timentality, but great tenderness.
LVZ, Stone Butch Blues, A novel by Leslie Feinborg.
$10.95 pb, 1-56341-029-X. The best parts of editing
books are to experience someone else's world in-
FIREBRAND BOOKS tensely, to expand the limits of what you know, to be
The Black Back-Ups, poetry by Kate Rushin. surprised. Working on Stone Butch Blues has been
$8.95 pb, 1-56341-025-7. Kate Rushin is one of powerful in this way for me. As a lesbian who came
women’s bookstores’ own. A collective member at out of a feminist community, the questions surround-
New Words in Boston for many years, her poetry has ing transgender people have always felt remote. Even
been read and heard widely. The Black Back-Ups is grappling with butch-femme didn’t prepare me. It’s a
her first book, however, and is long overdue. It is gripping read, a sexy book, an eye-opener. I think it
straightforward, accessible, idiomatic—in the will sell big, and should.
author's African American storytelling tradition. Words to the Wise: A Writer's Guide to Feminist
Restoring the Color of Roses, by Barrie Jean and Lesbian Periodicals & Publishers, by Andrea
Borich. $9.95 pb, 1-56341-027-3, April. A book of cre- Fleck Clardy. $5.95 staplebound, 1-56341-032-X, April.
ative nonfiction that is difficult to categorize but great Words to the Wise hardly needs an introduction. I'm
to read. So here you are, an ordinary lower middle- delighted to be issuing the 4th edition (yellow cover this
class Catholic in a dysfunctional family in the 60s, time). How exciting that there are so many women who
BECKY BOHAN WINNI S. WEBBER
of : B cr li at st s ic E alv a n sts u, d ip er s,o f e isssor AIE ser vM iceo r we o m t eh na , n r e pt rh esi er nt -y
v isi ls ai nti dn g o f t h Se a n r te om rio nt ie t G o r e de ok KNS t abin og u t a l tl h eb ir ra n ec xh pe es r, i e t na cl ek as
research at its archaeo- women and especially as
logical excavation. But lesbians in the military.
when a young photo- They tell about living WINNI S. WEBBER
grapher dies, powerful with the fear of discov-
G aur te he ok r i ta in ed s eA nm lise tr i c Ban ritt to e cr hy, a rth ge e dpa i n b eof c a b ue sin eg d ti hs- ey
find out what’s going on. were gay, the witch-
As the investigation hunts. Why they joined,
intensifies, so do Britt’s why they stayed in, what
feelings for Cassie Burk- they love and what they
find intolerable about the military. Timely, petsona!
stories.
ISBN 0-9630822-2-1 ISBN 0-9630822-3-X $9.95
March/April 1993 78
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
continue to find Words an essential resource. The price # KNOWLEDGE, IDEAS & TRENDS, INC.
has gone up to $5.95, but it’s still a bargain. 1in1 OXI NASN 1N gas
Firebrand Books, 141 The Commons, Ithaca NY
14850. 607-272-0000. Distributed to the trade by In-
Book and available through wholesalers.
— Firebrand Books
The
GYNERGY BOOKS C oh fa n Og li dn eg r W Wo or mld es n
Gynergy will be releasing six titles for Fall ‘93 but in Japan ANNE O FREED MSW
is not publishing any titles for Spring ‘93.
HERBOOKS
Unleashing Feminism: Critiquing Lesbian Sa-
domasochism in the Gay Nineties; A Collection of
Radical Feminist Writings. The argument over sado-
masochism seems to have stalemated into “for” and 1-879198-09-6 :
“against,” and the vast number of women who don’t N A G 2 50 p Pp R $1 A7.95 CE SmNisR
think it’s worth all the fuss one way or the other
a pn any dw a y th. e T h sce os pe e e s os fa y ts h, e p o de im scs u, s s ia on nd , s ah no dr t p ls at co er i ie ts ie nx - the đ| wMitAhRIN: s n 300pP $14.00
c vi m tso oim o en l nt , e ct e n ,m ce n e lp la.v o n nir dTr ga o hr n e ry m y e aa nec c n c do hrn t i at t rble i eax q acd ut fk e e wg io rr af t ma rh d d e c a s a t fp i v eo ii e n mnt ra t, y il o ni s a m sn f h mrd i sa ta m on r itriad n sc y ei g s lc ft ao .o nn f a ds In u dm t cm h ue e esr me- ex a soi rs rgt yu ,- | |MY MQUES M 8 1 a D1 P0 n3 Ps0 c1 ,thi -- t 0 ee Bi8 s Et 2 uT e1 Ttro6 7 ol ,5- l ra s0 n C d T5 2 PT 09 ,6u 0r 4n N0: p ,i k Ne
h a e e f i n l d i r b : B I L,
Irene Reti’s “Remember the Fire: Lesbian Sadomas-
ochism in a Post Nazi Holocaust World,” out of print
since 1990, and work by Pat Parker, Anna Livia, D.A.
Clarke, Jamie Lee Evans and others. $9.95 pb,
0-939821-04-4, May. SYLVIA B. GROSSMAN
40% discount 1-9 copies; 42% 10-24; 45% 25 or
more. Okay to mix titles. HerBooks, PO Box 7467,
Santa Cruz CA 95061. HerBooks are also available computer programmer at the dig. Britt and Cassie are
farnomd I ntlahnde, B odokispetorplieb, uBotooksrlisng. er ,— A la mHo e SrquBaroeo,ks d 0-r 9a 6w 3n 0 8 2in 2-t 2o - 1 a , s mp ii dr -a Ml ao rf c h d .anger and intrigue. $9.95 pb,
EZ Lesbians in the Military Speak Out, written by
an active-duty Army mâjor under a pseudonym, is a
timely collection of stories from more than thirty
servicewomen who represent all branches: Army,
MADWOMAN PRESS Navy, Air Force, Marines, and Coast Guard. They
Sinister Paradise by Becky Bohan is suspense/ share their experiences as women and as lesbians in
romance by a talented new writer. Britt Evans, profes- the military—the fear of discovery, the pain of being
sor of classical studies, is visiting the remote Greek discharged because of sexual orientation, the witch-
island of Santorini to do research at its archaeological hunts, and the harassment, juxtaposed against their
excavation. But when a young photographer dies, pride in serving their country. They tell readers why
powerful Greek and American authorities enlist Britt they joined, what they love and what they find intol-
to find out what's going on. As the investigation inten- erable. These are relevant, personal conversations.
sifies, so do Britt's feelings for Cassie Burkhardt, a $9.95 pb, 0-9630822- 3-X, late March.
79
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
[ e l. A s LAite r a-tu r e0 1[ 5 e3 2L. a 5 y0 8M-a3d9w3om-3an4 4P7re;s s , F PaOx B o5x0 869-03, 9 N3o-r8th3b0o5ro. MMAadwoman
, titles are available through Inland, Bookpeople and
SHIS ALWAYS SHE’S ALWAYS Alamo Square Distributors. Order Direct: 40% 11- 25
1 LIKED THE GIRLS books, 45% prepaid; 45% 26+ books, 50% prepaid.
9S8OE BOESTN N ew C boloaksutordesi: a p re paAymlelnet non f ir|s t o9rd3er0, th edn aneyt s. a
K 1-879427-11-7 FEBRUARY 1993 $11.95
Fwouirn npilanygs b py l aJyefwf r aiwgahrdt-. LSFtirs ZA
compassion and strengthens SN
lrauoglhe s r effloerxe s .o lEdspeerc ia lwlyo mapten and NAIAD PRESS
rural women. On April 13 Naiad will release a tenth anniver-
1 “Somebody should organize a sary edition of Curious Wine. The new edition will
s fan club for playwright Claudia sport a new cover by Catherine Hopkins that’s a take-
Claudia Allen Allen.” —Windy City Times off on the old cover that features trees on the ski slopes
above Lake Tahoe where the novel is set. Naiad will
TIMBER CITY do a press run of 25,000 copies of the new edition for
M ASKS a total of 125,000 copies in print. Interestingly enough,
Kieran York Curious Wine’s sales have held steady at about 10,000
1-879427-13-3 APRIL1993 $9.95 | COpies per year. It has been on Naiad’s top ten list
Introducing Royce Madison, every year since it was published. Note new price and
shderifef’sp deuparttmyent di ehaardn ISdBN: $ 9.9s5 opbf, 1-t56s280p-05o3-1k. en ;
I dyke-abouttown Your customers will cheer spring when they see
“Unsoved'c three outstanding entries from authors of proven pop-
TSVOd CIMO mdANS We ularity, plus a most unusual first novel. Catherine
r Ennis’ audience appeal will soar with the return of
blank page and tag an crime lab expert Bernie Hebert (Clearwater), an au-
innocent person,we're thentic lesbian in a believable suspenseful tale set in
accepting a lie. Our inaction the atmospheric cajun country of Louisiana. Bernie's
can put us on the inside of a investigation into a deadly cholera contamination in
mask, lo ok—ing Rout.o i y thec setat e' s Mfishiangd inidsustoryn, a lon gu w ith elon g -tism e pa:r t- :
ner Vi’s indecision about their relationship, plus an
Conf . arlluroingn wotmani nwhog is m orae tiha n waillinig t o Sdistract
Bernie from her anxieties, makes Chautauqua! enter-
BOO 6 CANCER, taining reading. $9.95 pb, 1-56280-032-9.
Constructing Pat Welch's celebrated Berkeley private eye
FOR CHANGE Helen Black finds herself in a veritable jar full of
Midge Stocker, editor pickles in this fourth entry in a highly successful series
f 1-879427-09-5 MAY 1993 $11.95 that gets better with each book. Among other compli-
0 Po wgeErf uml eysstahys acbonofurton tc acnatcioenrs,, HFerleine’sd a c,l ie nist , Fbrroiuegdhat' s to n Hewele n y boyu nexg- p alrotnveerr...And the homi-
dreelsecarsiibnign g f ewaray sa n wd o mtakenin gare cide victim’s family, led by a fierce matriarch, is using
power from cancer. its powerful political connections to muzzle publicity
È ‘ ‘ and Helen’s investigation. A Proper Burial is a sure
£ Third Side Pres bestseller. $9.95 p Abn,d sp1ea-ki5ng6 2of8 b0es-t 0 se3ll3er-s, 7 C.laire McNab’s Under
2250 W. Farragut, Chicago, IL 60625 312/271-3029 | the Southern Cross and Jennifer Fulton's Passion Bay were
March/April 1993 80 Volume 15 Number 6
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
our two biggest sellers of last year. We expect no less for them are based on real events in history. This one tells
Fulton’s Saving Grace, with the same spectacular south of a long-forgotten, yet at the time major event, the
seas as the setting for corporate skullduggery, a plane first women’s flying derby in 1929. The women flew
crash, and torrid romance. Stock up—word of mouth west to east from San Diego to Cleveland (Amelia
will send this super-charged erotic adventure flying off Earhart came in second). Although many of the events
your shelves. $9.95 pb, 1-56280-051-1. are true, the sexual preference of the participants was
“One minute Connie Chung was smiling her ele- never actually documented, but we can enjoy the fan-
gant understated smile and promising to be back in a tasy. $8.95 pb, 0-934678-47-2, May.
moment, and then the TV went out...” No novel in the New Victoria Publishers, PO Box 27, Norwich VT
science fiction category crosses over to all audiences like 05055. New Victoria is currently distributed by Inland,
one set in a post-holocaust-world, and Molleen Bookpeople and Bookslinger, Airlift in Great Britain
Zanger’s highly unusual tale of a small band of female and Europe, and Stilone in Australia, or you can order
survivors will be no exception. You can recommend this directly from the publisher. (NOTE: New Victoria will
distinctive and absorbing tale of life in The Year Seven be with InBook as of June 1, 1993) Terms: 25% 2-5 books
to readers of any persuasion. $9.95 pb, 1-56280-034-5. (40% prepaid); 40% 6-25 books (45% prepaid); 45% 26
Naiad Press, PO Box 10543, Tallahassee, FL 32302, or more (50% prepaid). — New Victoria Publishers
IN, BP, et al. — Naiad Press
NEW NON-FICTION FROM
EZE
SCARLET.PRESS
Winner of the 1992 Women in (4
NEW VICTORIA PUBLISHERS Publishing New Venture Award
Tell Me What You Like represents a new and Pearlie McNeill, Bea Freeman, Jenny Newman
rather controversial area for New Victoria. Being ISBN 186727 000 2 $15.50
pretty vanilla women ourselves, we realized that we “Sheer pleasure. I’m glad to have this book
h foe uld n d c e tr hta ei n m p anre uj su cd ri ic pe ts ia ng ta ei rn es st t i nt gh e b l ee ca at uh se er i ts c e cn he a. l - We a B Ps ee ac raa u li s ec e o m MYp coa Nun e i io W lln a.” n t S h Te or e W H ri it te e
lenged some of these prejudices. We were particularly ISBN .1.85727.030. 4 $17.95
judgmental about women who sold sex for a living “An illuminating mix of textbook and common-
and and yet found Stacy, the dominatrix in the book, sense approach to creative writing.” Pink Paper
a sympathetic character. We felt that this would be a Lesbians Talk Queer Notions
stimulating addition to the debate about S&M. We C IShe Br Nry : 1 1Sm 85y 7th 27.:025:8 $8.50
a nl os to af be olt v e t o g i vb ie n gq u tit he e h leo sn be is at n, pth ubat li c h o wt h as te x it s e ll il ks, e s .a n $d 9 . 9a 5re t“ oS o m we ht ah ti n pg r o f mor is e se v e tr oy o bn ee a t o l i vp eo lynd e sr e. r.. i e sa . ” l i Tv ie mly e s Ota ur tt
pb, 0- 934678-48-, April. Lesbians Talk (Safer) Sex
The decision to publish Hers Was the Sky was Sue O'Sullivan and Pratibha Parmar
not too difficult because the author works for New ISBN1°85727°020°7 $8.50
Victoria and has written two earlier books, Runway at “A thoughtful and thorough contribution.” Time Out
Eland Springs, and In Unlikely Places. Her writing is “One of the highlights of 1992 in women’s
intelligent and always introduces the reader to times publishing.” The Bookseller
and places not often covered in lesbian fiction. All of Available through Inland Books
81
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
TELL
Ua
R
31O o
sex games may have led to murder?
ISBN0-934678-48-0
PARADIGM PUBLISHING determination to capture one of the most intelligent
Empath, by Michael B. Holloway. This is and insane criminal minds in the country. Delta and
Paradigm’s first gay male fiction release. We are ex- her best friend Connie Rivera once again join together
cited about the opportunity to release a book that in a deadly race against time. Only now, they must
deals with AIDS and has a happy ending. The main enter the complex world of computer games in order
character, Bradley Halloran, who possesses a unique to solve the mystery before their antagonist can strike
genetic gift is dropped into a turbulent chain of events again, with Connie slated as the final victim. Linda
revealing cover-up and industrial politics by a huge Kay Silva's Taken By Storm received rave reviews with
pharmaceutical corporation. Brad channels his super- the East Bay Alternative proclaiming it a book “not to
natural abilities in the fight against AIDS, supported be missed!” In Storm Shelter, she has done it again!
by a host of unique characters including his best $10.95 pb, 0-9628595-8-3, May.
friend, a wonderful lesbian protagonist. If you enjoy Paradigm Publishing Company, PO Box 3877,
suspense, murder mysteries, political thrillers, or sci- San Diego CA 92163. 619-234-7115; Fax 619-234-2607.
ence fiction, Empath will keep you intrigued and Direct orders welcome (contact us for discount sched-
entertained. Booksellers will appreciate that the cover ule). Also available from Inland, Bookpeople, Book-
alone will sell this book, but don’t miss the incredible slinger, and New Leaf. — Paradigm Publishing
story inside. $10.95 pb, 0-9628595-7-5, May.
Storm Shelter, by Linda Kay Silva. This is the one RISING TIDE
you have all been asking about...Officer Delta Stevens Rising Tide Press will have five new fiction titles
is back in the long awaited sequel to Taken By Storm. published in time for ABA. Love Spell by Karen
The author and her character need no introduction to Williams, who mixes the romance and magical real-
those of you who have sold so many of her books. In ism genres very well and Corners of the Heart by
Storm Shelter Delta uses every bit of her courage and Leslie Gray who mixes romance and mystery su-
March/April 1993 82 Volume 15 Number 6
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
perbly should be out by the time you read this. Isis flooded rivers, all with high spirits and a great sense
Rising, Jean Stewart's sequel to Return to Isis, which of adventure. $12.95 pb, 1-878067-28-1, April.
has received wonderful reviews, will be off press by Still Explosion by Mary Logue. The first in a
May 1. The other two books I'm going to keep a series of mysteries featuring savvy journalist Laura
secret for the time being. We are looking for writers Malloy, this gripping tale of murder is right out of
with good manuscripts. We would like to publish today’s headlines. When Malloy, a reporter for the
10-15 books a year. All that stops us is the lack of Twin Cities Times, sets out to write a story on abortion,
- good manuscripts. she doesn’t stop to think about the consequences. But
NY Ri si ng1 T1id7e 4Pr6ess., 5 —Kivy StR., Hiusnitinngtgon StTatioinde w thh ee n m oth rne i nL ga k oev fi e hw e r F a mm ei ely ti n P gl a n wn itin hg t hC eli n dic i r ei cs t ob ro , m sb he ed
realizes she has more than a routine story on her
SEAL PRESS hands. Can she discover the culprit before another
In Love and In Danger by Barrie Levy. Seal is deadly bomb is set off? $18.95 cl, 1-878067-29-X, May.
proud to publish the second book by Barrie Levy, Alma Rose by Edith Forbes. This debut novel is
editor of Dating Violence: Young Women in Danger. Levy one of our favorites — a funny and endearing tale of
speaks directly to teens on what constitutes abusive lesbian love off the beaten track. Ursula LeGuin says
relationships — emotional, physical, and sexual — and this about Edith Forbes’s enchanting first book: “Bar-
how to break free of them. Interwoven with stories bara Kingsolver, Judith Freeman, Deirdre McNamer,
from teens are helpful advice and checklists that will now Edith Forbes; the little lonesome towns of the Far
give teens the courage to end the cycle of abuse and West are finding their chroniclers at last...In a beauti-
forge healthy relationships. $8.95pb, 1-878067-26-5. fully dry, laconic voice Pat Lloyd, the grocer of Kilgore,
tells us about herself and her town and her true love, the
published in Canada in 1961, we are delighted to trucker Alma Rose.” $10.95 pb, 1-878067-33-8, June.
bring this classic book to readers in the U.S. The Curve Seal Press Feminist Publishers, 3131 Western Ave.
of Time is a lyrical and timeless account of an inde- Suite 410, Seattle WA 98121; 206-283-7844. Distributed
pendent woman who, in the 1920's, packed her five by Publishers Group West, Inland and Bookpeople; in
children onto a 25-foot boat and explored the coastal Canada by Raincoast Book Distribution and in Europe
waters of Vancouver Island. Acting single-handedly by Airlift Book Co. — Seal Press
as skipper, navigator, engineer, and of course, mother, Se
Muriel Wylie Blanchet instilled in her children a deep
respect for the Native cultures of the region and the
rhyth m Ds o w of n n tat hu ere . W $1 i2 l. d95 Rpb i, v e1 r-8 7 8 N06 o7 r-2 t7 h-3 , b A yp r i Cl. onstanċe SECOND STORY PRESS
Helmericks. As part of our series on women in sports Hattie Pearl Click Click, by Emily Hearn, illus-
and the outdoors, we are releasing a new edition of trated by Yvonne Cathcart. This is a wonderful story
Down the Wild River North, first published by. Ber- told in flashback for any child, ages 6-9 who has a
gamot Books in 1989. This is the unforgettable account problem with reading. Today, Janey is an adult writer
of a single mother who took her two teenage daugh- who uses a computer to help children who also like to
ters on a canoe trip from the Canadian Rockies to the write. As a child she made up wonderful fantasies that
Arctic Ocean in the 1960s. In remote wilderness they carried her on a magic carpet to anywhere her imagi-
navigated rapids and floating tree jams on the often nation would allow. But what most people didn’t
83 March/April 1993
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsMega by B. L. Holmes. Charged with saving the Earth from further de-
struction, a group of psychics and scientists enlist the aid of lesbian Kerek
Leight to help them in their task. This science fiction novel is set against a
future of giant cities and vast pollution. (Finalist in 1992 Lambda Literary
Awards science fiction category.) ISBN 0-941300-19-6 Paper $8.95
Hodag Winter by Deborah Wiese. A first grade teacher is fired because she
is a lesbian. She and her lover and friends fight back. ISBN 0-941300-18-8
Paper $8.95
Singin' the Sun Up by Ocala Wings. Communicating with dolphins gives
this lesbian love story a New Age twist. ISBN 0-941 300-20-X Paper $8.95
NEWS by Heather Conrad is a gripping novel of a women’s computer take-
over to make the empire builders and the money makers stop destroying
the people and the earth. ISBN 0-941300-04-8 Paper $9.95
Night Lights by Bonnie Shrewsbury Arthur. More than your traditional
lesbian romance, this novel tackles various issues—with a light touch that
will make you laugh out loud. ISBN 0-941300-05-6 Paper $8.95
Rowdy & Laughing by B. L. Holmes. She’s not gay, she’s rowdy and
laughing. Poems encompass the joy of life and being in love. ISBN 0-
941300-06-4 Paper $4.95
Senior Citizen by B. L. Holmes. A musical comedy, this funny and touch-
ing play explores the dual themes of rejection of the aged and gays/lesbians.
ISBN 0-941300-22-6 Paper $8.95
£ Mother Courage Press
Oat 1667 Douglas Avenue, Racine, WI 53404-2721, (414) 637-2227
- Also available from Inland, Bookpeople, Bookslinger
March/April 1993 84 Volume 15 Number 6
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
know was that this girl who was so good at creating twenty-three experts in the field share their extensive
stories was having problems learning to read. The knowledge on women’s preoccupation with body
only person at home who seemed to recognize the size. They discuss the social context in which these
problem was the effervescent Hattie Pearl, a boarder issues have developed, including fat oppression, the
who helped the youngster every night. 32 pages, fully function of white beauty ideals in a multiracial society,
illustrated. $5.95 pb, 0-929005-44-9, April. and gaps between feminist ideology and personal
The Woman’s Daybook 1994, featuring photo- experience. They discuss strategies for family, group,
graphs by women on the theme “Sister/s.” Accord- and individual work, as well as work in institutional
ing to a major wholesaler of calendars The Women’s settings and community education initiatives. $16.95
Daybook is one of the very few whose sales are in- pb, 0-929005-42-2, May.
creasing significantly. We are also very pleased to note
that Ms. Magazine looks like it will be featuring it as a SVA
premium this fall so it will be advertised there
throughout the buying season. The fifth edition of the
Women’s Daybook celebrates “Sister /s.” Contempo- The Y Chromosome, by Leona Gom. Taut and
rary women photographers introduce each month of gripping—a highly acclaimed futuristic novel—The
the year with a photograph and text that explores the Y Chromosome examines the relations and value sys-
many diverse and wonderful ways women sister each tem of a society of women. This is a world where the
other. Double page weekly spreads follow, including few men still alive are in hiding, socialized early in life
hour by hour schedules and extra notations space. A to regard themselves as inferior. The critics have said
telephone and address directory is also included in it’s “sheer dynamite” with a “brilliant narrative,”
this large format daybook which elegantly organizes “compellingly written” and “deserves to be as widely
the lives of all busy women. $14.95 pb, spiral bound, discussed as Margaret Atwood’s Handmaid's Tale."
0-929005-43-0, July. $14.95 pb, 0-929005-16-3.
Adoption Reunions: A Book for Adoptees, Birth Second Story Press, 760 Bathurst Street, Toronto
Parents and Adoptive Families, by Michelle Mc- MS5S 2R6, is represented by InBook. — Second Story
C wo hl om . h aIn s wth ri is t t ep no s i et xiv tee n sa in vd el y p r aa bc ot uic ta l a lg l u i ad se p, e c M tsc C oo fl m adop- SPINIFEX PRESS
tion reunions, takes the adoptee and birth parent care- If Passion Were a Flower, photographs by Lari-
fully through the process from the initial search ane Fonseca. $59.95 c], 1-875559-06-X. If Passion Were
decision to coping with post-reunion letdown. She a Flower, photographs by Lariane Fonseca is a book
draws on extensive interviews with adoptees, birth that will take your breath away. If you can imagine
parents, and adoptive parents, as well as the experi- what Georgia O'Keefe would see standing with her
ence of her own reunion. The words of those who have nose to a flower, or what Virginia Woolfe saw when
been there reveal the dizzying array of emotions that writing the first paragraph of her short story, “Kew
come with reunions and offer insights into coping Gardens,” then you'll have an idea what Lariane Fon-
with them. Through each step of the process McColm seca sees through her camera lens. If you can't imag-
provides cogent advice on what to expect, how to ine it, then order it and open it with a group of women
prepare for it, and how to move forward. $15.95 pb, friends (or customers)—you’ll hear their responses.
0-929005-41-4, April. We oversaw the printing of the book in Hong Kong so
that we could ensure the colours would come up right.
SVZ Reviewers have responded well to the book, and some
have called it a bargain.
Life on the Edge, cartoons by Judy Horacek,
Consuming Passions: Feminist Approaches To introduced by Dale Spender. $12.95 pb, 1-875559-11-.
Eating Disorders and Weight Preoccupation, edited Judy Horacek has made thousands of people laugh
by Catrina Brown and Karin Jasper. This is the first over Christmas in Australia. That’s because thou-
practical book on the subject. In this collection, sands bought it for their friends. Our best seller, the
85 March/April 1993
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
aaas
Y A,
S
Volcano Press, Inc. VOLCAN (209) 296-3445
P.O. Box 270 Volcano, CA 95689 fax (209) 296-4515 =
humor in Judy’s cartoons span continents, cultures 329-6088; Note new fax no. 61-3-329-9238. Spinifex
and ages. She will make you laugh as a feminist about Press titles are distributed in the U.S. by Inland and
issues around race, ecology, capitalism, postmodern- Bookpeople. — Susan Hawthorne
ism, power dressing, menopause and much else be-
sides. Dale Spender’s insightful introduction gets you SPINSTERS INK
thinking, Judy Horacek’s cartoons get you laughing. Final Rest by Mary Morell (you know, she and
Anne Frost run Full Circle Bookstore in Albuquerque)
ELZ, is the second much awaited mystery with detective
Lucia Ramos. This time we find Lucia flying to Ala-
bama with her lover Amy Traeger. She's engaged in
Perverse Serenity, poems by Robyn Rowland. some off-duty sleuthing because Amy’s Aunt Meg has
$12.95 pb, 1-875559-13-2. What happens when a fem- been arrested for murder in the poisoning death of a
inist falls in love with an Irish monk? Robyn Row- neighbor. It soon develops that just about everybody
land, well known for her critical work on reproductive in Aunt Meg’s retirement community could have had
technologies, has written an extraordinary collection a motive for doing away with the unlamented Loretta
of poems, that is at once riveting story and exception- Millett. But it’s up to Lucia and Amy to uncover the
ally fine poetry. She writes about love, loss, about the truth because the local sheriff is convinced that Aunt
complexities of distance and desire. Meg had the motive, the means and the opportunity.
The Spinfex Quiz Book: A Book of Women’s We think if you liked Final Session (Mary's first novel
Answer’s, Susan Hawthorne. $11.95 pb, 1-875559-15- which also won Spinster’s 1990 Lesbian Fiction Con-
9, May. Have you ever wanted to know who invented test) then you'll like this book even more. $9.95 pb,
the wheel? the computer? or hieroglyphics? Have you 0-933216-94-7, April.
been frustrated by not knowing the names of out- Nell Fury is back in The Solitary Twist by Eliza-
standing women and what they achieved? A book beth Pincus. Nell meets Christa Lovett on a flight back
that's been recommended highly in the US, Germany to San Francisco. Christa is concerned about the im-
and Australia for high schools, The Spinfex Quiz pending marriage of her ex-lover, Ellen Norway, and
Book gives lots of information on women from
a hr ao su n ad n t eh xe t e nw so ivr eld . i n N deo xw . in its second edition, it also a bs rk ids e gN re ol ol m t o t od o a s a s u rb ea c k hg err o u tn hd at c hh ee ’c sk o o nn t hth e e u p pr o as np de c t uiv pe .
Ever the sucker for a damsel in distress, or in this case,
Spinifex Press, 504 Queensberry Street, PO Box the distressed damsel, Nell agrees. When Ellen is kid-
212, North Melbourne Vic 3051, Australia. Tel: 61-3- napped, and Christa subsequently disappears, it be-
March/April 1993
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Marn Thu, 01 Jan 1976 12:34:56 UTC
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
comes obvious that nobody is quite who they seem. front myths about cancer and describe how women
Nell's love interest Tammie Rae, best friend Phoebe, are releasing fear and taking power from cancer, ex-
and daughter Pinky all give Nell a hand in untangling ploring alternative therapies and approaches to tradi-
the twisted threads of this plot. We especially like Nell tional therapies, and establishing grassroots women’s
because Elizabeth Pincus’ past experience as a former cancer activist organizations.
private investigator offers authenticity and believabil-
ity to Nell’s daring antics. $9.95 pb, 0-933216-93-9, SVA
May.
Madeline Moore’s first novel, As You Desire, was
selected as this year’s winner of Spinsters’ Lesbian Enter Password: Recovery, by Elly Bulkin. $7.95
Fiction Contest. Judge Sandy Boucher said, “This pb, 1-879427-10-9. This book originally issued by Tur-
beautiful novel...resonates with wisdom. Madeline tle Press is hard to sell and very important. If you
Moore's prose never falters in its graceful, brave po- shelve it in Recovery, it gets lost because childhood
etic strength...Rich with surprising imagery, rooted in sexual abuse is only one topic among many. Try it with
irony, As You Desire recalls the best lesbian writing of Autobiography, Journals (or Writing), Jewish Studies,
Paris in the Thirties.” This story of personal healing or Sexual Abuse. And remember it the next time you
set in Paris during the student revolutions of the late hear trashing going on in your community—it’s a
60's is courageous and thoughtful. We found it to be good antidote, or balm.
stunning as an intimate revelation of one woman’s She’s Always Liked the Girls Best: Lesbian
journey from pain to peace. $9.95 pb, 0-933216-95-5, Plays, by Claudia Allen. $11.95 pb, 1-879427-11-7. An
April. entertaining, easy-to-read, funny, and meaningful col-
lection of plays. Playwright Claudia Allen is the only
55403. 612-377-0287; Fax 612-377-1759. Distributed by woman (so far) to win a Joseph Jefferson Award (Chi-
InBook. Also available from Inland, BP, Ingram, B&T. cago theater's equivalent of an Oscar) and she’s won
— Mev Miller two!
QZ Third Side Press, 2250 W. Farragut, Chicago IL
60625. 312-271-3029; Fax 312-271-0459. Please order
quantities of 20+ directly (40% discount & free freight;
43% on 60+; mixed titles OK). Otherwise, please use
THIRD SIDE PRESS oNur e dwistr ib uLtoersa: fBo.o k pe—ople , BToohksilirngder , ISnliandd,e Press
Timber City Masks: A Royce Madison Mystery,
b fy ew K die yr kan es Y wo hrk o a($ r9 e. n9 '5 t p abb o, u t1 - 8 t7 o9 4 l2 e7 av-1 e3 - C3 o) l of re aa dt ou !r e Rs o ya ce WELL VERSED PUBLICATIONS
Madison, deputy sheriff, explores the limits of racism, Only Mountains Never Meet, short fiction by
ffamailyt hloyealtry,’ san d smexuaulityr das e shre etrries. to :find her Nancy Chong, Martha Kofie, Kwanza Msingwana.
1-895248-05-1, June. Toronto in the 1990s is a meeting
Confronting Cancer, Constructing Change: place for writers from all over the world. Only Moun-
New Perspectives on Women and Cancer ($10.95 pb, tains Never Meet is the result of a collaboration of
1-879427-09-5; $24.95 cl, -17-6), Volume 2 of the three talented just-starting-to-be-published authors.
Women /Cancer/Fear/Power series, edited by Midge In reading this collection of short “creative non-fic-
Stocker, with an introduction by Sandra Butler, con- tion,” the reader is ricocheted from urban and rural
87 March/April 1993
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
FEMINISTS FOR ANIMAL RIGHTS NEWSLETTER ©
AAnrimtiacl l eRsi g hmts;a kAiInDSg a ntdh eA n cimonal n Reecsteiaorcnhs; Pborentowgreaepnhy w anodm Heunn t ianng;d W aomniemn aWlso r kienr s pina t trhiea r Pcohualtlr y s Abortion Rights and
Industry; Women, Food and the Vegetarian Connection; Snake Oppression; etc., plus poetry, reviews, direct
action news, resources and much, much more.
Or2der0 lat es t ipssuea, pglus e Vosl V II n-os. 1- 2; $ Vo3l V.I 0 nos0 3- 4 anrd Veol t VI a nois l 1- 2. ;
For bookstores: 1-5 copies 40%; 6-10 copies 45%; 10 or more copies 50%.
Plus Shipping (please approximate).
Also available from FAR: Buttons -Proud to be Vegetarian and Gay
-Vegetarian Feminist -Another Lesbian for Animal Liberation
-Veggi Dyke -Another Gay for Animal Rights
-Another Ecofeminist Lesbian Vegetarian And more: i
-Patriarchy/A Threat to All Life send for complete list of buttons.
Minimum button order: 25 buttons $1.00 - 50% disc. plus shipping
Bumper Sticker: “Feminists for Animal Rights” $1.00 (50% disc.) p : Mut
Canada to Kenya, South Africa, Ghana, China. In of selected erotic poems. ($3 off with mention of FBN
editing each others’ work, these three writers have or our ad.)
pushed off into new territories of literary creativity. Eye of the Wind is the third collection of political
Their work highlights the multi-racial, multi-cultural | and social poems by Oregon poet MaryJane Brewster.
wealth around us. The collection continues Brewster's strident attack on
Well Versed Publications, 427 Bloor Street West racism and the American government. She pleads for
#109, Toronto ONT, M5S 1X7. In the U.S. our books are love, compassion, and action by the ordinary citizen.
available from Inland Book Company. In Canada our Readable and passionate, it reveals the poet's true
books are available from University of Toronto Press. commitment to human dignity and integrity in this
— Maureen Fitzgerald | country and in the world. $8 pb, 0-934-172-27-7.
The Book of Lives introduces New York poet
LVZ Sherrilyn Posey’s first pu fbealtiusrhes e tdh em ceso lcloemcmtoino nto tohef st rweeto rankd . t o I tthe acad-
emy. This is living poetry written about the lives of
WOMAN IN THE MOON PUBLICATIONS women, workers, children, AIDS victims, and the
Dykehands and Sutras Erotic and Lyric, is a | homeless. The work has the flavor of a speech by So-
vibrant reprint of the erotic poetry and social-per- | journer Truth, the down-home insight of Gwendolyn
sonal essays of SDiane Bogus. A WIM bestseller. Brooks, and the quickness of a Nikki Giovanni piece.
Includes “Making Whoopi,” “Michael Jackson,” Welcome her to your library. $8 pb, 0-934-172-26-9.
“After the Kiss,” and “Miss Agatha” with a revised Buddhism for My Friends by SDiane Bogus of-
version of the autobiographical essay entitled “To fers a candid, satiric, and useful look at Sokka Bud-
My Mother's Vision.” Called “a lesbian classic” by | dhism (formerly Nicherin Shoshu of America) via a
Small Press Review. $12 pb, 0-934-172-01-3. Also lesbian-feminist and Black perspective. Includes per-
available: S.E.X., the companion audio cassette ($10) sonal essays on such topics as reincarnation, homo-
March/April 1993 88 Volume 15 Number 6
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
sexuality, Christianity versus Buddhism, and patriar-
chal rule in a diary of the practice, selected critical Lesbian Fiction/Mystery
reviews with commentary on other sects and contem-
porary ideas. A common sense and pleasantly biased
practicum for chanting to get what one wants out of
life and to heal the soul while building the self. $20,
0-934-172-25-), June.
Woman in the Moon, is an expanded reprint of
the second of the seven-book Bogus Canon. A must
other favorite poems from her performance read-
ings. $8 pb, 0-934-17201-3. Also available in a case A
edition, $12.
All WIM titles are on sale through August 22.
$2.50 off with mention of FBN or ad from this issue of
FBN. Women in the Moon Publications, 10203 Park-
wood Dr. #7, Cupertino CA 95014. Distributed by
Inland and Bookslinger. — Woman in the Moon
SVIA
THE WOMEN’S PRESS/CANADA
Tahuri is a moving collection of short stories by In just 90 days, the Book Garden
Maori writer Ngahuia Te Awekotuku depicting the sold 127 copies of
title character—Tahuri—and other young Maori girls A Safe Place To Sleep,
coming of age in New Zealand. These young women catapulting it to the #4
move from the security of childhood with their Kuia
best-selling title for all of 1992!
with cousins, brothers, neighbors and pakehas from
school. For Tahuri herself, there is another journey. The ADVOCATE called it “... a cut
Tahuri is not interested in going with the boys. Tahuri above the norm, an auspicious
likes watching the big girls, she likes watching the debut for Our Power Press...”
women dressed in men’s clothes, and finally Tahuri
likes Mirimiri, a young woman like herself. $11.95 pb,
0-88961-183-1. Readers everywhere are saying,
The best-selling children’s picturebook Come Sit “I couldn’t put it down!”
By Meis now available in a full-colour poster. Heather
Collins’ lively illustrations provide children, parents, Order your copies today
and educators with important information on how through Bookpeople or Inland!
you cannot get HIV and AIDS. This poster will go a
long way to dispel the myths around HIV and AIDS. A Safe Place To Sleep
$5, 23 X 15 1/2, 0-88961-185. by Jennifer L. Jordan
Women’s Press, 517 College Street, # 233, To- published by Our Power Press
ronto ONT, M6G 4A2. Distributors: University of $9.95, 171 pages
T so lr ianon gt eon r P r (e Usds S A(C )a ;n a d Ta ) u; r I nUnl aa rn od, u . nB doKo k p De io sp.tle r,)i bB uoo tk i o- n O (Europe ISBN: 0-9634075-0-3
89 March/April 1993
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsbuy any title from
any regular order.
g Into Our Fullness _
s, $14.95, 0895945177
Archetype
, 2 cass., 1-56455-082-6
You don't have to make a sepe make an order meeting our
standard minimum requirement (10 Y ), the 45% discount is automatically
assigned to every Featured Publisher title. atically assigned on all electronic orders.
Bookpeople’s Featured Publisher Program makes it easy and convenient for you to get extra discount every time you order
the strong sellers from these five presses. For more information call the Order Department at (800) 999-4650.
BOOKPEOPLE ‘i: 1sfce: 001994690 610 602121
March/April 1993 90 Volume 15 Number 6
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
By Ann Morse and Karen Carnival Boat of Stone by Maureen Earl is a Holocaust
novel based on the true story of the passengers aboard
The Berkeley, CA-based Ulysses Press has joined the SS Atlantic in 1940 — Jewish refugees seeking a
with Virago to launch the inspiring Virago Woman’s safe haven from the horrors of their Nazi-occupied
Travel Guides series, which includes New York: The home. Hanna Sommerfield, the “plucky, cantanker-
Virago Woman’s Travel Guide by Josie Barnard ous, septugenarian widow” who is the fictional narra-
($13.95 pb, 0-915233-88-6), Paris... by Catherine tor, is described as “a Tel Aviv grandmother who
Cullen ($13.95 pb, -89-4) and Rome... by Ros Belford remembers.” Sentimental but illuminating. $21.95 pb,
($13.95 pb, -90-8). Each woman-centered guide in- 1-877946-21-4. Permanent Press, Noyac Road, Sag
cludes a wealth of information on hotels, restaurants, Harbor NY 11963. 40% 5 - 24; 50% 25+. BP, IN.
entertainment, sightseeing, day trips, safety, health,
language, feminism, history and much more. Written
with a sense of humor, lots of specifics and joyously g
free of much of the patronizing jargon of many 3
women’s travel books (there's not one suggestion on
how to pack your suitcase or how many pairs of high
heel shoes to take). The guides are easy to use and
alone, women traveling with other women or chil- V N
d sr ee sn , P a rnd e s sat , b Pu Osin e Bss ow xom e 3n 4. 4 L 0e ,s b i Ban e r i knc el lu esi yv e. C U Aly s - 94703. S YS a ú | n A A
Publisher's Group West along with BP, IN, Ingram, ally oop! \\ \
Baker & Taylor, Brodar, Quality Books, Pacific Pipe-
line and in Canada, Raincoast. Paula Clayton
We were delighted to come across Kitchen Talk:
Bookpeople (BP) and Inland (IN) distribute small press Contemporary Women’s Prose and Poetry, an en-
books to bookstores. “BP” or “IN” at the end of an annota- grossing collection of writings from and about the
tion means that the books are available from that distributor. kitchen by a wide variety of Canadian women. As
Both distributors stock a wide range of titles and publishers Edna Alford comments in the introduction, kitchens
of interest to feminist bookstores. If you are a new store or — too often devalued and trivialized — are the “sites
don't already work with both distributors, drop everything of significant human experience — celebration, dam-
and call for catalogs. : nation and everything in between... All of them alive
Inland Book Company, PO Box 120261, 140 Com- with the heat of the words of women.” Edited by Edna
merce St., East Haven CT 06512. Order number: 800-243- Alford and Claire Harris. $15.95 pb, 0-88995-091-1.
0138 (including Canada and Connecticut). Red Deer College Press, 56 Ave. & 32 St., Box 5005, Red
Bookpeople, 7900 Edgewater Dr, Oakland CA 94621. Deer ALB Canada T4N 5H5. Distributed by Raincoast
Phone: 800-999-4650. Books.
March/April 1993
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
a s
FRIEND.
OTHER SIDE Story by Gloria Anzaldúa
AMIGOS DEL OTRO LABO Pictures by Consuelo Méndez
FBN’s review of Georgia Savage's The House thing, The Feminine Mystique would never have been
Tibet began, “If you have time to read, order or buy Written and the women’s movement probably
only one of the books mentioned in this column, wouldn't have happened. Perhaps these problems
make it [this one].” So it was with great enthusiasm would be less troubling had the feminist in The House
that we approached The Estuary, the second of the Tibet not also been a write-off. $20 c], 1-55597-172-5,
Australian writer’s novels to be published in the U.S. April. Graywolf.
We wanted to like it, and indeed, there is much to like.
The Estuary gives us another engaging heroine — The Body in Four Parts is Janet Kauffman’s alle-
adult this time — who hasn't had an easy childhood gorical, non-linear exploration of nature, humanity,
and who loses the peace (and identity) she’s found as language and women reclaiming their lives. Graywolf
an adult when her husband dies unexpectedly and describes the plot as following a “woman two-thirds
then, for all practical purposes, loses her relationship water, the rest clay” as she embarks on a mythic jour-
with her daughter while still consumed with grief. As ney in search of sustenance for her “water-dwelling
readers, we followed Vinnie’s search for an indepen- sister-self.” $18 cl, 1-55597-179-2. Graywolf Press, 2402
dent identity with interest and a familiar sympathy. University Ave., Suite 203, St. Paul NM 55114. BP, IN,
But Savage tosses that sympathy to the wind in the Bookslinger.
last few chapters, first by turning the feminist char-
acter into a scapegoat and then with an unnecessary
trivialization of the heroine's sexual experience with
another woman (with a line that undoubtedly scores
big with male reviewers). Ultimately the novel fails Blue Sky, Green Sea & Other Stories by Chinese
by “resolving” Vinnie's identity quest by giving her author Liu Sola is now available in English through a
relationships with — you guessed it — a man and a translation by Martha Cheung. The publishers say Liu
child. If identity and relationship were the same “frequently portrays young city-dwellers, adrift in a
March/April 1993 92 Volume 15 Number 6
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
society in flux, wanting somehow — almost in spite of called an “experimental” novelist and, based on The
themselves — to play a role in creating a modern Autobiography of Cassandra, that description seems
culture in China. In her apparent refusal to deal with fitting. $9 pb, 0-929701-24-0. McPherson & Company,
serious subjects seriously, the author reveals a spirit of PO Box 1126, Kingston NY 12401. IN.
rebelliousness which has made her work particularly
appealing to young Chinese.” $10.95 pb, 962-7255-12- Black Sparrow Press has published According to
1. Renditions Paperbacks, Research Centre for Trans- Her Contours, the first book of poetry and stories by
lation, Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shatin NT San Francisco's self-described lesbian tomboy poet
Hong Kong. Distributed by Cheng & Tsui, IN, Book- Nancy Boutilier. In this accessible collection, Boutilier
slinger and Small Press Distribution. (who jokes that she officiates basketball games and
writes during half-time) confronts the realities of
growing up female in a male-dominated world.$12.50
pb, 0-87685-884-1. Black Sparrow Press, 24 Tenth St.,
Santa Rosa CA 95401. IN.
Available in English is The Nine Guardians by
Rosario Castellanos, described by the publishers as Selected Poems of Jenny Joseph (author of the
Mexico's finest woman novelist of the century. Set in classic poem “Warning” which begins, “When I am an
a remote village in Mexico between 1934 and 1940, old woman I shall wear purple”) includes works culled
The Nine Guardians follows a seven-year-old girl
as she watches the old order break down. Written in
t1 i9 o5 n7 a. l , $ 1 P1 O.9 5 B op xb , 9 50 9- ,9 3 C05 o2 lu3 m-9 b0 i- a3 . . L AR e a 7d 1e 4r 1s 8 . I n Ct oe nr sn oa r- tium, ZOOLOGIST
BP, IN.
ISBN 1-880599-08-2 $6.00 Retail
collect W ionri t ote fn s han ord t p su tb ol ri is eh se d e n i tn it lW eda l e Ts h, e G Mle en dd la a r B Tea rg ea en’s Caasssc, a dIne c .E E;R ,SA
touches on universal themes of convention, commit-
ment and desire. Deep emotions are present in these
stories, combining anxiety with humor and depres-
sion with observation; in her characters we may find
reflections of ourselves. Simply written, true to life.
$18.95 pb, 1-85411-068-3. Published in Wales by Seren
Books; distributed in the U.S. by Dufour Editions, PO
Box 449, Chester Springs PA, 19425.
*A unique career series for children*
Thirteen years after its original publication, Other titles: You Can Be A Woman Engineer
Ursule Molinaro’s The Autobiography of Cassandra, You Can Be A Woman Architect ;
Princess & Prophetess of Troy has been re-released, You Can Be A Woman Marine Biologist
this time in paperback with original artwork by the ISBNs -01-5, -04-X, -06-6
author appearing on the cover. Peculiar in form, this Available in Spanish-03-1, -05-8, -07-4; -09-0
novel explores the relationship that myth plays in Distributed by Bookpeople and by Inland
contemporary consciousness. Molinaro has been
93 March/April 1993
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
FZPor the woman
with places to go..
NEW YORK
ROME
FHE PARIS
THE
WOMANS G VIDE Written through a woman’s
TRAVEL
GUIDE eye, these guides speak di-
rectly to the special interests
of women travelers. Each
title offers a fascinating
blend of practical informa-
tion and cultural insights.
NEW YORK: ISBN 0-915233-88-6, $13.95
ROME: ISBN 0-915233-90-8, $13.95
PARIS: ISBN 0-915233-89-4, $13.95
for a free catalog contact
ULYSSES PRESS, 800-377-2542 distributed by Publishers Group West
from four of Joseph's poetry books: The Unlooked-for Chocolate’s NEATE: To The Rescue, the five friends
Season, Rose in the Afternoon, Secker: The Thinking Heart (Naimah, Elizabeth, Anthony, Tayesha and Eddie)
and Beyond Descartes. $18.95 pb, 1-85224-095-4. Pub- work together to help Naimah’s mother fight a racist
lished in England by Bloodaxe Books and distributed in opponent and win re-election to city council. Coming
the U.S. by Dufour Editions, PO Box 449, Chester soon: NEATE #2: Elizabeth's Wish. Great for ages 10 and
Springs PA 19425. up. $3.95 pb, 0-940975-42-4. Just Us Books, 301 Main
St., Suite 22-24, Orange NJ 07050. BP.
Zephyr Press has released an updated and ex-
panded edition of The Complete Poems of Anna
Akhmatova, translated by Judith Hemschemeyer
and edited by Roberta Reeder. 960 pages in all, the
revised paperback edition contains more than 750 Gloria Anzaldúa (Borderlands/La Frontera; ed.
poems, including 80 poems not included in the cloth This Bridge Called my Back and Making Face, Making
edition. A 60-page “Photo Biography” consists of por- Soul) has written her first book for children, Friends
traits of the poet as artist's muse. Akhmatova’s poetry from the Other Side. This story is a wonderfully
is simple yet lyrical; through her voice we come to written tale (in both English and Spanish) of friend-
know a woman and a country, both survivors in trou- ship formed despite cultural tensions. Prietita, a
bled times. At $24.95, the paperback edition is much young Mexican-American girl, befriends Joaquín, a
more affordable than the cloth. 0-939010-27-5. Zephyr Mexican boy from “across the river,” protecting him
Press, 13 Robinson St., Somerville MA 02145. BP., IN. from the neighborhood bullies and the Border Patrol.
With beautiful illustrations by Consuelo Méndez, this
If you carry young adult books you might want book is a must for any store with a children’s section.
to consider the “NEATE” series from Just Us Books, $13.95 pb, 0-89239-113-8. Children’s Book Press, 6400
featuring five African- American teenagers. In Debbie Hollis St. Suite 4, Emeryville CA 94608. BP.
March/April 1993 94
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Tender Darkness is the first collection of works son. Walking with a crutch, she crossed mountain
by Mary MacLane, a pioneering feminist whose frank trails not even mules could climb. Though she never
expression of lesbian feelings (among other things) in found her son, she stayed in Alaska for 25 years,
her book The Story of Mary MacLane (1902) caused a supporting herself by sewing and running stores,
sensation. Tender Darkness includes an introduction watching the frenzies of the gold rush and befriending
to her work and life, The Story of Mary MacLane, a showgirls, native peoples, miners, lawmen and even
selection of MacLane’s newspaper articles and a 1902 outlaws. Upon returning to California, she worked as
interview with the author. $14.95 pb, no ISBN yet. the wardrobe lady at the Pantages Theater until she
Abernathy and Brown Publishers, 951-2 Old Country was 90. $19.50 cl, 0-208-02362-3. Shoe String Press, 925
Road, Suite 339, Belmont CA 94002. 40% for 5+. Sherman Ave., Hamden CT 06514. 40% 2-50.
WONNA elidel ranieri lia
Amazon Dream is Roberta Allen’s tale of her or fourteen years
journey into the Peruvian Amazon. Traveling alone, positively gay has
she learns about jungle life, relates encounters with b ine fen or ma a tm ioa njo r a n s dource of
cP her anu gv eia n hs a sa n ad f f e ex ctil ee ds ta hli ek e , r e gd ie os ncr , i b ae ns d t “h ce o n w fray ons t sr a p hi ed r lg eu si bd ia an nc s e a nfo dr t g ha ey irs,
ambivalence about coming from a dominant Western families. This updated,
Culture and, at the same time, looks for personal expanded edition
truths through the lens of this compelling wilder- addresses such topics as
ness.” Illustrated with Allen’s black-and-white photo- families, youth,
graphs. $9.95 pb, 0-87286-270-4. City Lights Books, parenting, religion,
261 Columbus Ave., San Francisco, CA 94133. BP, IN. minority issues,
aging, social life, and
“Painfully bored” with school], 17-year-old Karen job security.
Connelly successfully applied to the Calgary Rotary Contributors include:
Exchange Program and set off for Northern Thailand
as an exchange student. Touch the Dragon: A Thai N ancy foes 318 pages,$11.95, paperback.
Journal is her chronicle of the awakening she experi- Phyllis Lyon and Add $2.50 for postage and handling
e tn hc re ed e, w Ch oi nl ne e ll li yv i n rg e c oin gn ir zu esr a l T hT ah ila ai nla dn d a. s N to hw e ptw lae cn ety- D R De iol a b nM e era r t t a Ai n b B b I e iS tnB tN n e Ct0- t e8 l9 e0 a s8 n t7 id- a6 l7 6 : - A2 rts
where she came alive, and even goes so far as to call it Terry Wolverton P.O. Box 7327
the “country of her birth.” $12.95 pb, 0-88801-162-8. Teresa DeCrescenzo Berkeley, CA 94707
T Ru 3r Bn s 1t Hon 3e . GPr enes es r, a l 6 0 D7 i- s1 tr00 ib uA tir ot nh u Sr e rS vt i. c, e sW .innipeg MB Ayofemi Folayan (800) 841-2665
Also available in bookstores.
German-born Anna DeGraf was 86 when she “The update of this 1979 classic is must reading for
started writing her memoir Pioneering on the Yukon: those who want to learn more about the depth and
o1 f8 9 2 5- 31 ,9 1 s7 h. e S h he e a db ee dg i n tos h Ae lr as k t aa l e t o i n s e a1 r8 c9 h2 fw oh re n h, e ra t m t ih sse i n a gge breadt h— o*fD ioanure (gDaeye ) a Mndo s bleascbhiearn, cMu.lDtu.,r eP.”h . DeN. ba A
95 March/April 1993
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
EVAN ZIMROTH enced this legendary feminist and are riveting reading
for historical enthusiasts, although a bit cumbersome as
Dead, Dinner, or Naked one-volume-in-two-books. In addition, Paragon House
“Ilove the combination of smartness, has published the first and second volumes of this
pain, and what one might call autobiographical series, respectively entitled Memoir of
conscious postmodern trashiness in a Dutiful Daughter and The Prime of Life, with plans to
this book.” publish the last as wel], A!l Said and Done. After the War;
—Alicia Ostriker Force of Circumstance, 1, $14.95 pb, 1-55778-523-6.
$15, cloth; $8.95, paper Hard Times; Force of Circumstance, 2, $16.95 pb, -524-
4. Athena Books/ Paragon House, 90 Fifth Ave., New
MURIEL RUKEYSER York NY 10011. i
Out of Silence:
Selected Poems
“The publication of Out of Silence is M. Nourbese Philip, author of Looking for Living-
an event worthy of celebration.” stone, Harriet‘s Daughter and She Tries Her Tongue: Her
—The Women's Review of Books ASi fle rn icc ae n -S Co af nt al dy i a nB sr e a ink s , F rc oh nr to in eric sl : e s E st sh aye s s t ar nu dg g Wle rs it o inf gs
$28, cloth; $14, paper on Racism and Culture. Philip combines articles,
journals, letters and essays written between 1984 and
N Co hrt ich aw goes t Der isn t r iU bn ui tv ioe nrs it Cy e n tP er ress 1992 to create a text Mercury Press calls “destined to
800-621-2736 become a vital document for any discussion of racism
in Canada.” $15.95 pb, 0-920544-90-8.
For a quite different look at women adventurers, In The Deconstruction of Wesley Smithson, au-
there's Mary Sands’ wholesome tale of doing the Ap- thor Sarah Murphy presents three short fictions. The
palachian Trail in Bits and Pieces. Sands, a “leader, title story follows the life of Wesley Smithson, a jour-
teacher, mother and friend to 135 Girl Scouts” spent nalist perhaps dead, perhaps held by the CIA in a
16 years hiking the 2,000-mile Appalachian Trail. sanatorium for the insane. In “Cassie, Cassie,” a girl
Known as “Mama Boots” by the hikers, Sands shares mourns her lost sister and fears for her own safety,
both the physical and emotional highs and lows of the while “Paramilitary Parafictions,” presented as “a set
journey and the lessons she and her Girl Scout com-
panions learn along the way. Illustrated with black- o cof l l ef co to iotn no t oe fs fin ir ss te -a pr ec rh s o no f r et ph oe rir t s t oex f t , t” o ri ts u ra e d ai nst du r ab ni an lg yt-
and-white drawings by the author. Sands concludes ical summaries of Native beliefs in El Salvador. $12.95
her adventure by listing all the girls she hiked with, pb, 0-920544-94-0.
when, where and for how many miles. $15.95 cl, 0-
8059-3274-7. Dorrance Publishing Co., 643 Smithfield The seven short stories in Consider the Holly-
St., Pittsburgh, PA 15222. 5+ copies 40%. hocks mark the debut of Toronto writer Marg Wilson.
Wilson writes of a young girl, raised in the city, who
Paragon House has recently released more of The discovers a world of beauty during a brief visit to the
Autobiography of Simone de Beauvoir. Originally country; an executive on vacation in Cuba tries to find
published in 1963, the 1992 editions each contain a new her place among fellow tourists; a teenaged boy re-
introduction by Toril Moi. The Autobiography of sents his mother’s new boyfriend. $11.95 pb, 0-920544-
sS tim ano cn e,e 1d e c oB ve ea ru sv o dir e: BA ef at ue vr o i rt ’h s e l iW fea r f; r oF mor c e 1 9 4o 4f tC oi r c 1u 9m 52- . O95 N- T9. NM 5e Ar c u 2r Ty 1 P Cr ae ns as d, a . 1 3 IN7 . Birmingham St., Stratford
Hard Times; Force of Circumstance, 2 picks up where
book 1 left off, and continues on for another decade. In The Finest Kind: Voices of Newfoundland
Both books are full of the names and places that influ- and Labrador Women, Marian Frances White has
March/April 1993 96
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Thirteen Hands Women on the Transit of Venus Adventures for
by Carol Shields Canadian Stage: by Maureen Hunter (Big) Girls
Bridge, blue rinsers S of Maureen Hunter's Seven Radio Plays
Edited by Ann Jansen
nd c i rscfleosr ytimteel l ianndg that Edited by Rita Much 18th i sce n t au r y w C oel mest ae n o Sa a
delivers memories... | An exciting collection struggling with thes| S511915, a clown
and more—an
Shields, past winner of CSSaYS by Canada's confines of her
adventureous
of the Marian Engle leading feminists, age—its rules on
Award, tums the dramaturges, marriage, feminine anthology of women
mundane into the playwrights and conduct and even on by women with spark
extraordinary. academics. reading! and rebellion!
$11.95 pb $16.95 pb $10.95 pb $16.95 pb
ISBN 0-921368-30-5 ISBN 0-921368-26-7 ISBN 0-921368-29-1 ISBN 0-921368-32-1
assembled a compilation of biographical sketches aptly titled “American Military Straight Women
from six previous editions of A Woman's Almanac. Speak Out.” Lesbian voices are silent here; few of the
The profiles are longer, updated versions of inter- interviewees deigned to speak about lesbianism, and
views that appeared in the Almanac. Herstorically most references to lesbians are made in a negative
appealing, The Finest Kind is a good read as well. context. Perhaps we are supposed to be grateful
$14.95 pb (+ 7% GST), 1-895387-10-8. Creative Pub- that in the two pages specifically dealing with les-
lishers, Robinson-Blackmore Printing & Publishing bians, a concession is made that “usually lesbianism
Ltd., PO Box 8660, St. John’s Newfoundland A1B does not interfere with efficiency or professionalism.”
3T7. Bookslinger, IN. The discussion of feminism here is short and centers
around the ERA; the issue of families, to have or have
In Gathering Rage: The Failure of 20th Century not, is three times as long. Still, there are few books out
Revolutions to Develop a Feminist Agenda, activist on women and the military, and this one might have
and writer Margaret Randall examines how revolu- appeal to women with few alternatives to choose
tions in Nicaragua and Cuba failed to address a femi- from. $14.95 pb, 1-55778-505-8. Paragon House/ Athena
nist agenda. “Combining anecdotes with analysis, she Books, 90 Fifth Ave., New York NY 10011.1IN.
shows how distorted visions of liberation and short-
comings in practice left a legacy that not only short-
changed women but undermined the revolutionary
project itself.” $12 pb, 0-85345-861-8; $28 cl, -860-X.
Monthly Review Press, 122 West 27th St., New York Seeking Common Ground: Multidisciplinary
NY 10001. BP, IN. Studies of Immigrant Women in the United States,
edited by Donna Gabaccia, is divided into three parts:
Sound Off! American Military Women Speak the first presents three chapters by an historian, a
Out by Dorothy and Carl J. Schneider should be more sociologist and an anthropologist summarizing the
97
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
development of research on immigrant women; the 1-86373-07808. Published by Allen & Unwin/Aus-
second looks at “Immigrant Women of the Past” tralia and distributed in the U.S. by Paul and Com-
while the third examines “Immigrant Women Since pany Publishers Consortium, c/o PCS Data
1920.” Focuses on immigrant women from Europe, Processing, 360 W. 31st St., New York NY 10001.
Latin America and Asia. $17.05 pb, 0-275-94387-9.
Praeger Publishers, One Madison Ave., New York NY Lorraine Hepburn examines the impact of new
10010, an imprint of Greenwood Press, PO Box 5007, reproductive technology (primarily in vitro fertiliza-
Westport CT 06881. tion) on the lives of Australian women in Ova-Dose?
In looking at the moral, ethical, political and commer-
cial aspects of the issue, she argues that new technol-
ogy erodes, rather than enhances, the existing level of
Australian women’s reproductive self-determination
Amazon Bookstore in Minneapolis and Oscar $16.95 pb, 1-86373-056-7. Published by Allen &
Wilde Memorial Bookshop in New York City have the Unwin/Australia and distributed in the U.S. by Paul
distinction of being the first lesbian-feminist and les- and Company Publishers Consortium, c/o PCS Data
bian and gay bookstores in the U.S. The Chicago-based Processing, 360 W. 31st St., New York NY 10001.
Women and Children First is the largest feminist store
in the U.S. in annual volume and Lambda Rising takes For those considering childbirth options, Birth
that category as the largest lesbian and gay store. These Stories: Mystery, Power, and Creation by Jane
are just a few of the entries in Alyson Publication’s The Dwinel], R.N., is a wonderful read. Written as a series
First Gay Pope and Other Records, a book which of anecdotes about Dwinell’s former patients, Birth
describes its editor Lynne Yamaguchi Fletcher as “the Stories is an informative, comfortable, and educa-
first lesbian to compile a book of gay and lesbian firsts tional book about childbearing, giving women back
and records.” This volume collects firsts in subjects the power that the medical establishment has tried to
ranging from the arts and the media to law, politics, take away. $12.95 pb, 0-89789-304-2; $39.95 cl, -296-8.
religion, education and history. $7.95 pb, 1-55583-206- Bergin & Garvey/Greenwood Publishing, 88 Post
7. Alyson Publications, 40 Plympton St., Boston MA Road West, Westport CT 06881. National Book Net-
02118. InBook, IN, BP and others. work, Inc.
Authors Kerry McGinn and Pamela Haylock set AIDS: Four Men Speak Out is more pamphlet
out to review not a few, but all treatment, prevention than book, companion to the previously reviewed
and self-help options for breast, pelvic, uterine, ovarian AIDS: Four Women Speak Out. Both look at AIDS and
and even rare gynecologic cancers in Women’s Can- HIV status from a personal vantage point. This book-
cers: How to Prevent Them, How to Treat Them, How let also includes a one-page definition of AIDS and a
to Beat Them. McGinn and Haylock, both registered page of safer sex / safer injection tips. Even if you don’t
nurses, hope their upfront, comprehensive guide will have a gay men’s section, consider having a few cop-
“be a book that empowers women and encourages ies of this available in your store. $3.50 pb (terms: 40%
them to be knowledgeable and assertive healthcare for 5 or more). AIDS Vancouver Island, 304 - 733
consumers.” They also encourage women to take their Johnson £t., Victoria BC, Canada V8W 3C7.
fight into the political arena. $14.95 pb, 0-89793-102-5;
$24.95 c], -103-3. Hunter House, 2200 Central Ave.,
Suite 202, Alameda CA 94501-4451. BP, IN.
Psychotherapist Betty McLellan takes a feminist If you have a religion section, consider Changing
look at the causes of anxiety in women and ways in Women, Changing Church a tribute to Patricia Bren-
which to relieve that anxiety in her down-to-earth nan, foundation president of the Movement for the
guide Overcoming Anxiety: A Positive Approach to Ordination of Women. Edited by Marie Louise Uhr,
Dealing with Severe Anxiety in Your Life. $16.95 pb, Changing Women, Changing Church presents some
March/April 1993 98
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
of the best-known names in Christian feminist man. $15.95 pb, 0-93663-07-3. Yes International Publish-
thought debating the roles of women in the church. ers, 1317 Summit Ave., St. Paul MN 55105. Atrium
$8.95 pb, 0-85574-909-1. Millennium Books, an im- Publishers Group.
print of E.J. Dwyer, 3\32-72 Alice St., Newtown NSW
2042 Australia. Distributed by Morehouse Publishing,
871 Ethan Allen Hwy., Suite 204, Ridgefield CT 06877.
In another religious offering, Denise Carmody Women’s Rights in Old Testament Times by
explores the intersection of Christianity and feminism James Baker is an academic text that helps to illumi-
in Virtuous Woman: Reflections on Christian Femi- nate the role of women in ancient times. $17.95 pb,
nist Ethics. $16.95 pb, 0-88344-817-3. Orbis Books, 1-56085-029-9. Signature Books, 350 South 400 East
Maryknoll NY 10545. IN. Suite G-4, Salt Lake City UT 84111. IN.
Women’s relationship with spirituality ranges over Maxine Hanks has edited Women and Author-
a wide variety of principles and doctrines, with beliefs ity: Re-emerging Mormon Feminism, an anthology
being as varied as women themselves. The Spiral Path: exploring the history and present state of Mormon
Explorations in Women’s Spirituality is a new edition feminism. 460 pages. $19.95 pb, 1-56085-014-0. Signa-
of an anthology edited by Theresa King that documents ture Books, 350 S. 400 East , Suite 4, Salt Lake City UT
this diversity. Here 22 writers (20 women, two men) 84111. Ingram, Gordon’s, Baker & Taylor.
share their personal perspectives on women and spiri-
tuality. The book is a little full of Judeo- Christian-based The Wisdom of Women, edited by Carol Spenard
religion, but is not exclusively focused on religion per LaRusso, collects quotes and very short excerpts from
se. Titles include “Self-Image and Spirituality: Coming the writings of 75 prominent women from around the
Home to Our Bodies” by Louise M. Pare and “Sex and world. $11.95 c], 1-880032-09-0. New World Library, 58
Spirituality: Sexuality as Holiness” by Joan Timmer- Paul Drive, San Rafael CA 94903. IN. O
/
How we communicated in the beginning How we are telling our stories in the 90s...
C
R
Deathless Prose
Distributed by the INLAND BOOK COMPANY
E sd
99 March/April 1993
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsNew Paperbacks
Dishing It Out
Waitresses and Their Unions
in the Twentieth Century
Dorothy Sue Cobble
“A carefully documented, splendidly written
and imaginatively argued history of the
successful craft unions waitresses forged
and sustained for over 50 years.” — Patricia
Cooper, Women’s Review of Books. Illus.
CI: $34.95; Pb: $14.95
Once a Cigar Maker
Men, Women, and Work Culture
On Intimate Terms in American Cigar Factories,
1900-1919
The Psychology of Difference Patricia A. Cooper
in Lesbian Relationships
“A powerful analysis of work, gender, and the
Beverly Burch union movement that insightfully moves us
An exploration of the power of psychosexual differences to attract beyond simplifications about craft union
and bond women to each other. “Regardless of one’s sexual elitism and sexism.” — Daniel J. Walkowit2,
orientation, there is much to learn here about the nature of love Journal of Social History. Illus. Cl: $34.95;
and its unconscious determinants.” — Publishers Weekly. Cl: $27.50 PD S15195
The Challenge of Feminist Biography Language Unbound
Writing the Lives of Modern American Women On Experimental Writing
Edited by Sara Alpern, Joyce Antler, Elisabeth by Women
Israels Perry, and Ingrid Winther Scobie Nancy Gray
A workshop-in-print on the biographical construction of modern Gray uses feminist literary theory to illus-
American women’s lives. Ten contributors uncover the tools trate how Gertrude Stein, Virginia Woolf,
appropriate to writing women’s biography and reveal how Dorothy Richardson, Ntozake Shange, E. M.
feminist scholarship led them to approach women’s lives in Broner, and Monique Witting challenge
nontraditional ways. Illus. Cl: $44.95; Pb: $14.95 conventional expectations, blur boundaries
between fact and fiction, and render con-
Working Women of Collar City structs of race, class, and sex untenable.
Gender, Class, and Community in Troy, 1864-86 “Feminist theorists should pay åttention
Carole Turbin to this text.” — Review of Contemporary
Fiction. Cl: $32.50; Pb: $12.95
A major contribution to the debate on gender and work. Turbin
examines the case of Troy, New York, which in the 1860s pro- Order toll free 800/545-4703
duced nearly all the nation’s detachable collars and cuffs. The
laundresses’ union was officially the nation’s first women’s labor University of Illinois Press
organization, and one of the best organized. Illus.:Cl: $39.95
54 East Gregory Drive e Champaign, IL 61820
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
1e P
By Ann Christophersen works with a rough-and-tumble secular world — anti-
Christian, anti-emotional, and, most of all, anti-
The lead title on the Spring lists comes from Ox- woman.” A plausible-sounding thesis.
ford University Press. It is Gerda Lerner’s The Cre- The literary offerings of Oxford include a useful
ation of Feminist Consciousness: From the Middle “biographical dictionary” of women in Greek and
Ages to 1870 ($25 c], 0195066049). The long-awaited Roman myth — Women of Classical Mythology, by
second volume in her magnum opus, Women in His- Robert E. Bell ($12.95 pb, 0192831305); Dorothy
tory, it follows the publication in 1986 of The Creation Wordsworth’s personal memoirs, The Grasmere
of Patriarchy, one of the most important books in Journals, edited by Pamela Woof ($12.95 pb,
women’s history and theory published in the last two 0192831305, April); three volumes of poems in the
decades and one of the all-time bestselling books in “Women Writers in English 1350-1850" series, includ-
the area of women’s studies. In the new book, Lerner ing The Poems and Prose of Mary, Lady Chudleigh
documents the 1,200-year struggle of women to free ($18.95 pb, 0195083601, April), The Poems of Char-
their minds from patriarchal thought, create women’s lotte Smith ($16.95 pb, 019508358X, April) and The
history ‚and achieve a feminist consciousness. One of Poems of Aeemilia Lanyer ($16.95 pb, 019508351X,
the pre-eminent scholars in women’s history, Gerda April).
Lerner is also an inspiring teacher and speaker. She
details.
Another history from Oxford is New Women of
the New South: The Leaders of the Woman Suffrage For the general politics and health shelves, there
Movement in Southern States ($18.95 pb, 0- are two books feminist bookstores might consider. The
195082451). Written by Marjorie Spull Wheeler, it fo- most recent from the indefatigable Henry Louis Gates,
cuses on 11 prominent leaders from the region of the Loose Canons: Notes on the Culture Wars, is coming
country that had the hardest fight and least success in in paper ($9.95 pb, 0195083504, May). It’s about multi-
trying to get the vote, the latter due in large part to a culturalism, specifically the necessity of fostering cul-
strategy that tried to capitalize on a fear of the voting tural understanding as the only means of reducing the
strength of newly enfranchised African-Americans. tensions of nationalism, racism and sexism. Enemies of
In literary criticism, Jane Tompkins has written a Patients: How Doctors Are Losing Their Power...
new book for critics interested in popular culture and Patients Are Losing Their Rights ($25 c], 0195072006,
the literary canon. In West of Everything: The Inner April), by Ruth Macklin (a professor of bioethics) con-
Life of Westerns ($10.95 pb, 0195082680), she argues tributes to the growing awarenc¢ess that the ethical treat-
that “Westerns originated as a reaction against the ment and rights of patients are increasingly threatened
female-dominated popular fiction of the mid-19th by the rapid technological developments in medicine
century and the invasion of the public sphere by and the economic crisis of health care.
women which followed it. The Western countered the Finally, two books for the fairy tale section and
inwardness, spirituality, and domesticity of these one to put next to Vivian Paley in child development.
Volume 15 Number 6
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsAlexander Doty Laura Kipnis Maria Damon
Making Things Ecstasy Unlimited The Dark End of the Street
Perfectly Queer On Sex, Capital, Gender, Margins in American
Interpreting Mass Culture and Aesthetics Vanguard Poetry
Doty argues that films, televi- Foreword by Paul Smith Damon foregrounds a number
sion, and other forms of mass A unique collection of essays on of modern American poets work
culture consistently elicit a wide popular culture, politics, aes- and lives in order to argue that
range of queer (sexually limi- thetics, feminism, and postmod- the American avant-garde is
nal) responses, and suggests an ernism, along with complete located in the experimental liter-
interpretive framework for scripts from three of Kipnis’ ary works of social “outsiders.”
understanding mass culture that videotapes. Discussed is the work of
stands as a corrective to many $18.95 paper $49.95 cloth Black/Jewish surrealist street
standard cultural approaches. VHS videotapes also available poet Bob Kaufman, Boston-
$15.95 paper $39.95 cloth Brahmin Robert Lowell and
Janet Walker three teenaged women writing
Constance Penley and Couching Resistance from a South Boston housing
Sharon Willis, editors Women, Film, and project, pre-Stonewall gay poets
Male Trouble Psychoanalytic Psychiatry Jack Spicer and Robert Duncan,
In detailed and provocative Explores how American psy- and Jewish lesbian-in-exile
examinations of contemporary choanalytic psychiatry and Gertrude Stein.
images of masculinity, the con- Hollywood cinema between $17.95 paper $44.95 cloth
tributors provide a thought-pro- World War II and the mid-
voking, comprehensive study of 1960s negotiated women’s psy-
masculinity in American culture chosexuality and life experi-
today. “A significant interven- ence. “Exciting and rich.”
tion. . .. Bold, innovative, and Dana Polan
sophisticated.” Judith Mayne $16.95 paper $44.95 cloth
$16.95 paper $39.95 cloth 2037 University Ave. S.E.
1-800-388-3863
102
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsm
=F tin RAAI I A
Alison Lurie has edited what sounds like a wonderful on Arab women’s changing lives. Written By Herself:
collection, The Oxford Book of Modern Fairy Tales Literary Production by African American Women
($25 c], 0192142186, June). I don’t have a complete list 1746-1892 by Frances Smith Foster ($12.95 pb,
of the 40 contributors, but it includes Ursula LeGuin 025320786X, June) is the first comprehensive cultural
and Louise Erdrich and claims to include work by history of literature by African-American women be-
“experimental, Native American and feminist writ- fore the 20th century. The Mexican Corrido: A Femi-
ers.” As long as Louise Erdrich isn’t the sole author nist Analysis, by Maria Herrera-Sobeck ($10.95 pb,
filling all those slots, it looks promising. Howard 0253207959) looks at more than a thousand ballads
Schwartz adds to his three previous collections of depicting women’s roles in Mexican society.
J cae lw i Ts ah l e sf o (l $k 2t 5a ,l e s 0 1 w 95i 0th 62 9G 22ab , r i Mel a’s y ) .P a Bla oc te h: J are ew is ah va ilM aby ls eti- |4
only in cloth, as is Iona Opie’s The People in the |
Playground, a description of life as it is lived by chil- 1
dren at play. A few more miscellaneous titles from IU: Women
Turning now to Indiana University Press, there of Science: Righting the Record (G. Kass-Simon and
are, as usual, several titles to point out. IU’s lead title Patricia Farnes, eds., $14.95 pb, 0253207975) is about
is for feminist bookstores that — understanding the the many contributions women have made to science,
inextricable link between sexism and racism — carry not only to the field as it is traditionally known but
key titles exposing either form of oppression. In Un- also by opening new areas of inquiry. Voices of Amer-
equal Justice: A Question of Color ($14.95 pb, ican Homemakers, edited by Eleanor Arnold ($10.95
0253207835), Coramae Richey Mann demonstrates in pb, 0253207991) is the transcription of an oral history
convincing academic terms what we already know in capturing the experiences and viewpoints of home-
lay terms: minorities in the US do not receive equal makers as children, wives, and mothers. It also con-
treatment from the criminal justice system. tains 98 black-and-white photos. Arnold's words
A special issue of Hypatia that will do well in the about the project are touching: “The basic tenet...has
lesbian section is Lesbian Philosophy, edited by been to prove, both to the world and to these women
Claudia Card (Vol. 7#4, $12.95 pb, 0253300053). It themselves, that their lives have value, dignity and
includes 15 essays with provocative titles such as “In worth.” A worthy undertaking, indeed.
Praise of Blame,” “Mother: The Legal Domestication Because there is still so little written about femi-
of Lesbian Existence” and “The Male Lesbian and the nist aesthetics, any contribution to the field would be
Postmodernist Body.” welcome. Aesthetics in Feminist Perspective, edited
by Hilde Heir and Carolyn Korsmeyer ($14.95 pb,
0253207746, June) looks very solid, with essays by
Marilyn French, Michele Wallace, and Josephine Don-
ovan, among others. Another anthology, Mothers’
Continuing its commitment to books. by and First-Born Daughters: Early Shaker Writings on
about women of color, the press is making anothcr Women and Religion (Jeran M. Humez, cd., $17.50
contribution to the growing literature available on pb, 0253207444, May) focuses the continuing interest
Arab women. Arab Women: Old Boundaries, New in this celibate religious community on the contribu-
Frontiers, edited by Judith Tucker ($14.95 pb, tions women made during its first 70 years. Finally,
0253207762, June) is a collection of 13 essays focusing the essays in The Politics of the Essay: Feminist
Volume 15 Number 6 103 March/April 1993
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Perspectives (Ruth-Ellen Boetcher Joeres and Eliza-
This spring, beth Mittman, eds., $12.95 pb, 0253207886, May) “ex-
amines the intersection of gender and genre that
the women presents itself when women write essays.” There are
others to order from IU, too, but this gives you an idea
of what is coming through June.
are singing Columbia is the last press I will present in some
detail before mentioning a few titles from five other
in Arizona. presses. Four of the five titles that I ordered most
heavily from Columbia’s Spring list are written by
French feminist theorists. Shifting Scenes: Interviews
on Women, Writing, and Politics in Post-68 France is
edited by Alice Jardine and Ann Menke ($14 pb,
0231067739, May). It contains interviews with 15 of the
The Women Are Singing most important French fiction writers, critics and the-
Poems and Stories by Luci Tapahonso orists, including Helene Cixous, Luce Irigaray, Julia
Navajo writer Luci Tapahonso shares memories of her home in Kristeva, Marguerite Duras, and Monique Wittig. Luce
Shiprock, New Mexico, and of the places and people there. Irigaray has a new book, a collection of lectures, Sexes
“It is the work of a woman aware of her relationships to stars and Geneologies ($14 pb, 0231070330, April). In these
a dn ecd i s ic ol nif sf , s — anp dla y yf eu tl wan ard m s t ar non d g l oe vn io nu gg h e n t oo u g hm a tk oe sh he ar r e o w wn hat she she examines the continued neglect by psychoanalysts
feels.” —Roberta Hill Whiteman $9.95 paper of the sexual and gender dimensions of therapy, the
urgency of a female divinity for feminist movements,
Mother’s Letters and a reconsideration of women’s relation to the mar-
Essays by Elizabeth Hampsten ket economy. Julia Kristeva also has a new book, Na-
This series of autobiographical essays focuses on one woman’s tions without Nationalism ($18.50 cl, 0231081049,
relationships to members of her family over several genera- April). Like the Henry Louis Gates book mentioned
tilonisn—ink w h icth ohe r lahte emroth er ’sp leattserts .pr o vi$de 1 an4 i.m9po5rta nt paper earlier, Kristeva’s takes up the argument that otherness
must be understood and accepted if we are to move
Infinite Divisions beyond oppression and the chaos too often induced in
our response to difference. Finally, Helen Cixous has a
An eA dn itt eh do l o bg yy To ef y C Dh ii ac na an a R eL bit oe lr lea dt ou r e & Eliana S. Rivero Wne rw it inbo go k ($ 1o 9n .9 5w r ci ]t , in 0g 2, 3 1T 0h 76r 5ee 8 4 ,S t Jep us n eo ).n the Ladder of
This first major anthology devoted to the genre is organized by
themes that highlight the concerns of Mexican American £
women from 1848 to the present and reflect the modern |
Chicana’s struggle for identity. $19.95 paper
A Full Life in a Small Place In its “Gay and Lesbian Studies” series Columbia
and Other Essays from a Desert Garden is publishing a paper edition of A Lure of Knowledge:
by Janice Emily Bowers Lesbian Sexuality and Theory, by Judith Roof ($14.50
Sixteen eloquent essays show how backyard gardening opens pb, 0231074875). She argues that “attempts to depict
au sp aa sb eer do a d ce ar t a la op gp r ie nc i a wti io nn t e ro .f P b eo ot ph le l wif he o a n gd ar dl eiv ni —ng a. n d “ A ps e o i pr lr eesistible lesbian sexuality spur anxieties about knowledge and
who never will—are sure to recognize their own private thirst identity and that lesbian sexuality is thus represented
for miracles, asked and answered, in this book.” —Barbara as foreplay, simulated heterosexuality, erotic excess,
Kingsolver, author of Another America $13.95 paper joking inauthenticity, or artful compromise.” Also,
there is a new edition of Eve Kosofsky Sedgwick’s
The University of Arizona Press Between Men: English Literature and Male Homo-
1230 N. Park Ave., Tucson AZ 85719 / 1-800-426-3797 sexual Desire ($15.50 pb, 0231082738). There are other
titles from Columbia in literary and film criticism and
March/April 1993 104
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
m p
It
history, but I will leave those for you to discover when Polakow ($22.50 0226671836) forces the point that the
you are ordering. feminization and “infantilization” of poverty requires
Now for one or two titles each from publishers solution at the level of public policy. In May, Chicago
with enough backlist that 40 percent discount will be will also publish trade editions of Margaret
easy to get. University of New Mexico is publishing a Laurence’s. The Stone Angel ($10.95, 0226469360),
biography of Frida Kahlo, Frida Kahlo: An Open Life The Diviners ($9.95, 0226469344), and Bird in the
($18.95 cl, 082631418X, April). It is written by Mexican House ($9.95, 0226469433). I have only read one of this
art critic and historian Raquel Tibol who, after Canadian novelist’s fictions, but based on that one I
befriending Diego Rivera, went to Mexico City and highly recommend feminist stores carry these.
then met and lived with Kahlo. I don’t know what the
various relationships were here, but it will be interest-
ing to find out and to get this insider’s view of Kahlo. SHATTERED
The biography is not new, but this is a new English APPLAUSE
translation by Elinor Randall. The Lives of
A unique collection is coming from the University Eva Le Gallienne
of Massachusetts Press, Working-Class Women in the Robert A. Schanke.
Academy: Laboring in the Knowledge Factory (Mi- “F To hre ew ao cr td r e sb sy w M ha oy Sarton.
chelle M. Tokarczyk and Elizabeth A. Fay, eds., $18.95 wouldn't pretend....
pb, 0870238353, May). The 20 essays address the follow- Schanke'’s thesis is
ing questions: What are the issues — pedagogical, the- that LeG’s stature as an
o pr re ivti ac ta el , l ia vn ed s p ofer s to hn ea sl e — w o mth ea nt ? a f Hf oe wct d t oh e t h p er yo f re ess si oo ln veal and a i Rsc m et vr . ie ” es ws — w B (1a a 8s r 2 b 0as -re 2r a ) i o G $u 3s e 9l ly b .9, 5 h Nu er wt b Yy o r kh e r T i mfr ea sn k B o ole ksbian-
tensions between their roles as middle-class profession-
als and their roots in working-class families? How do SILENCE AND POWER
class and gender intersect in the academy? Interesting A Reevaluation of Djuna Barnes
questions, I would say. Also from UMass is Unbroken Edited by Mary Lynn Broe with an Afterword by
Thread: An Anthology of Plays by Asian American Catharine Stimpson. “The most important book
Women (Roberta Uno, ed., $18.95 pb, 0870238566, August). on this important wr i —ter .” Review of Contemporary Fiction
University of Chicago has several titles of interest (1255-7) $13.95 paper / (1250-6) $29.95 cloth
t Eh cois n o t mim ice , M t ah ne : Fm eo mst in ii sm t p Tor ht ea on rt y o af n d w h Ei cc oh n o mis i cB s,eyond THE RI G AH NT DS GO AF Y L E MS EB NIANS
edited by Marianne A. Ferber and Julie A. Nelson The Basic ACLU Guide to
($12.95, 0226242013, June). This sounds like a very a Gay Person’s Rights
provocative collection of essays, the main argument of Third Edition
which is that “the discipline of economics could be Nan D. Hunter, Sherryl E. Michaelson, and
improved by freeing itself from masculine biases.” I Thomas B. Stoddard. This is the most com-
particularly like the twist that the problem with tradi- plete guide to the present law. (1634-X) $7.95
tional economics is not that it is too objective but that
it is not objective enough, limited by a too narrow ` S OUNUITVHERESRITNY PIRLELSISNOIS
frame of reference. Lives on the Edge: Single Mothers DEPT. FBN33, P.O. BOX 3697, CARBONDALE, IL 62902-3697
and Their Children in the Other America by Valerie
Volume 15 Number 6 105 March/April 1993
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
University of Illinois Press is doing a few really
interesting books. Feminist Messages: Coding in
Women’s Folk Culture, edited by Joan Newlon Rad-
ner ($18.95 pb, 0252062671, May, 23 photographs)
sounds just fascinating. “Coding” is covertly express-
ing subversive or disturbing ideas in either a deliber-
ate or unconscious way. This volume looks at these
expressions as revealed in mediums such as quilts,
crafts, stories, and the daily routines of women.
Grace Paley’s Life Stories: A Literary Biography
(0252062671) was written by a former Chicagoan of
wit, perception, and devotion to her subject, Judith
Arcana. Though only in cloth and therefore expen-
sive ($26.95), it will be of interest to Grace Paley fans
and anyone interested enough in the connections
A HISTORY between peace, justice and art to lay out the bucks to
read about this woman, mother, activist, and Jew. The
other Illinois title I want to mention is A New Spe-
OF WOMEN cies: Gender and Science in Science Fiction ($12.95
pb, 0252062841, August). Robin Roberts “explores
the legacy of male SF writers, utopia as a feminist
INTHE WEST response to patriarchy, and science fiction and
postmodernism.”
Georges Duby and Michelle Perrot,
General Editors
VOLUME II
Silences of the Middle Ages Harvard is bringing out the third volume in its A
EDITED BY CHRISTIANE KLAPISCH-ZUBER History of Women in the West. This volume is Renais-
Drawing on myriad sources—from the faint traces sance and Enlightment Paradoxes, edited by Natalic
left by the rocking of a cradle at the site of an early Zernon Davis and Arlette Farge ($29.95: c],
medieval home to an antique illustration of Eve's fall 067440372X, May). This series has proven to be very
from grace—this second volume in the celebrated impressive, and we have had respectable sales even
series offers new perspectives on women of the past. though it is somewhat expensive. A very provocative
T trw iee slv e e x d amist inin eg u ti hsh e e d im h agis et o or fia n ws o mfr eò nm i nm a tn hy e c mou asn c- uline t A Mi rt al t ue i d s tf : Er lo S lm mta r a nvH nia n r g v (, $a 1 r W 9d . 9r 5t it ,h i i ns 0g 6 , 7s 4e aa 4ns 2o d 7n 0 , 5I Xm i )n p . r Sic s hl oo ent h m a, se k ni sts , — T bh y e a n H dunger
mind, their social condition, and their daily experi- answers — questions I suspect many of us have
ence from the demise of the Roman Empire to the thought about: how has the act of eating become the
genesis of the Italian Renaissance. metaphor for compliance, starvation the language of
Belknap protest? How doces the rejection of food become the
57 halftones/$29.95 cloth ISBN 0-674-40371-1 rejection of intolerable social constraints? What is
achieved at the culmination of such a protest, that is,
at the moment of death?
Harvard University Press There were more books I planned to write about —
Cambridge, MA 02138 (617) 495-2480 from California, Temple, Yale, New York University
Presses — but this has gone on long enough. I will pick
up these and others in the next edition of FBN. ©
March/April 1993 106 Volume 15 Number 6
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Revised Edition
Edited, with critical commentary,
by Ellen Carol DuBois
Foreword by Gerda Lerner
own powerful and memorable voices.
$37.50 cloth © $14.95 paper
Revised Edition
EIGHTY YEARS
AND MORE
Reminiscences 1815-1897
Elizabeth Cady Stanton
Introduction by Ellen Carol DuBois
Afterword by Ann Gordon
“This powerfully written book is essential
r n me o oa td v i en o mng el y n f to str ,h e ba n u o ty r o in tg hie n e sw n h o afo t u rw t eho e u ol fd w o Au mn med n ee r’r s is c t ara nin gd hts R Rev Eise Td H E Id Nitio Kn ING THE FAMILY
society in Stanton’s era.” Some Feminist Questions
— Eric Foner, Columbia University Edited by Barrie Thorne with Marilyn Yalom
$37.50 cloth • $14.95 paper
Fourteen essays situated in the context of what feminism’s
CHILDREN IN critics have referred to as the current “family crisis.”
THE HOUSE Contributors from a wide variety of disciplines
analyze issues such as abortion access and the
The Material Culture of Early divorce rate, and interpret the forces
Childhood, 1600-1900 behind this supposed “crisis” in new
Karin Calvert a $n 3d 7. 5 p 0 r o cv loo tc hative ways.
Karin Calvert is particularly attentive to $14.95 paper
notions of genderin this 300-year survey of
American conceptions of early childhood.
She argues persuasively that childhood is
primarily a social invention that provides
much more information about adults than
about children.
“An engrossing study.” — Library Journal
$30.00 cloth
107 March/April 1993
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsМИОТОВЫ ИТЕ УТО
ТЕТЕТИЫ
А СВООР ОҒ ЕХТВАОВОГМАВУ ЈЕМІЅН
МОМЕМ ЈОЦА МЕҮ ТО СРІВІТОАСІТУ | ог оуег Нееп уеогз ап ітргеѕѕіуе дгоир
ТНВООСН СОММОМІТУ АМО СЕВЕМОМҮУ оѓ Ғетіпіѕіѕ һаѕ даіћегеі іо сеіеђгаїе а тоге
іпсіиѕіуе Раѕѕоуег, аНігт е ргеѕепсе оі
мотеп іп Јеміѕһ һіѕіогу, апі ехріоге еіг
таігіїпеаде. е ТеЙіпо і еіг хіогу—Іугі-
сої, еуосаїїуе, апа роїіісаїїу агоеі, іі іпіег-
меауеѕ е ромегіці іогіе оё ће рагіїсірапі
алеі сиЇтіпаіех мії а міѕіопагу Ғетіпіі
Наддайаћ. Те ТеЙілд і а ипідие іехіатепі
и у То е ромег оѓ мотеп гесіаітіпо #ћеіг ѕрігі-
б аі апа сгеаіїпо соттипііу іп ће ргосеѕ.
09 “еіуеѕ іпіо е ѕоиі оғ Мотапһооі... ке
орепіпо ир һтап һііогу апі ріасіпо а іі-
ІМСІЦБІМО ТНЕ ШОМАМ5 НАССАРАН Ғегепі һеагі апі а іїегепі ѕоші іп іі.”
— Веһа АБлид
ё НагрегЅапЕгапсіѕсо Нагісоиег • $18.00 • 15ВМ 0-06-060871-4
А Оігізіоп оү НагрегСотх Рие
Ао агайаМе рот НагрегСопх Санал л.
Магсһ/ Аргі! 1993 108 Моите 15 МитЬег 6
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsTE FEemiInist Bookstore News
tion with a lesbian protagonist. Described by the pub-
lisher as “by turns funny, poignant, and shocking,”
the story is about what happens when Mary Frazier
Armstrong is told she is dying and decides to come
ATLANTIC MONTHLY out to everyone who doesn't know she’s a lesbian and
The Tyranny Of Kindness by Theresa Funiciello then finds out she's not dying after all.
is an indictment of America’s welfare system by a
woman who was a welfare mother and whose endless
nightmare with the system led her to become an ad- Zl;
vocate and organizer of other welfare mothers.
Funiciello tells us the hard day-to-day realities of liv- BALLANTINE AND FAWCETT
ing on welfare and surviving poverty and the impos- COLUMBINE Trade
sible choices between food, clothing, health care and Court of Appeal ed. by Robert Chrisman and Robert
shelter. She shows how the social service sector has Allen ($9 pb, 0-345-38136-X, Ballantine) was published
become a self-serving, ever-expanding business in last fall but deserves mention as an important book
which the poor become lost. She details how money detailing the reaction of the African American commu-
for the poor fattens the bureaucracy and why so little nity to the Clarence Thomas hearings and Anita Hill's
is accomplished with more and more money. She fá- testimony, combining analysis and opinion. Among
vors bypassing the bureaucracy to give monetary as- the contributors are a great many women writers, in-
sistance directly to the pòor as a guaranteed income. cluding Barbara Smith, Gloria T. Hull, June Jordon, and
($22 c], 0871135434, June) — Sandi Torkildson Maya Angelou.
Here All Dwell Free: Short Stories to Heal the
BANTAM Trade Wounded Feminine by Gertrude Mueller Nelson ($12
Long Quiet Highway by Natalie Goldberg ($20 pb, 0-449-90789-9, Fawcett) uses two classic Grimm’s
c], 0-553-07245-5) is subtitled “Waking Up in Amer- fairy tales and Jungian analysis to attempt to show
ica” and focuses on moments of illumination in her life how the Feminine is most often wounded and how to
aas t weaeclhl e ra s o tfh ew rdiatiilnyg . work of being a student of Zen and tr ye ps e.tore the rightful power and passion of the arche-
New Life, New Friends: Making and Keeping The War Against Women by Marilyn French
Relationships in Recovery by Christine Baldwin and makcs its first appearance in trade paperback. It is a
Cynthia Orange ($11 pb, 0-553-35463-9, April) pro- well documented, frightening and infuriating indict-
vides guidance in transforming old relationships and ment of the repression of women ($10 pb, 0-345-38248-
developing new ones, creating boundaries and taking X, Ballantine). Appearing simultaneously will be the
risks. Baldwin is known for her work in using journal first trade paperback edition of her novel The Women’s
Writing in recovery. Room ($10 pb, 0-345-38181-5).
Venus Envy by Rita Mae Brown ($22.50 cl], 0-553- Dreaming in Cuban by Cristina Garcia ($10 pb,
91020-5, May) is Brown’s long-awaited return to fic- 0-345-38143-2, Ballantine), a first novel, received
Volume 15 Number 6 March/April 1993
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
SEXUALITY |
on Women arit LanGtt
Motherhood and Sexuality
Marie Langer
Translation, Introduction, and Afterword by
Nancy Caro Hollander
wut a a aWn S mtae L“ aN na gn ec ry ’s C ia mr po o rH to al nl tan d we or r kh a ts o d ao nn e E na g lw iso hn -d se pr ef akul i n gjo b a u o df ie nb cr ei .n ...g Ii tn s g c oM na -rie
cerns predate by two decades many of the debates feminist psychoan-
Women and Families alytic theorists and clinicians have been engaged in since the middle
Feminist Reconstructions '70s and provide crucial material to further that inquiry...
Kristine M. Baber and Katherine R. Allen —Susie Orbach, author of Hunger Strike
“A wise and daring book....Its strength is its unflinching recognition 305 Pages, 1992, Hardcover, ISBN 0-89862-093-7, $35.00
of the diversity of women’s experiences in family. At last we have a Friendships Between Women
book that embraces lesbians as women and family....This is an A Critical Review
essential resource for anyone concerned with women and family.” Pat O'Connor
—Linda Thompson, Ph.D. “O'Connor's integration of psychological, sociological, and feminist
276 Pages, 1992, Paperback, ISBN 0-89862-208-3, $18.95
perspectives presents the reader with a bold new synthesis of the
Thinking Feminist nature of friendship....The comprehensive analysis O'Connor provides
Key Concepts in Women’s Studies expands our conceptions not only about the nature of women’s
Edited by Diane Richardson and Victoria Robinson relationships, but about how friendships operate in general.”
“An excellent and comprehensive reader....The chapters reveal the — Suzanna Rose, Ph.D.
transformative impact of feminist thinking and activism....This book 228 Pages, 1992, Paperback, ISBN 0-89862-981-0, $17.95
gives fair and serious coverage to the radical feminist perspective at
the same time that it is informed by a postmodern critique and Special Offer In Celebration of
3at 6t 8e n Pt aio gn es , t o 1 9 d 92if , f e Pr ae pn ec re bs a c a km , o In Sg B N w o 0m -8e 9n 8. 6” 2 -— 16C 0a -r 7l ,a $G 18o .l 9d 5en, Ph.D. Women’s History Month!
40% Discount if You Mention this Ad When Orderinsg*
Personality and Psychopathology (*Order must be for 3 to 7 units, can be a mixed order)
Feminist Reappraisals
Edited by Laura 8. Brown and Mary Ballou To receive this special discount, you must order directly from:
Brown and Ballou use feminist theory to push us to the front edges Guilford Publications, Inc.
once more. Here they challenge the very notion of how healthy
personalities develop, carefully pointing out the need to keep any Dept. 75, 72 Spring Street, New York, NY 10012
theory of personality relevant to women’s lives...” @) CALL TOLL-FREE 1-800-365-7006
From area codes 212, 516, 718, and 914, call 212-431-9800
272 Pages, 1992, Hardcover, ISBN 0-89862-774-5, $30.00 FAX #212-966-6708
March/April 1993
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
HRR
i l + HE Elis..
N
much praise and was nominated for the National one of the first women to do professional photogra-
Book Award. Set in Havana and Brooklyn between phy. This book includes 100 of her black-and-white
1972 and 1980, the story concerns four women of three photos, many of which are published here for the first
generations of the Del Piño family, all of whom are time.
spiritual and political exiles. A miniature book (5"x6") which should do well is
Gifts of Age, $4.95 pb, 0-8118-03848. It consists of 24
il pages with 10 black- and-white photos (Julia Child
appears on the cover) taken from the original $16.95
paperback (90,000 plus in print). It comes with an
You're in Charge: A Teenage Girľl’s Guide to Sex envelope and will make a great Mother’s Day gift. An
and Her Body by Niels H. Lauersen, M.D. and Eileen order of 24 of these “BookCards” gets a 47% discount
Stakane ($8 pb, 0-449-90464-4, Fawcett) was written with free freight. The minimum order is 6 copies
for young women aged 11 to 17. It answers questions (43%). They are non-returnable and don’t combine
about puberty, safe sex, birth control, AIDS, STDs, with other books for discount.
alcohol, drugs, eating disorders and stress. — Patty Callaghan, Brigit Books
Partners in Recovery by Beverly Engel ($8 pb,
0-449-90675-2, April, Fawcett) is a guide for friends, HARCOURT BRACE JOVANOVICH
family and supporters of adult survivors of childhood Before I write these annotations, I want to include
sexual abuse, encouraging understanding, belief and my sadness at the passing of our wonderful HBJ rep.
acceptance. Engel is a survivor herself as well as a Jim Chandley was wonderful to us at Charis, helping
therapist. She offers support for partners who may us to get Alice Walker to the store for events three
feel helpless and angry. different times, and Gloria Naylor once. He was un-
The Floating World, Cynthia Kadonata ($8 pb, failingly attentive, kind, and respectful and his death
0-345-38162-9, April, Ballantine) has been available in was a shock and a loss to us. Today, when the new rep
a mass market edition for sometime. Now this novel came to call, she said that she had read through Jim’s
about a Japanese-American family traveling through notes and that he had always spoken so fondly of us
the Pacific Northwest in the 1950s will be available in and of our store.
trade paper as well. Sister Aimee: The Life of Aimee Semple Mc-
— Karen Axness/A Room of One's Own pherson, Daniel Mark Epstein, $27.95 cl, 0151826889.
CHRONICLE BOOKS Looks like a fascinating bio of a woman who lived a
full life before she became a minister, preaching and
Chronicle has two photography books of interest healing across the country in the 20s and 30s.
to feminist bookstores this season. The first is Intimate
Visions: The Photographs of Dorothy Newman, ed.
by Miles Barth, $17.95 pb, 0-81180364-3; $27.5 c1,-0399- Zil:
6, April. Newman was a student of Alfred Stieglitz;
she has a retrospective this spring in New York at the What a thrill to have another book by Tina Mce-
International Center of Photography. Her photos are Elroy Ansa! We had a grcat evening with Ansa when
of artists, Writers, and political figures. The next is Baby of the Family camc out and hope to have her again.
Imogen Cunningham: Ideas Without End, a Life in Ugly Ways, $19.95 cl, 01519225534, takes place in Mul-
Photographs, with text by Richard Lorenz, $22.95 pb, berry, Georgia, and is about a mother’s death and a
0-81180357-0; $35 cl, -0390-2, June. Cunningham was time of reckoning for her three daughters.
Volume 15 Number 6 111 March/April 1993
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Consider This, Senora, Harriet Doerr, $21.95 cl,
K THEBODYOF X 0151931038. Did you read and love Stones For Ibarra as
I did? I am excited to see another book by this fabulous
THE GODDESS FROM writer who won the American Book Award for her
first novel — wasn’t she 70 when she wrote it?? Any-
way, this one is again the story of some US expatriates
living in Mexico; this time a 79-year-old widow and
her 40-year-old daughter are the main characters.
Women At Play: The Story of Women in Base-
ball, Barbara Gregorich, $14.95 cl, pb, 0156982978.
Photographs, interviews, and the history of women
and baseball — including — but not limited to — the
women featured in “A League of Their Own.”
HBJ: CHILDREN’S DIVISION
Real Heroes, Marilyn Kaye, $13.95 cl,
0152005633. I almost never buy young adult in cloth,
but this looks like a hand sell to certain teachers.
Kevin's gym teacher is HIV positive and is being run
out by a group of parents that includes Kevin’s be-
loved father. Mr. Logan is the only adult Kevin has
been able to talk to for a long time and how Kevin
deals with his father on this is the heart of the story.
— Linda Bryant/Charis
HARPERCOLLINS
SOPHIA SHINING
Hank & Chloe, a first novel by Jo-Ann Mapson,
Goddess of Wisdom e ~ WOMAN is a contemporary Western romance set in the dwin-
Caitlin Matthews > s Tarot of the Spirits dling rural canyonlands of Southern California. This
aN n o ew pici n s u rp vea yp e ofr b ta hc ek— 4 Y * R Fra oc mh e ol n e P oo fl l a tc hk e tn io mv ee l' s w ah ite rr eo si sn e , a n C d h l so me a lM l-o tr imga en , h ois r s ea t3 r3 a- iy ne ea rr - wol hd o p la or vt e- s
Goddess—from her foremost tarot her German Shepherd and horse more than any per-
time of prominence experts—an son. That is until Henry Oliver, a laid-back professor
and her varied and evocative tarot based of folklore at the local college, crosses her path. This is
vibrant guises in Y on Goddess lore, a novel of love, courage, and survival amid an ever-
the world’s major aboriginal art, Native shifting landscape. ($20, 0060169435)
religions to her celebrated American legend, and
modern-day resurgence. other spiritual traditions—
“A passport to a journey a beautiful tool for Zil:
of self-discovery from intuitive self-knowledge.
which there can be no Set in an imaginary country in north Africa, Penel-
turning back.”—Gnosis Boxed set with 78 cards ope Lively’s new novel, Cleopatra’s Sister, follows the
Paperback * $15.00 and a companion paperback fate of two lovers and the events that shape their destin-
ISBN 1-85538-275-X $33.00 » ISBN 1-85538-098-6 ies. Paleontologist Howard Beamish and journalist
Lucy Faulkner's planeis forced to land in Callimbia and
& HarperSanFrancisco the British passengers on board are held hostage. This
Ras A A ls oD i v ai vs aio iln a b lo ef f H roar mp e r HC ao rl pli en rs CP ou lb lil nis sh Ce ar ns ada Ltd. X tale illustrates the randomness of events that shape both
history and human life. ($20 cl, 0060166673, April)
March/April 1993 112
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
n B
Ël. i
Public Life, Ellen Akins’s new novel, tells the son stories and a step-by-step guide to awareness and
story of Ann Matter, a former filmmaker who has been reclaiming one’s life. The authors provide women
recruited to market Governor John Anderson in his with practical options, guidance on finding safety and
bid for the presidency. After he wins, she is kept on as support for themselves and their children, along with
his media advisor. Ann herself, however, is won over a list of resources. ($11 pb, 0060923695)
by the president's popular image and unwittingly sets Fathers And Babies by Jean Marzollo is a com-
illusion and reality on a collision course. Akins looks forting and perceptive guide for new fathers who
at how images have come to rule contemporary soci- want to participate in the development of their child’s
ety. ($20 cl, 006016753x, April) earliest months. Marzollo, the author of many books
on child development, covers all aspects of matura-
Zil t icio aln infr o am n ain cct ee sl sle ibct leu a l f o a rn md a t s o wci ia tl h t o m ac nr ye a t div re a w a inn gd s . p h ($y 1s 0-
pb, 0060553227)
The Fifties by Brett Harvey is a collection of oral A first book for survivors of child sexual abuse,
histories of all kinds of women from all over the Beginning To Heal, by Ellen Bass and Laura Davis is
United States. These women remember what thcy a clear and simplified guide based on The Courage to
were thinking then, what their parents told them, and Heal. They have targeted this new guide to survivors
what society expected of them. They talk of the penal- who may not be ready for the scope and intensity of
ties for straying from the straight and narrow, the their first book and to younger readers or those survi-
dangers of illegal abortion, having to leave college to vors with lower literacy skills. It also serves as a por-
get married, and having to lie to a doctor to get birth table companion to their earlier book. They cover the
control. ($20 cl, 0060162791, April) stages of the healing journey with selected sugges-
tions on healing and brief first-person stories. ($8 pb,
Lerner is an exploration of the significance and role of 006096927X, April)
pretending and truth-telling in women’s lives. Lerner For the nearly two million women living with the
shows how pretending is what culture teaches women risk of breast cancer, Challenging The Breast Cancer
to do and truth-telling is the foundation of authentic- Legacy, by Renee Royak-Schaler and Beryl Lieff-
ity, self-regard, intimacy, integrity and joy. She looks Benderly provides emotional support and up-to-date
at why women are often compelled to pretend to medical information. The authors outline a systematic
protect themselves and their relationships and dis- program of self-care that helps women cope with the
cusses the ramifications of pretending and truth-tell- illness and often the loss of a close relative to breast
ing in our most intimate relationships and in society cancer. It also tells women how to determine their own
as a Whole. She provides honest and perceptive guid- risk level, find good medical care and what questions
ance for changing behavior patterns that stand in the to ask. ($10 pb, 0060923733, April)
way of intimacy. ($22 cl, 0060168161, April)
HARPERPERENNIAL (paperbacks) Zil:
When Love Goes Wrong by Ann Jones & Susan
Schechter is a self-help book for every woman with a Little Woman by Ellen Akins is a tough, sassy
controlling and abusive partner. Drawn from the account of a female utopia in the form of a fraudulent
authors’ 15 years of experience working with women home for fallen women in the wilds øf Wisconsin. This
in abusive relationships, this book is full of first-per- reissue of her first novel accompanies the publication
Volume 15 Number 6 113 March/April 1993
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
of her new novel, Public Life, due out in April 1993
Books That Live fromHarperCollins. ($10 pb, 0060923237, April)
Great Short Works Of Willa Cather edited by
Robert Miller includes 10 of Cather’s works (written
Trauma and Survival from 1900 to 1920) covering her coming of age in the
West during the last years of the frontier, her develop-
Post-Traumatic and ing love for the beauty of the grassland and her inter-
Dissociative Disorders est in her Old World neighbors who came to inhabit
in Women her fiction. Included in this collection are notes, a
Elizabeth A. Waites chronology and a bibliography of her work. ($9 pb,
In this groundbreaking work, 0060923768)
E coli nz ca eb pe tt h o fW a fi et mes a lp e r o pp so ys ce hs o la o g yn ,ew ration F r oo fm c hB ia ldsi rc e n B o oo fk s a lcis o h a o l if csu ,l l - il nen g Tt hh e s Aci le cn ohti of li ic c e Fx ap mlo --
supported by research, that ily by Peter Steinglass. This portrait of the effects that
challenges the notion of the pathological or “hysteri- life in an alcoholic family has on all family members
cal” woman. Integrating psychological, legal, challenges many of the commonly held notions of an
sociological, and historical research findings, as well alcoholic family. Steinglass shows that a family’s alco-
as the psychology of women that has evolved over holic identity often holds it together as well as tears it
the last two decades, she offers a new model of apart. ($15 pb, 0465001122, April) — Sandi Torkildson
mental health that considers dissociation and post-
traumatic syndromes as normal reactions to trauma HARPERSANFRANCISCO
and victimization, both within the family and in the An autobiography by Mary Daly? Yup, folks, it’s
wider cultural context. here: Outercourse: The Be-Dazzling Voyage Con-
0-393-70150-6 March 1993 280 pages $32.95 taining Recollections from My Logbook of a Radical
Feminist Philosopher (Be-ing an Account of my
Time/Space Travels and Ideas - Then, Again, Now,
Getting Through and How by Mary Daly ($24 cl, 0-06-250194-1) is now
the Day available. According to the publisher, Daly's “Voyage
through Four Spiral Galaxies involves leaping beyond
ASt dr ua lt te sg i Hes u rf to r as Children t ph ate r im are cn ht ya l , a n p dh , y s ti hc ra ol, u ge hm o tt hio e n a pl r, o ca en sd s osp fi r Rit eu -a ml e w ma bl els r i no gf ,
Nancy J. Napier coming into the fullness of the Expanding Now.”
This book will enable adults Whew. Jacket blurbs by both Harvey Cox and Andrea
who were hurt as children to l £ Dworkin—what a duo. Illustrations by the incredible
learn new strategies to meet the emand s adult Sudie Rakusin. Also, the Daly classic Pure Lust ($16
living—strategies that can make this moment, right pb, 0-06-250208-5) is back in print with Harper SF.
now, more manageable. While focusing on the effects
of dissociation, these strategies will be helpful to
anyone who finds that unresolved childhood feelings Zil
are blocking life’s path; even those with healthy
backgrounds who have merely hit a rough spot in Another “spiritual autobiography” now available
wth ise d or moa .d will benefit greatly from Nancy Napier’s is E.M. Broner’s The Telling: A Group of Extraordi-
0-393-03518-2 June 1993 288 pages $22.95 n Ca or my m J unew iti ys h a nW d o m Cee rn e m J oo nu yr n e ($y 1 8 t o c l ,S p 0ir -0it 6u -a 0l 6it 0y 87 1T -h 4)r .ough
This is the story of contemporary Jewish feminists
W.W. Norton & Company (including Grace Paley, Bella Abzug, Gloria Steinem,
500 Fifth Avenue, New York, New York 10110 Letty Cottin Pogrebin and others) who have gathered
for more than fifteen years to affirm and develop their
March/April 1993 114 Volume 15 Number 6
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
AI LEr J
own sense of what it means to be a Jewish feminist pb, 0-06-250549-1, April). The collection is described
today. The book includes their story as well as songs, as a multicultural collection of essays, stories, pic-
poetry, a visionary feminist Haggadah and a glossary. tures, and poems that focus of shamanic healing. I
A somewhat more historical book (also due in March) wonder if this is what happened to Noble's Snake
is Brenda Meehan’s Holy Women of Russia ($17 cl, Power magazine?
0-06-065472-4), which chronicles the lives of five nine- Her Blood is Gold: Celebrating the Power of
teenth-century Russian women who “craved and cre- Menstruation (13 pb, 0-06-250641-2) by Lara Owen
ated environments that combined monastic solitude includes personal story, history and ritual. Rachel
with a community of like-minded women.” Good for Pollack’s Shining Woman Tarot: The Tarot of the
stores with strong women’s studies sections. Spirits ($33 cl, 1-85538-098-6) is an eclectic tarot deck
based on goddess lore, aboriginal art, Native Ameri-
can and other traditions. The four suits she uses are:
Zil trees, river, birds and stones.
Malcolm Boyd, the famous gay priest, has a new
Jamie Sams, author of the Sacred Path Cards et al., book, Take Off the Masks: The Classic Spiritual
has another book coming out in April: The 13 Origi- Autobiography, Revised with a New Epilogue ($12
nal Clan Mothers: Your Sacred Path to Discovering pb, 0-06-060863-3). Another book for stores that stock
the Gifts, Talents, and Abilities of the Feminine gay male writers is Wonderfully, Fearfully Made:
Through the Ancient Teachings of the Sisterhood Letters on Living with Hope, Teaching Understand-
($20 cl, 0-06-250759-1). Sams, a member of the Wolf ing, and Ministering with Love, from a Gay Catholic
Clan Teaching Lodge, was told by her teachers that Priest with AIDS ($10 pb 0-06-060075-6) by Fr. Robert
she would manifest and share the vision of the thir- L. Arpin.
New out in paper is Diana Souhami’s acclaimed
great name!). Sounds like another very popular and bio, Gertrude and Alice ($14 pb, 0-06-250915-2).
useful book by Sams. Promo biurbs include praise from May Sarton and
Another hot seller should be Zsuzsanna Perdita Shaffner, daughter of H.D. The book was nom-
Budapest's new book, The Goddess in the Office: A inated for a Lambda Literary Award last year. A 16 x
Personal Energy Guide for the Spiritual Warrior at 22 poster (presumably with the cover photo of the
Work ($10 pb, 0-06-250087-2), which is dedicated to dynamic duo) is available from the publisher. Also out
Anita Hill (won my heart right there). Organized by in paper is Charlene Spretnak’s States of Grace: The
day of the week (so you can coordinate it with your Recovery of Meaning in the Post Modern Age ($12
daytimer, I suppose), this resource guide is designed
to help working women use their psychic as well as
intellectual powers to survive and thrive in the world
of work. As a practicing goddess-type myself, I find
this whole idea both hysterically funny and very sen-
sible. The only problem will be deciding where to Marcia Falk has done a new feminist translation
shelve this book. : of The Song of Songs ($12 pb, 0-06-250306-5) with
Vickie Noble, creator of the Motherpeace tarot, illustrations by Barry Moser. Marcia Falk is a widely
also has a new book that we will all want to have: published translator of Hebrew and Yiddish poetry.
Uncoiling the Snake: Ancient Patterns in Contem- Promotional blurbs are by Adrienne Rich and Isaac
porary Women’s Lives - A Snake Power Reader ($14 Bashevis Singer. Another ritual book with an interest-
Volume 15 Number 6 115 March/April 1993
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Springer Publishing Company of breast cancer than people die of AIDS, this book is
NEW DIRECTIONS IN FEMINIST PSYCHOLOGY long overdue. Might shelve well with Cancer in Two
J. C. Chrisler, PhD, and D. Howard, PhD Voices or Cancer as a Woman's Issue as well as with the
Exceptional, cutting-edge perspective of gender as it recovery/affirmation books. Walking on Alligators:
actually affects the daily lives of men and women. A Book of Meditations for Women by Susan
Springer Series: Focus on Women, Vol. 13
1992 272pp 0-8261-7540-6 hc $34.95 (outside US $38.80) Shaughnessy ($10 pb, 0-06-250758-3) looks like a fun
WOMEN, CHILDREN, AND HIV / AIDS sť and useful book. Tagged as a “daily motivator” for
F. L. Cohen, PhD, FAAN, and J. D. Durham, RN, PhD women who write, the book contains 200 short and
Comprehensive resource detailing the effects of HIV/AIDS quirky essays. Sounds like a great gift for a writer or
as they affect women, children, and society. wannabe. Melody Beatties Codependent No More:
1993 328pp 0-8261-7880-4 hc $37.95 (outside US $41.80) How to Stop Controlling Others and Start Caring for
EMPOWERING AND HEALING THE BATTERED Yourself has a new preface, a new cover and a new
WOMAN: A Model for Assessment and Intervention price ($10 pb, 0-06-255446-8).
M. A. Dutton, PhD — Audrey J. May/Meristem
“...integrates psychological theory with detailed infor-
mation on the real-life dimensions of abuse and threat in HOUGHTON MIFFLIN
interpersonal relationships. ”—Angela Browne, PhD
1992 224pp 0-8261-7130-3 hc $28.95 (outside US $32.80) Dakota by poet Kathleen Norris takes the reader
EMPLOYED MOTHERS AND to the geographical heart of the country, America’s
THE FAMILY CONTEXT wv so-called empty quarter, a land devoid of human pres-
J. Frankel, PhD ence but rich in natural life. For almost twenty years
Springer Series: Focus on Women, Vol. 14 Kathleen Norris has lived in the isolated town built by
1993 304pp 0-8261-7950-9 $38.95 (prepub) her grandparents on the border between North and
536 Broadway, New York, NY 10012 • (212) 431-4370 South Dakota. From a town “so small that the poets
and ministers have to hang out together,” Norris
ing combo of reviewers (Carolyn Heilbrun and Har- weaves together the lives of farmers, townsfolk, Na-
vey Cox) is Tom Driver’s The Magic of Ritual ($12 pb, tive Americans and a community of Benedictine
0-06-061897-3). monks. ($19.95 cl, 0395633206)
Other spiritually-oriented books include Sophia: A novel about the contemporary South, In Trou-
Goddess of Wisdom by Caitlin Matthews ($15 pb, bled Waters by Beverly Coyle, explores race, family
0-06-8-5538-275-X), and The Way of the Orisha: Em- and community and tackles the latent racism that lies
powering Your Life Through the Ancient African beneath the veneer of polite society. When 92-year-old
Religion of Ifa by Philip John Neimark ($12 pb, 0-06- Tom Glover hires two black boys to take his son-in-
250557-2). Bishop John Shelby Spong (author of Born law, who suffers from Alzheimer’s, to the local fishing
of a Woman et al.) also had a March release that may be hole each day, he unleashes the festering racism of his
of interest to stores that do a lot of theology. Harper SF small Florida community. Tom is forced to confront his
has other Jesus-related releases this spring, but I've own history and the changing nature of racial conflict
included the Spong book because of his history as a in the South. ($19.95 cl, 0395574374)
pro-feminist and gay-friendly theologian who sells
fairly well among our mainstream-but-questioning-
t bh re e- wc h u Lr oc rh d : c Au s t Bo im she or ps. ’ s S Sp eo an rg c’ hs n foew r tb ho eo k A uis t h eT nh te i c H Je- esus l
($12 pb, 0-06-067520-9).
In recovery, there are a few offerings of note: Sacred Country by Rose Tremain is a new novel
Affirmations, Meditations, and Encouragements for that starts on a snowy day in rural England in 1952 at
Women Living with Breast Cancer by Linda Dack- the Ward family gathering to mourn the death of King
man ($11 pb, 0-06-250209-3) is available now. Given George VI. On this day, at the age of six, Mary Ward
the fact that one in nine of us will develop breast realizes that she is really a boy and her destiny in life
cancer in our lifetimes and more women die each year is to be a man. For the next thirty years the reader
116
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Ili l l. l: s s AII Sp
|
watches with amusement and sadness as Mary, who W. W. NORTON
becomes Martin, pursues her/his identity. This is also Portrait Of The Artist's Wife by Barbara Ander-
the story of Mary/Martin’s mother who periodically son is an intelligent and unsentimental look at the
checks into the local asylum, her brother with his own complex marriage between Sarah Tandy, a painter,
particular vision and the neighborhood kid who is and Jack Macalister, a struggling and eventually
enchanted with the music of Jimmie Rodgers. ($21 cl, highly acclaimed writer. This novel has been called a
0689121709, April) novelistic “A Room of One's Own.” Sarah struggles to
A new recovery book for men looks at the factors nurture her talent amid the obstacles created by a
that make men vulnerable to addiction. Hungry stormy marriage, the pressures of bringing up two
Hearts, by Joseph Nowinski, reveals that all addiction children and the social demands and expectations put
is the result of emotional desperation. Nowinski ex- on all women. ($21.95 cl, 0393034895, April)
amines the psychological processes of addiction, why
men in particular are so vulnerable and what they can
do to overcome addiction and the addictive tenden- Zil
cies within themselves. ($22.95, 0029232252, May)
Healing The Hurt Places by Barbara Bean and Collected Poems 1930-1993 by May Sarton is a
Shari Bennett is a recovery guide for teens who have comprehensive collection that celebrates six decades
been sexually abused. All adolescents experience tre- of her bold imagination and 13 books of poetry. This
mendous change and concerns about sexuality, inde- collection is arranged chronologically and shows
pendence and self-image, but for teens that are victims Sarton’s development as a poet as well as her ease in
of sexual abuse these problems are exacerbated. They both traditional forms and free verse. ($27.50 c|,
often have trouble distinguishing between a typical 0393034933, May)
concern and one that results from sexual abuse and A rich portrait of five women in a fantastical
the ensuing shame. The author of this book offers Southwestern family, So Far From God by Ana
concrete advice for reporting an incident and seeking Castillo is a new novel by the author of The
counseling, and validates the conflicting emotions Mixquiahuala Letters. The small town of Tome in cen-
teens feel. ($9.95 pb, 0029020158, April) tral New Mexico is a place crowded with life: the past
E. Annie Proulx’s debut novel, Postcard, spins the and the present, the real with the supernatural, the
t wa hle e n o f h eL o cy oa ml m B il to so d t, h ew h mo o sa tb a n ted ro rn is b l eh is o f V ce rr im mo en st . Tf har ism is N tha et i v me e nA m we ir ti hca n t h w e i t wh o mth ene . H Ci asp sta in lli oc ww eit ah ve st h te h eA n stg ol ro, y
the beginning of an American odyssey that stretches of Sofia and her daughters Fe, Esperanza, Caridad
from New England to the coast of California. Loyal and la Loca with the hands of a magician and the
mines gold, prospects for uranium, grows beans, spirit of an unrepentant feminist. ($19.95 cl,
ranches, traps and hunts for fossils in this wonderful 0393034909, May)
tale rich in historical detail of hard scrabble lives. ($10 The Balkan Express by Croatian journalist and
pb, 0020811853, April) novelist Slavenka Drakulic looks at the violent conflict
Summer Rain by Marguerite Duras is an unsen- in Yugoslavia. Drakulic describes how ordinary peo-
timental, profoundly evocative tale of love, loss and ple respond to that gruesome situation in this collec-
the essence of human identity. It centers around a tion of essays. She wonders if she and people like her
large and rootless immigrant family bound together are responsible for allowing this war to start and
by powerful intimacy in the no-man’s land of subur- shows how it has destroyed everyday life, disrupted
ban Paris. ($9 pb, 0020730403, May) relationships and turned close friends into bitter ene-
Volume 15 Number 6 117 March/April 1993
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
mies. Her book is an important work about this trag- PENGUIN BOOKS/ PLUME (paperbacks)
edy. ($19.95 cl, 0393034968, May) Blanche Wiesen Cook’s biography of Eleanor
Barbara Katz Rothman looks at the effects of am- Roosevelt will be published in paperback in March,
niocentesis on the experience of motherhood in her women’s history month. Eleanor Roosevelt, Volume
new book The Tentative Pregnancy. She shows how One, 1884-1932 shows Roosevelt as a woman of power
this simple procedure has radically altered the way we and influence who struggled for social justice but also
think about childbirth and parenthood and has forced for her own self-realization. Born into a Southern aris-
us to confront agonizing dilemmas: What do you do tocratic family that was ravaged by alcoholism, she
if there is a problem with the fetus? What kind of overcame the prejudices of her roots and fought
support is available to raise a handicapped child? against racism and injustice and for the rights of
How do you decide to end a wanted pregnancy? She women. In her private life she formed lasting intimate
draws on the experience of over 120 women in this friendships with both men and women. ($15 pb,
passionate, sympathetic and informative book for 0140094601)
anyone thinking of having a child. ($9.95 pb, Ordinary Women, Extraordinary Lives by Mar-
039 3309 9 83, 1 pr il) cia Chellis introduces a process of personal transfor-
mation that can change a woman's life. Looking at the
lives of eight women that have made profound
changes, Chellis shows how self-empowerment is a
five-stage process involving accepting, networking,
Not The End Of The World by Rebecca Stowe is choosing, shifting and mentoring. From the story of
a tour de force about the tomboy daughter of the Marie who beat alcoholism and founded a halfway
owner ofa successful candy factory. After an explosive house to Joni who recovered from a crippling accident
incident at school, Maggie, the spirited, funny and to set world triathalon records, these extraordinary
troubled adolescent daughter is just trying to make it women transcended their dire circumstances to be-
through a long summer at home while harboring an come what they wanted to be. ($10 pb, 0140147411,
old family secret. ($8.95 pb, 039331006X, May) April)
Another novel with an adolescent heroine, Sweet Rebecca Goldstein's new novel, The Dark Sister,
Days Of Discipline by Fleur Jaeggy, marks this Italian tells the story of Hedda, a writer of feminist novels,
author's American debut. Set in postwar Switzerland, and her sister Stella, who has married and divorced
this is the story of fourteen-year-old Eve who charts several times. Between these sisters there is much
her constricted boarding-school friendship with the mutual anger and disdain but also shared childhood
apparently perfect new girl, Frederique. Eve's obses- traumas and secrets. As Hedda writes her novel of two
sion with death and madness grow in the splendid Victorian sisters, the lives of her characters overlap the
isolation of a small Swiss garden until it obscures lives of her and her sister. ($11 pb, 0140172475) Pen-
every perspective. ($8.95 pb, 0811212351, May, New guin will also re-issue Goldstein's first novel The
Directions) Mind-Body Problem ($11 pb, 0140172459)
Norton will be doing new editions of three May
Sarton titles in April. You may want to note these as
they may be unavailable until the new editions are Zil:
out: Mrs. Stevens Hears The Mermaids Singing
($8.95 pb, 0393309290), The Education Of Harriet Danger And Beauty by Jessica Hagedorn (the
Hatfield ($8.95 pb, 0393310299) and At Seventy ($9.95 author of Dogeaters) is a collection of poetry and prose.
pb, 0393310302). Hagedorn takes her life from her childhood in the
back e dA itls io o n sN o or ft o n A d w rii el nl n r ee i Rss iu ce h ' st w Do r e an mew O t fr a Ade Cp oa mpe -r- P wh oi rl li dp sp i n oe fs Nto e w h e Yr o r c ko n af nr do n t Sa at ni o n F r aw ni ct ih s c ot h ae n ds t r ta rn ag ne s f on re mw s
mon Language ($8.95 pb, 0393310337,April) and A it into stories, poems and autobiographical pieces that
Wild Patience Has Taken Me This Far ($8.95 pb, show the heartbeat and heartbreaks of the immigrant
039331037X, July). experience. ($13 pb, 0140173404)
118
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Now in paperback—Diana Souhami’s
acclaimed biography of one of the century’s
_ most remarkable couples—
Gertrude and Alice
“An antidote for all “Gertrude and Alice have
those laundry lists become a legend. Their lives and
thney ocallw bioagradphiaesys.: and devoted relation sfrhiendis, p th eir saalosn, their long
Wonderfully ‘husband and wife.’ ...
diverting.” [Souhami] has captured them
—Mirabella to perfection.”
èa. — Perdita Schaffner,
“Like a good novelist, daughter of H.D., in
Diana Souhami makes New Directions for Women
the characters in her
book, major and minor,
come alive. Hers is an
exemplary biography in its
scrupulous respect and
affection for her subjects.”
—Cyra McFadden,
San Francisco Examiner
“Abso èalutely fascinating ..…. 3 :
fresh and delightful. . ..… They | ; - T
were characters, these two, and ATN
the wonderful photographs “Fresh, often witty, SCC
capture thaat br illièantaly.” sometimes irreverent.” t"!
—Cosmopolitan —San Francisco Chronicle
Photo courtesy of Collection of American Literature, The Beinecke Rare Book and Manuscript Library, Yale University.
A Pandora Book
uvsAentu lalydr ecio msypnactth e sinist. r o..d.Auc trio ns h toow s a bslpea menmgeang:e m ! e nPta p ewribtahc k h e©r $d1a4 .0.0
two remarkable women.” subjects.”—7he New York aa HarperSanFrancısco
=T be Atlantic Monthly l'imes Book Review A Division of HarperColl Ailnso s aPvauilabblel i fsrohme HrasrperCollinsCanada Ltd.
Volume 15 Number 6 119 March/April 1993
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
A sophisticated novel of modern romance, The The Four Of Us by Elizabeth Swados is the mem-
Republic Of Love by Carol Shields, is a story of love oir of her seemingly blessed family. Her father was a
at first sight. Fay, a folklorist with a passion for mer- successful lawyer and her mother was gifted and at-
maids wonders if she is using the past to escape the tractive but her older bother was eventually diagnosed
present, forsaking spontaneity for security. Tom is a as a schizophrenic and her mother suffered from anxi-
late-night disc jockey, who has married and divorced ety and depression. Swados creates a complex and
three times by the age of 40. When Fay and Tom meet resonant picture of the four sides of a family rectangle
they fall in love with exuberance. But complications and of her own efforts not to succumb to the tragedy. A
beset them in this funny, touching, and serious novel. spellbinding narrative. ($10 pb, 0452269601, April)
($10 pb, 0140149902, April)
RANDOM HOUSE
New York Times’ columnist Anna Quindlen
Zil: ruminates about the public and private issues of our
time in her syndicated column. Thinking Out Loud
The best novel I read last year, Bastard Out Of collects columns that reveal what is on her mind and
Carolina by Dorothy Allison, is a tender but disturb- in her heart as she illuminates the clash between the
ing story of the harsh realities of poor white “trash” in private the public. She addresses such issues as War,
South Carolina. This is the story of Ruth Anne Boat- political campaigns, the right to die, abortion, sexual
wright and her family of hard-drinking men and in- harassment, and rape. She has a sharp eye, a sense
domitable women who marry young and age quickly. of humor and compassion. ($22 cl, 0679407111,
Ruth Anne, called Bone by her family, loves her family April)
with a passion, but would do anything to escape from Left To Themselves by Mary Grimm is a novel
her life and her mean stepfather Daddy Glen, who pits about repression, loss and love in ordinary lives:
her mother’s love for Bone against her love for him. Harry has been in and out of jobs, bars, and women’s
Please read this book and sell it. Dorothy Allison is the beds; his cousin married Cynthia who spends her
author of the short story collection Trash published by days waiting for him; and Lucette, a distant, passion-
Firebrand Books and the winner of two Lambda Liter- ate, passive woman who becomes a catalyst for
ary Awards. ($10 pb, 0452269571) change in their lives. The aimlessness and carelessness
Jazz by Toni Morrison is a novel about obsession with which these characters live their lives stem from
and music and the impact of slavery on the Harlem complexities they are determined to ignore and re-
jazz age. This is the story of Joe Trace, a door-to-door press. ($21 cl, 0679401016, April)
salesman in his 50s, his mentally unstable wife, Violet
and his 18-year old lover, Dorcas. Set in Harlem in the
1920s, it is a passionate love story that captures the Zil:
rhythms of the city and the bittersweet mood of Black
life in America. ($10 pb, 0452269652, April) Bloodlines: Odyssey Of A Native Daughter is a
A collection of essays that explores the issues of collection of essays on writing, on reservation life, and
today’s lesbian community, Sisters, Sexperts, Queers on being a woman by Janet Campbell Hale, the author
edited by Arlene Stein looks at the tremendous diversity of The Jailing of Cecelia Capture. This rich tapestry of
of lesbian culture. The essays in this collection deal with history and storytelling interweaves Hale’s own expe-
a wide variety of subjects—including but not limited to riences with portraits of relatives both living and
lesbian mothers worrying about the local school system, dead. Hale writes about her determination to write as
lesbian erotica, and lesbians and gay mcn banding to- a four-ycar-old, even before she knew the alphabet.
gether to fight AIDS. Dorothy Allison’s essays on class Her portrait of her half-brother’s mother’s life in pov-
difference in the lesbian community and editor Arlene erty parallels her own experiences as a single mother
Stein's look at lesbian pop music stars are included on welfare. She also remembers her proud grand-
along with essays by Alisa Solomon, Jackie Goldsby and mother who was a participant in the tragic Great
Lourdes Arguelles. ($10 pb, 0452268877, April) Flight of 1877. ($18 cl, 0679415270, April)
120
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
En l l. $ B XI E =N A j Ý+ gl „Jli ;|
RANDOMN\ Villard claims of the likes of Shirley MacLaine or M. Scott
My Mother Worked And I Turned Out Okay by Peck, Kaminer finds a tendency toward authoritarian-
Katherine Goldman is a positive, reinforcing book for ism and religiosity in many of these self-help group.
working mothers. Goldman, the daughter of a work- ($10 pb, 0679745858, April) — Sandi Torkildson
ing mother, interviewed adult children of working
women to support her case of the twelve principles of RANDOM HOUSE/Crown
working motherhood. This upbeat, first-person remi- Ladies of the Court: Grace and Disgrace on the
niscence covers a wide range of subjects. Her mother, Women’s Tennis Circuit, Michael Mcwshaw, $22 cl,
Lois Wyse, supplied the Afterword. ($16 cl, 0517587580. Here is one man’s view of women’s ten-
nis, so who knows? But there are those women (some
of our customers!) who love tennis and want to know
everything possible about the fascinating women who
win on the court.
B We have both an AIDS section and a small section
RANDOM Vintage of fiction and poetry by men at our store and I think
Passions Of The Mind is a collection of criticism this book fits both categories. A Rock and A Hard
by A.S. Byatt, the author of Possession. She covers such Place: One Boy’s Triumphant Story, $22 cl,
topics as Victorian spirituality, the mythic strands in 051759501X, is the memoir of a 14-year-old boy who
the novels of Iris Murdoch, and the politics behind the survives abuse at home, leaves to find his way on the
popularity of Barbara Pym. She also looks at the writ- streets, finds a loving family, and then is diagnosed
ings of George Eliot, Sylvia Plath, and Toni Morrison. with AIDS.
($12 pb, 0679736786, April). Turtle Bay Books, (distrib- Another AIDS book — they have updated When
uted by Random House) will publish two of her no- Someone You Know Has AIDS: A Practical Guide,
vellas, Angels & Insects this Spring. The Conjugal $16 pb, 0517880393.
Angel is a philosophical ghost story that explores the I never know what to say until I have actually
contemporary preoccupation with God and life after looked at these satanic abuse books, but I do know
death and Morpho Eugenia is a Gothic fable about the that we are hearing from more and more survivors of
Earthly Paradise, Darwinian Theories and the paral- such abuse and also selling books to many therapists
lels between insect and human societies. ($21 c|, who are trying to become educated, so I try most of
0679405127, April) them. This one is Lessons in Evil, Lessons From the
Sleepwalker In A Fog is a collection of short Light: A True Story of Satanic Abuse and Spiritual
stories by Russian writer Tatyana Tolstaya. Set in con- Healing, Gail Carr Feldman, $21 cl, 0517588773.
temporary Russia these stories transform seemingly Written by the therapist of the survivor, this book
ordinary lives into something magical and strange. details the abuse and the healing, according to the
($10 pb, 067973063, April) 8
Wendy Kaminer looks at the recovery movement
and other self-help movements in I'm Dysfunctional,
You're Dysfunctional. This outspoken social criticism H
of a national movement that is also a multi-million
dollar industry may help us question how we are led RANDOM HOUSE/Knopf
astray with the best intentions. Whether she is infil- In a Country of Mothers, $22 cl, 0679415688, by
trating a codependency workshop or evaluating the A.M. Homes (Jack) sounds like a well-written psycho-
Volume 15 Number 6 121 March/April 1993
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
logical thriller that involves an intense relationship RANDOM HOUSE/Pantheon
between two women. Whether or not it has any femi- Operating Instructions: A Journal of My Son’s
nist content is another question. I did not read her First Year, Anne Lamott, $21 cl, 0679420916. What
earlier book, Safety of Objects, but did have some re- looks interesting about this memoir is that Lamott is a
quests for it when it was reviewed. single mother with a sense of humor and a best friend
who is diagnosed with terminal cancer during the
ıl same year that the two of them are going through the
experience of birth together. The catalogue says that,
“Her complex vision, inspired by joy, makes us laugh
Do you sell much Alice Adams? I don’t, but there out loud.”
seems to be a following for her in paper. Anyway, I In the Eye of the Sun, Ahdaf Soueif, $25 c|,
should mention that she has a new novel, Almost 0679409483. In our constant attempt to understand
Perfect, $23 c], 0679423982, that seems to be about love more of the world and the experiences of women all
and madness. over the world, I usually order novels that seem au-
For all the women who dream of flying (a planc}’), thentic. This one is described as “a brilliant novel of
Mariana Gosnell has written Zero Three Bravo: Solo cultural collision that reveals, with startling precision,
Across America in a Small Plane, $25 cl, 0679400257. the hidden life of contemporary Arab women.” It is
As she flies from one small airport to another, Mariana written about (and by) an Egyptian woman living in
tells not only her own experiences, but the tales of the London.
other pilots of small planes whom she meets along the
way. — Linda Bryant/Charis RANDOM HOUSE/Shambala
Lifting the Veil: The Feminine Face of Science,
RANDOMN\Knopf Linda Jean Shepherd, $14 pb, 0877736561. This book
Susan Fromberg Schaeffer’s new novel, First does not seem to be about women in science, but about
Nights, involves us with two remarkable women: the feminine principle as it emerges in the new phys-
Anna Asta, a legendary Swedish actress and Ivy ics, the new biology, etc.
Cook, her maid. Anna, a child of poverty and a star Psychotherapy, Marie-Louise Von Franz, $16 pb,
of Hollywood’s glory days, is now a recluse living in 0877738793. Essays for your Jungians.
New York. Ivy is a child of the warm and vibrant
world of Green Island in the West Indies, whose adult RANDOM HOUSE/Turtle Bay
life merges with her memories of the tales of love and Angels and Insects, A.S. Byatt, $21 c|,
betrayal she heard as a child. This 600+ page novel is 0679405127. Two novellas set in the mid-nineteenth
packed with fabulous characters such as Miss Blue, century questioning whether in fact nature (human or
the “story tailor,", so called because she can change otherwise) can be tamed.
the ending of your story to suit. ($25 cl, 0394588207, Girl, Interrupted, Susanna Kaysen, $19 cl,
April) 0679423664. The memoir of an 18-year-old girl who
Theory Of Waris a novel by Joan Brady narrated was hospitalized in a psychiatric hospital (after a 20
by the granddaughter of a white man sold into slavery minute session with a doctor) for two years.
just after the Civil War. This was common practice of — Linda Bryant/Charis
poor, destitute families. This “boughten boy” of four
was sold for fifteen dollars and thus began his six
decades of humiliation and determination to revenge Zili
himself on his tormentors. He escapes with the rail-
road and we follow his career as a brakeman, his days ROUTLEDGE CHAPMAN HALL
as a fundamentalist preacher, his loss of faith, his Earth Follies: Coming to Terms with the Global
marriage and the rage that is always there, just under Environmental Crisis, Joni Seager, $27.50 cl, 0-415-
the surface and often breaking through. ($21, 90720-9, April. Seager, a geography and women’s
0679419667, April) — Sandi Torkildson studies teacher, sees our current environmental prob-
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
lems as a crisis of culture. Here she enters the lively
debate about ecofeminism and the historical relation-
ship between women and nature. The book also takes DORIS GRUMBACH
a look at the masculinist presumptions which shape
many organizations in the movement and proposes
neaw g ande pnrodductiave. priorities for the environmental
Boots of Leather, Slippers of Gold: The History CHAMBER
nof e d ya L anes db i a Mn a d C elo im nem u Dn . i t Dy a, v isE ,l i z $a 2b 9e .t 9h 5 L ca l,p o 0v -s 4k 1y 5 - 9K 0e 2n 9- 3-2. MUSIC
This is the long awaited herstory of the lesbian com- “I believe Chamber Music will be
munity in Buffalo, NY from the mid-1930’s to the carly a classic. It deserves to be.”
1960's. Excerpts from the study and articles about it —Alice Walker
have been floating around for years, so many women
will be eagerly awaiting this title. “A haunting story, all the more
powerful because of the elegant
economy of the writing.”
Zil: —Barbara Pym
Perversions: Deviant Readings, Mandy Merck,
$13.95 pb, 0-415-90792-6; $49.95 cl, -90791-8, April. THE MISSING
This series of provocative essays on culture, art, and PERSON
film explores the paradoxes of sexual representation.
Merck looks at Andrea Dworkin’s Intercourse, lesbian “A tellingly achieved fusion of
“self-portraits,” Amazons and Radclyffe Hall, as well thought and action and the
as the feminist ethics of lesbian s/m. most fully realized evocation of
Hen rT yhe ALe bsb ei la on v ean , d MGa iy c h S et lu ed i e As iR ne aa d e Br, a re ad lit ee d a b ny d David H lool nly gw o od t i mthe em .”es — in A la a nlo n g C, heuse,
Halperin ($24.95 pb, 0-415-90519-2; $59.50 cl, -90518- | |T H PE E RM SIS OS NING Los Angeles Herald Examiner
4) claims to be the biggest and most comprehensive “A lovely book.”
multi-disciplinary anthology .of critical work in les- —Michelle Souda, N. Y. Newsday
bian/gay studies. The 42 groundbreaking essays are
followed by an extensive bibliographical essay which COMING INTO
will provide readers with an invaluable guide to fur- THE END ZONE
ther readings. Essayists include, among others: Mari-
lyn Frye, Gloria Hull, Audre Lorde, Adrianne Rich, A MEMOIR
Barbara Smith, and Monique Wittig. “Triumphant, deeply felt...a rare
Gender Politics and Post-Communism: Reflec- celebration of life, alive with keen
tions from Eastern Europe and the Former Soviet observations of people, places
Union, Nanette Funk and Magda Museller, eds, $17.95 and events. —Publishers Weekly
pb, 0-415-90478-1; $55 cl, -90477-3, April. A study of “A deeply satisfying book.”
gender politics during the turbulent transition and —Noel Perrin,
crises of post-communism, this book aims to provoke New York Times Book Review
discourse on many issues facing women in the East.
Engenderings: Constructions of Knowledge, Now at bookstores
Authority and Privilege, Naomi Scheman, $15.95 pb, Bj NORTON
0-415-90740-3; $49.95 cl, -90739-X, June. Scheman, a 500 Fifth Avenue, New York, NY 10110
professor of philosophy and women’s studies, looks
123 March/April 1993
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
at philosophy as emerging not from the universal Etter-Lewis presents the lives of early twentieth cen-
human condition but from conditions of privilege. tury African-American women in their own words.
Acknowledging the challenges posed by those who This looks like a real treasure for those interested in
have been marginalized by the academy, the author oral histories, as it presents not only each woman's
examines the difficulties of theorizing responsibility own words but also a critical examination of the inter-
from a privileged perspective. viewer/interviewee relationship and other questions
associated with the process of putting together oral
histories.
Zil Spirit, Space and Survival: African American
Women in (White) Academe ($15.95 pb, 0-415-
Feminist Theory and the Classics ($16.95 pb, 90637-7; $49.95 cl, -90636-9, May) is edited by Joy
0-415-90646-6; $49.95 cl, -90645-8, June) edited by James and Ruth Farmer and has a preface by Angela
Nancy Sorkin Rabinowitz and Amy Richlin, chal- Davis. Organized in three sections, the collected es-
lenges the traditional picture of the ancient world put says cover spiritual and intellectual sources of inspi-
forth by conservatives and scholars such as Camille ration, critiques of certain academic traditions, and
Paglia who assert that feminist theories have no rele- the future needs of African-American women in ac-
vance to ancient societies. The book demonstrates that ademia.
the ancient world was always multi-cultural and var- The Compulsion to Create: A Psychoanalytic
ied; that women played an important role in classical Study of Women Artists, Susan Kavaler-Adler, $17.95
societies; that ancient people expressed homoerotic as pb, 0-415-90711-X; $55 cl, - 90710-1, June. This is an
well as heterosexual desire; and that women, people exploration of the psychological nature of creativity
of color, and gays today have important things to say with an evocative portrayal of its dark side. The book
about ancient cultures. maintains a balance in which the reparative use of the
My Soul is My Own: Oral Narratives of African creative process can be appreciated, while also reveal-
American Women in the Professions ($14.95 pb, 0- ing the unconscious forces of opposition that sabotage
415-90560-5; $49.95 cl, -90559-1, May) by Gwendolyn such healthy strivings. In addition to looking at writ-
; _ Check all the boxes you can and mail to FBN, I am/We are: [1 Owned and operated by :
ı PO Box 882554, San Francisco, CA 94188 yo Reader/Bibliophile women i
! ; [H N Woammen'se St u[dDies TeLacihber r [Ha r Cioa-onwn ed a anndd r u n m by e wnom en' !
: : B u sinAess d Ndamer De sWsrit er [[1J Ow n edB aond o opkerasteed l blye mren | !
' [J Publisher Bookstores — We also stock: !
1:: C oitPOy/ hS t[aoJten/ ZeFip e m[HC i nPreirasioftd it cansl ow in Lo-efsmbiicanta i nobno o k s'! :
!! [ J[ iJ O t hG ere nH e rGaaylJ minent'se r teitsltes !!
' [!J On e FYeare - m $65. Cihecnk eniclsosedt. B oo kstDores, Pu blCisherhs andi l[H d Lefrtist/epolintical 1 :
: [] One Year- $70. Bill us. Periodicals —/s your focus primarily: [7] (New age/metaphysical 1
: [D] +599 for Canadian postage. [J Lesbian [J other '
:: [ DD + G$1a9y f o r[ J ot h eBr a cinkte r niastsiouneals p oastvaagei.l a [bU l eL e sb—ian $& 6 G ay; '
D1 year - $33. [N Alternative/political each or $30/year. Check
[J Sample copy - $6. [J General independent enclosed.
March/April 1993
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
A s e t
iasa
il. " Eln.. la ŠI. B
ers such as the Bronte sisters, Emily Dickinson, and the process by which women scholars became femi-
Sylvia Plath, the author presents a case study of a nist scholars. $15.95 pb, 0-415-08686-8; $49.95 cl,
living female artist and suggests how her theory plays -08685-X.
itself out in this artist's work and life. If you have a section on “men and feminism” this
Transformations: Recollective Imagination and might sel], although the cover is not highly attractive
Sexual Difference ($15.95 pb, 0-415-90747-0; $49.95 cl, and the book seems a bit academic. David Porter’s
-90746-2, April) by Druscilla Cornell argues for a new Between Men and Feminism explores how two de-
understanding of social change that focuses on the tie cades of feminism have affected the way men define
between political and individual transformation. She their own masculinities and how they have responded
claims that we cannot even begin to understand rac- in their social, sexual, and political lives to the chal-
ism and the connection between race and gender un- lenges posed by the evolving feminist critiques of
less we begin to grapple with the role unconscious patriarchy and maleness itself. $15.95 pb, 0-415-06988-
motivation plays in public life. 2; $52.50 cl, -06987 -4.
The History of Doing: The Women’s Movement
in India ($19.95 pb, 0-86091-665-0; $64.95 cl, -455-0,
Verso) by Radha Kumar presents a herstory of the
women’s movement in India which covers the period
from the nineteenth century to the present day. For those bookstores with a notable Italian-Amer-
Queer Looks: Perspectives on Lesbian and Gay ican audience, The Lonely Mirror: Italian Perspec-
Film and Video, edited by Martha Gever, Prathiba tives on Feminist Theory, cditcd by Sandra Kemp
Parmar, and John Greyson looks at the queer place and Paola Bono will be of interest. This collection of
lesbian and gay mcdia artists find themselves in right essays sets out to contextualize Italian feminist theory
now. Caught in the struggle between being the hot within the international debate. $16.95 pb, 0-415-
new commodity on one hand and backlash on the 03778-6; $39.95 cl, 03777-8, April.
other, queer video artists, filmmakers and critics have Don’t forget the Feminist Review, the UK’s lead-
much to say. $17.95 pb, 0-415-90742-X; $49.95 c|, ing socialist feminist journal. It is available in the US
-90741-1, May. through RCH. This Spring’s offerings: Issue #41:
Cinema and Spectatorship by Judith Maync fo- Women and Health ($12.95 pb, 0-415-08025-8, March);
cuses on the history and role of the spectator in con- Issue #42: Feminist Fictions ($12.95 pb, -08026-6, May);
temporary film studies. She evaluates 1970s film Issue #43: Issues for Feminism ($12.95 pb, -09606- 5,
theory from a feminist analysis of female spectator- July.)
ship and looks at how the film-spectator relationship Contemporary Feminist Theatres: To Each Her
is shaped by particular cultural factors. $16.95 pb, Own, $16.95 pb, 0-415-07306-5; $49.95 cl, -07305-7,
0-415-03416-7; $49.95 cl, -03415-9, May. April. Author Lizbeth Goodman offers part social his-
tory of feminism and part exploration of the links
between academic and practical approaches to thea-
Zil: tre. She looks closely at the representation of women,
feminists, lesbians, and Black women engaged in the
Changing Subjects: The Making of Feminist act of representing “self” in both theatre and everyday
Literary Criticism, edited by Gayle Greene and life.
Coppelia Kahn, is a collection of autobiographical Women in Foreign Policy: The Insiders by
essays by eminent feminist literary critics exploring Nancy McGlen and Meredith Reid Sarkees provides
Volume 15 Number 6 125 March/April 1993
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
raphies, discographies, sample math and writing ex-
ercises round out the volume. $16.95 pb, 0-415-90700-
4; $55 cl, -90699-7.
Again, for the teachers: I Answer With My Life:
Life Histories of Women Teachers Working for So-
cial Change. This collection of oral histories by Kath-
leen Casey focuses on the narratives of three sets of
teachers: Catholic nuns, Jewish women and Black
women, all of whom combine their classroom work
with personal work for social change. $15.95 pb, 0-415-
90403-X; $49.95 cl, -90402-1.
Gendered Fields: Women, Men, and Ethnogra-
phy edited by Diane Bell, Pat Caplan, and Wazir
Jahan Karim examines and explores the progress of
feminist anthropology. The contributors show how
gender issues affect international and group dynam-
ics in`the field. $16.95 pb,«0-415-06252-7; $59.95 c|,
-06251-9.
Gendered Anthropology edited by Teresa del
Valle looks at the progress made in the last three
decades in the study of gender as an analytical cate-
gory within the field of anthropology. Why am I not
surprised to learn that anthropologists have had to
rethink major theories as a result of factoring in this
“category” called gender? $17.95 pb, 0-415-06127-X;
$59.95 c], -06126-1, May.
Zil
A new series...International Studies of Women
and Place describes the diversity and complexity of
of this story collection. women’s experiences around the world. The titles in
insight into the challenges faced by the women who the series will work across different geographies to
have shaped US foreign policy. Highlighted by inter- explore the processes behind the construction of gen-
views with 10 leading women in the field, the book is der and the life worlds of women. Series editors are
a look at the making of foreign policy during the Janet Momson (Women and Development in the Third
Reagan years. $15.95 pb, 0-415-90512-5; $49.95 cl, World) and Janice Monk. The first three titles are: Viva:
-90511-7. Women and Popular Protest in Latin America by
If you number teachers/teachers-to-be among Sarah Radcliffe and Sallie Westwood ($16.95 pb, 0-415-
your customers, you may want to stock Freedom’s 07313-8; $55 cl, -07312-X), Different Places, Different
Plow: Teaching in the Multicultural Classroom, ed- Voices: Gender and Development in Africa, Asia
ited by Theresa Perry and James Fraser. It sounds as if and Latin America edited by Janet Momson and Viv-
this is to be the first in a series of volumes. This volume ian Kinnaird ($16.95 pb, 0-415-07563-7; $55 cl, -07358-
contains a discussion by the editors which contextual- 6), and Full Circles: Geographies of Women Over the
izes the current multicultural debate and reflective Life Course edited by Janice Monk and Cindi Katz
essays and accounts of efforts to implement anti-racist ($16.95 pb, 0-415-07562-9; $55 cl, -07552-1.)
curricula and development of new curricula. Bibliog- — ME Kavanuagh/My Sister's Words O
March/April 1993 126
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Canadian Books, continued from page 60. able and homoey. $24.95 cl, 1-55054-069-6. Douglas &
those who stayed behind. Yvonne Vera was born in McIntyre, 1615 Venables Street, Vancouver, BC V5L
Bulawayo, Zimbabwe and now lives in Toronto. 2H1. 604-254-7191.
$11.95 pb, 0-920661-24-6.
I come to the end of the column once more with
two Canadian women mystery writers who have new
books out. The Wandering Soul Murders is Gail
Bowen's third Joanne Kilbourn mystery (the first two
are Deadly Appearances and Murder at the Mendel). And finally, Sechelt, a small town on the Sunshine
Kilbourn’s search for a murderer takes her from the Coast in British Columbia, is again the scene for the
temporary homes of street kids to the upper class new L.R. Wright, Fall from Grace. This one features a
dwellings of highly placed political advisors, power- wonderful old woman with innumerable cats, as well
ful businesspeople and television officials. As with the as the regular inhabitants of the town. $5.99 pb, 0-
first two mysteries, Bowen creates the tension of the 7704-2522-4. Seal Books (McClelland Bantam, Inc.)
murder mystery in an environment that is comfort- 105 Bond Street, Toronto, ONT M5B 1Y3. O
127 March/April 1993
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
BOOKSTORES FOR SALE BOOKS WANTED
I'Androgyne, Montreal's lesbian/gay/feminist Opening Books is looking for How to Stay Out of the
bookstore still for sale. Established 20 years. ‘92 sales Gynecologisťs Office by the Federation of Women’s
over $300,000. Spectacular growth, great location. Health Centers. Opening Books, 403 Pratt Ave. NE,
Don't believe what you read: asking price very rea- Huntsville AL 35801; 205-536-5880.
sonable. Lawrence Boyle, 3636 St. Laurent, Montreal
Quebec Canada H2X 2V4; 514-842-4765. BOOK SEARCH SERVICES
POSITIONS WANTED The Women’s Room. We carry a good selection of used
and out-of-print books. Catalogues issued regularly,
Experienced editor offers editing, copy editing, proof- plus free search service. Prompt attention to all inquir-
reading and writing services. Reasonable rates. Refer- ies. Write 832 Fort St., Victoria Canada V8W 1H8. Fax:
ences available. Contact Ann at FBN, 415-626-1556. 604-361-1812; Phone: 604-361-3288. Heather Graham,
bookseller.
POSITIONS AVAILABLE
CLASSIFIED ADS
Naiad Press has an immediate opening for a clerical
position: order taker and filler with light computer
work, including mailing lists. Cheerful, upbeat les-
bian personality. Good on phones, hardworking.
Long-term. Excellent (employer paid) benefits, in-
cluding life, health, & dental insurance, 4 wecks paid
holiday, good starting wage and regular & frequent
raises. Contact Barbara Grier at 904-539-5965 (10-3 EST).
Issue Articles Due Ads Due Last Minute News
ABA Issue March 24 Apr. 1 Apr. 15
Sidelines /Calendar May 5 June 7 June 21
Summer Announcements June 25 June 28 July 15
Fall Announcements Aug. 13 Aug. 12 Sept. 2
University Press Oct. 5 Oct5 Oct. 21
March/April 1993 128 Volume 15 Number 6
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)fff:ffff:ffff:ffff:ffff:ffff on Thu, 01 Jan 1976 12:34:56 UTC
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsLesbian Mothers Ends of Empire
ÅLSO OF INTEREST
Accounts of Gender Women and Ideology in Early
in American Culture Eighteenth-Century English Literature
ELLEN LEWIN LAURA BROWN
Winner of the 1992 Ruth Brown explores the representation of
Benedict Prize for Outstanding women in English literature from the
Anthropological Scholarship on Restoration to the fall of Walpole. In this
a Lesbian or Gay Topic. period the image of the female not only
“A groundbreaking book that gets played a leading role in literary culture
behind the current fascination with but also profoundly affected mercantile
the ‘lesbian baby boom.’ Lesbian capitalist ideology. $11.95 paper,
Mothers is a compelling account of $31.50 cloth. May
the contradictions faced by
women—both lesbian and
heterosexual—in the United States The Body
t So tad ta ey . ” U— nK iva et rh s i tW y e s Wto en s, t . Arizona Embarrassed
$13.95 paper, $34.95 cloth. May Dram and the Disciplines of Shame
in Early Modern England
GAIL KERN PASTER
In this challenging and innovative book,
Sunbelt Working Paster examines representations of the
Mothers body in Elizabethan-Jacobean drama in
Female Choices the light of humoral medical theory,
L PR O Ae Uc To RIn S IEc C i Il Ai Ln Ag ZM APF Va Hm EE LRi Ll Ey A, , and Factory S Mex Eua Rl EB Deh Ia Tvi Hor o Ff . F e Sm Male A P Lr Limates t h tr hia s ec t i o n hrg y is t t ooh rf ye t c h oo fen n v te hic s et i bi o l sn e u s b s j eob cce tit a 'sw l e bben oo dd yyt h e aa snd
A WN ITD H F PE EL TIP EE R G BO . N EZ VA ALE NS S, a cIn b ono u ch ete n r tf r ei amn tet a sr l ei g s o u n i a n n g pd r ia msn ed x at , e p sS —r mo tv a ho l elcative book e $x 1p 4e .9r 5ie n pc ae pd e r f , r o $m 42 . 9w 5 i t ch li on t. h . 1 2 M ab y&w illus.
t“ hA en inim tep rr se es cs ti iv oe n b bo eo tk w ee ex na m ci ln asi sn ,g ap nr co es sim tri ya n s w, e m so hn ark ee —ys t, o a sn hd o w a p e hs o, w whose Fetishism as
gender, and ethnicity among direct f see xm ua al le s c rh ea av tue r ee sv . o l Sv he ed dt eo s c b rie b eh s i g th hl ey Cultural Discourse
a sS tnu r n e b a sl se t el et sr n dW a it fo i fvr ek e r i en p ng e c r e sM sp o e oct fth ie v r ee xs p t ep h rr a io etv ni cd ees js o ue u sx r tu a n al se aa rn med s a t l e r se c p o aur ro s eid n u s sc tt ri tv ao te e d g s e it smr tsa o t n e isg nti re s a t t h eo e f that E AD NI DT E D W IB LY LI A E MM I L PY IE TA ZPTER
a d em cis oto nin ong mc t i cw eo t sm h trne an i tc a .b ”ge —rl oo Mun p .g si n P g aa t n r dt ic o is aocio- f tr hoe rp e ir r o g d o ou o wc dt ni v p e a r r e t pg n ra em or de s u,, c tef in vem ejo y a il ne s ts ee rxa e,l s s o ta sn s de i na r kc eh ep T e fs rh s oi as my s f aa b s c r vi in n ara g it s ei tn ytg o g oc e fo t l hl e dec r it s i c o l ie pn a l d i no in ef sg , s i s ax c st h e o we ln a er lls as
F U $1e nr 5in .v 9á e 5n r sd i pe t az y p . e K r 1e , 0l l y $ 3b, 9& .T w 9h 5 e i cl l lJ u oo s t.h hn .s Hopkins m $2i 6n .9d 5. . 8 J uc nol eor plates, 8 b&w illus. p r 22er e o xm ba &min wie n n e it l l uta h sr .et i s $pt 1s h 5 e . 9na 5n o md p e af n pi o el n rm , m o $a f 4k 2 e .fr 5es 0t, i s cht lo ois tm h..
July April
— T aaa ııı
Cornell University Press
Sage House, 512 East State Street, Ithaca NY 14850
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms(RLS Y75/
“Dazzling... The culmination of
Angela Carter's prolific and inventive
= career.’ Michiko Kakutani,
4 s| The New York Times
“An exuberant comic
£ fantasy... Ms. Carter's
// tvheer y in atmriucsaitneg a nndo v eolf treencords
AA b ga iew nd ly aac tt ii ov .niti s”e s o ff f ao nur
N theatrical fam er y o English
N : N s A — The Atlantic
: SA { “If the magical,
: À Y exuberant, life-embracing,
: : lyric spirit of late
Shakespearean comedy
were to come back at the
end of the 20th century
in the form ofa novel with
a contemporary feminist
slant, Angela Carter's
WISE CHILDREN might
be the vehicle... The glow
of poetic fantasy Carter
casts creates a kind of
Shakespearean disbelief.”
—San Francisco Chronicle Review
Also available by
Angela Carter
in Penguin paperback:
The Bloody Chamber,
Nights at the Circus,
Heroes and Villains
and Lo ve
At bookstores now
Illustration: Roxanna Bikadoroff
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:02:57 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms