Feminist
Bookstore
News TING hthaa
Bis
for
Book
Coloring
The
S|
By Sudie Rakusin
28 pages Bis"
yuh
Full color front and back i. |
cxaThesea
COLORING 25 detailed pen and ink drawings
to color, of sodden
BOOK For
.| BIG GIRLS angels, guides at
friends, each with
Ra Sudic Rakusin Re a caption,
|
beautiful adult book filled with
This is a
drawings of strong, high spirited womyn.
Something to cherish for womyn of all ages,
a special gift for all rites of passage.
Winged Willow Pres
D Ii Ss Bt Nr ib 0u -t 9e 6d 64b 8y 5L -a 0d -y 3s li Rp ep te ar a pn rd ceN $9.95
i l i
0Feminist Bookstore News
As we 60 to PreS6... Ly
OK, I admit it. I did actually dance around the
office singing “Ding dong, the witch is dead. The
wicked witch is dead....” when I heard that the
Ingram/B&N deal had collapsed. And I’m sure I’m
not the only one! What a relief! It feels like the first
major break in what has beena relentless onslaught. It “lesbian” by saying it as often as possible). That was
gives one hope that there might be a future for inde- fun, but unfortunately no one asked Roseanne about
pendent bookselling after all.
her past life as a feminist bookseller; she was a mem-
More good news: The new feminist bookstore in ber of Denver’s old Woman to Woman feminist
New York City, Bluestockings, is open. (See page 13.) I bookstore collective. I recall her saying, years ago, that
cannot begin to say how wonderful it is to have a it was those women who first understood her humor,
women’s bookstore in NYC again, how important it is told her she was funny, and came to all her gigs.
for our collective visibility and image, and what a sig- Energy at ABA/BEA was high, too, (see page 6)
nificant and ongoing impact having a viable and as independent booksellers imagined a future with
visible NYC store will have on cor- successful, affordable Internet
porate publishing for our
Turn to pase 37 sales sites, celebrated the increas-
communities. Now our job is to all ing stability of independents’
pitch in and help with the visibility
market share (and the fact that
(or all the best
and viability part. Help any way sales at the four biggest chains rose
you can: Tell everyone you know only 8.7 percent last year — vs. 14
sidelines
about the new store. Send travelers percent the year before — the
there. My contribution will be to slowest rate of growth in six
make some introductions and con- (or (all and years), and, of course, celebrated
nections while I’m in NYC in July. being in a different venue.
And my personal campaign? I’d holiday sales.
like to find someone(s) to finance Enjoying all this fun stuff and
getting the new store up on good news? Turn to page 5 for the
Booksense.com for the first year ($500 for the setup, latest in the Amazon Bookstore vs. amazon.com law-
then $200/month for 12 months), so that all the suit. Personally, I’m entertained by how quickly
ex-Judith’s Room, Djuna Books, and WomanBooks amazon.com jumped to add disclaimers to all of its
customers can order books from the new store, Web pages the minute the NYT complained that ama-
regardless of how often they actually get to Blue- zon.com was illegally publishing its bestseller lists
stockings’ lower east side neighborhood. Anyone and using its trademark. But, gee, it never has done
want to take me up on it? the same for Amazon Bookstore, despite using its
More good news: Pride and Joy, the Northampton name all these years. To remedy that, Amazon Book-
bookstore, was featured on The Roseanne Show, as store has filed a preliminary injunction asking for a
part of Roseanne’s “Lesbian Show” (in which disclaimer, a hyperlink, and the cessation of all adver-
Roseanne and everyone else on the show went out of tising in the Minneapolis/St. Paul metropolitan area
their way to demystify that scary scary scary word, now, rather than waiting for the results of the trail.
July / August 1999
Volume 22 Number 2Feminist Bookstore News
financM ie aa l nw ch hi al le le, n geh se re t haa tt F alB l N, t he we r’ esr te off ac thi en g int dhe e pes na dm -e | y ato u F Bh Na ve o r c co on nt ta ac ct ts f ao nr y SU oC f CE te hs es fu S] i nf d u Taising call my
ent book industry is facing. Most of our subscribers members (see Page 8). “Ising eg itt :
are independent bookstores, and when they close, we Re
slo ms ae l l on pe r esof s eso ur — so iu nr cc le us d inof g i fn ec mo im ne i. s t In pd ree sp se en sd e —n t haa vnd e like tA o n td h anl kas t al— l ofb u Ft BN'e sr h sath Kath ; otal I'd
been forced to cut advertising budgets as they attempt Mae Rutledge, and Lisa McGowan ( Werhane, Ter
to navigate the difficult terrain of publishing in a tran- back on a part-time basis to get us a 4S come
sition time. Meanwhile, the ever-consolidating mer) for taking up the slack, taking on = Bh the sum.
corporate publishers are cutting the number of are really possible, carrying my load wh si Jobs than
t“ hm ei d-l ti is tt l” es ti ttl he as t th wey o ulpu db lis bh e ( fal el mt io no isof tt -e bn oot khe ss te ora ere ka en ed p fo ar pt lh aei cr e i in nc r te hd ei bl we o rlpe dr so fon ra l FBs Nu , pn too a fie nd stw vt t p
bestsellers), as well as advertising and promotional finance the work it does, and walk ehiouh es
budgets. All of which puts dents in our other primary challenges. This Sidelines issue, and the May Wee
source of income. We’ve compensated in the short issue, are truly their gifts to the feminist book woah ~~
run by splitting up the office manager job among the
remaining staff (Kristin, do we ever miss you!), by Yours in Spreading the Words,
consolidating Announcements, Thataway, Back to Carol Seajay
Press, and Writing Wanted into one article in this
issue, by holding some news stories for next issue, P.S. Our primary email server imploded as we ———
and generally tightening our belts in every way possi- went to press. We trust we'll have everything trans-
ble. If anyone has ever had the urge to lay a few grand ferred to anew service and working again long before
on FBN, this would be the best possible time to do it! If you read this.
FBN DUE DATES
Fall
Announcements
Sept - Oct Nov - Dec Jan - Feb
Articles July 2 September 3 November 5
Ad Reservations July 9 September 10 November 12
Ad Mechanicals July 16 September 17 November 19
News Column Items July 16 September 17 November 19
Letters July 21 September 22 November 24
Se
OOKSTORE
t wfF h eeE e lm lM i I ni iN n asI f st S o rT a fm n ea d mlB i nO f iseO n tmeK it nS w i boT s or tO ok - kR i snE eco llf li enN f reE e sdm W iS n b ii o ns ot k i Es s nt gbt oh lo re ao e nk s dsc ,to o im nr m e Etu s uhn . e i oc pU. ea F S ,t B . i No a An n us d sr e ra aCv lc ae ih ah ne ,i a sc dl ae 5 e0f a wo 0 sr l N NMe aE Et yt W W,e r S Ss Jua l(r ayIe t,S St N 2Sh : 1e e 8p 00 tr 7e es 4 mp 1 b Bo - ren y6 rs a5i , n5b ti 5 l ) ai nt Sdy ti s eo p N ef tu o bt vlh ee i ms 2bha 0u e e 7t d ,rh or a bs Sy: an o FF E n BE nN n cie iN r s co : SO TCa O Mr AKy , S ST 9 T4O EM 1a R R1r 0c E :h .,
r t N r # n O A
ctZ ee oaa mcl pha ren ird ss, e, I tn b hd o ei oa, k eJ mra aep iva nin de ew rer a sn ,d p tK hue ebn ly ia ss, uh be sr cL s ri ib bra ear rni sda n s, f Se imi gW n no i em s dte n' ab rs i b icl liS eo st p u hd i ai l ne e ds s P PP le Or e i ao s Bd e oi c a s 8l es 8n 2d 5P 4ao ,ds dt ra Seg ase ns Fp c ra h ai nd a cn ig sa et s Sa t Con F 9ER 4M 1e I 8Ne 8I -n S 2T 5a .O OKSTORE NEWS
r o f . t x 5 c o A 54
umber ?
July/August 1999 Volume 22. NFeminist Bookstore News
oly CONTENTS
EDITOR & PUBLISHER Carol Seajay
ASSISTANT EDITOR Teri Mae Rutledge
ADVERT. & PRODUCTION Kathryn Werhane SIDELINES SUPPLEMENT............... 37
ADVERTISING SALES | isa McGowan Booksellers Faves & Raves ..............004 39
COLUMNISTS Sidelines fora New Feminist Front.............. 45
Art Books: Tee Corinne ;
Canadian Books: Jacqueline Dumas The Joy of Selling Sex Toys co BS Reet Rens See ee 49
Gay Men's Literature: Richard Labonté Calendar Round-Wpi2000: ges fece eer peeeeomeenee 55
Kids’ Lit: Linda Bubon ;
Music: Susan Frazier & Barb Smalley Music News) jc. S hale Ged lege Silla eee Uae ae ee ea 61
Mysteries: Nan Cinnater Video: News®) -2u58 Sea"! See 65
SciFi/Fantasy: Laura Quilter sy at
& Heather Whipple THeSIGGlINGS koe cv heey ee ee Se SF 67
University Presses: Mev Miller
Video: Liz Wermcrantz
ARTICLES
PROOFREADERS a
Sarah Fallon, Sarah Holmes, Feminist Bookstore Opens inNYC.............. 13
Kirsten Janene-Nelson, Charlotte Mautner, 100 “Best” L & G Novels? — And Commentary. ...... 15
Lisa McGowan, Karen McKevitt, Nous F
Stephanie Provines, Dena Taylor,
duliewianiolineuccrNiallon Amazon Bookstore vs. Amazon.com Update * BEA 99 «
FB-Days Report » FB-Net Membership * ABA Report
: B&N/Ingram Deal Dead
COVER ART Shiloh McCloud
DEPARTMENTS
AG:INdeXs $5 nt Fee ae het ee Coe ee ee 123
HOW TO REACH US
Annouricements=i5 Rate ee. See eee eee 21
TELEPHONE 415-642-9993 .
Classified /Ads=\.. 2. Fak Ft 4 See eee 124
FAX 415-642-9995 =
Subscription.Information, = oe: Se. quae) vee eens 118
U.S. POSTAL SERVICE
Feminist Bookstore News Writing: Wanted sais: os Bei dce Sn eee i ree 22
PO Box 882554
San Francisco CA 94188
DELIVERIES THE BOOKS
2180 Bryant Street #207 PL BOOKS YS steariAe GaSec © C R 26
San Francisco CA 94110 ;
MIVSICHCS MM ci-A. Bes sees! «fe. t ing 8. ae 3 “Oe 23
EMAIL
General Info: FBN@FemBkNews.com QurOwn Presses hati enue) he ths cums as eeone Ae ee 29
Editor & Publisher: Carol\@FemBkNews.com BUBIEKGRS ROW cle ee 107
Assistant Editor: TeriMae@FemBkNews.com a
Advertising: Kathryn@FemBkNews.com science Fiction Gchantasy, ance 2 eco e Ves SS ae 27
Advertising Sales: Lisa@FemBkNews.com Seema or oen e cra 33
Printed in the USA Whiversity: Presses. =" ee res i ee 97
Volume 22 Number 2 3 July/August 1999e
=
Bookstore News
Feminist
S
S
Koen offers a huge selection
of all the newest titles from
the best gay and lesbian
and independent presses.
CALL TODAY!
1-800-257-8481
KOEN
«FIRST
10 T Fw Ao X soK 8mo 0ee 0 n - 2D 2rB 5io v -o e 3k 8 4e 0D i s Mt or *oi b ru e Wt s Wo t Wr o .s w, n k, OI enc n, N J co0 m8 057
K .
Julyy/ /A August 1999 = jume 22 Numbe r2
oluFeminist Bookstore News
|
News News News
relief — including the fact that Amazon Bookstore has
“Stop Using Our Name
been using the trademark since amazon.com founder
in Our Town!”
Jeff Bezos was six years old.
The motion also cites Bezos’ and amazon.com
Amazon Bookstore vs. A.com Update spokespeople’s statements that the name “amazon”
was carefully chosen over a period of months and
On Monday, June 21, Amazon Bookstore and its that a trademark lawyer was involved in the process.
law firm, Fish and Richardson, filed a motion for a It also points out that, assuming that a competent
preliminary injunction to keep amazon.com from trademark search was done, amazon.com knew
using Amazon Bookstore’s trademark in the seven about Amazon Bookstore well before it went online,
counties making up the Minneapolis/St. Paul given that any competent trademark attorney would
metropolitan area. have ordered a search from a trademark searching
The injunction requests that the court order service and any such service would have included a
amazon.com to refrain from advertising (via news- search of the Dun & Bradstreet database and the
papers and magazines, television, radio, billboards, American Business Information database (which
buses, bus shelters, etc.) in the seven counties, and also includes phone books and directories). Trademark
to place a disclaimer and hyperlink on amazon.com’s searches cost about $330 in 1995, the year the organi-
homepage. The disclaimer request is in lieu of asking zation that became known as amazon.com was
amazon.com to refrain from displaying their Web site choosing a name. The motion points out that Ama-
or from shipping books to the seven-county area. It zon Bookstore has been listed in Dun & Bradstreet
would alert customers looking for Amazon Book- since 1991 and that it has been listed in the telephone
store’s Web site that they are not at the correct site. The book since at least 1980. The motion further points
hyperlink would get them to Amazon Bookstore’s site out that amazon.com, which joined ABA in 1994,
quickly and efficiently. All of amazon.com’s Minneap- would have had access to ABA’s membership lists,
olis/ St. Paul-based affiliates would also be required to and that Amazon Bookstore has been a member of
add disclaimers and hyperlinks. ABA since 1986.
“Amazon.com’s aggressive and accelerating It also cites Amazon Bookstore’s interaction with
efforts to promote its name,” the motion reads, amazon.com at the 1997 ABA convention, the first
“threaten to overwhelm Amazon Bookstore in an convention where amazon.com had a public
area where amazon.com unquestionably has no right presence.
to use the name ‘Amazon.’ Its actions warrant injunc- The motion states, “[Bezos] spent three months
tive relief to prevent continued encroachment upon of deliberate thinking looking for an alternative name
Amazon Bookstore’s trademark rights while [the law- [when his first choice, Cadabra, was vetoed]. The
suit] is pending. Amazon Bookstore is entitled to name ‘Amazon,’ undeniably arbitrary and distinc-
much broader injunctive relief and will prove thatata tive, was perfect in every sense — except for the fact
full trial on the merits. In the interim it must protect that a presumably small, Midwest-based independ-
ent bookstore was using it. While a final answer to
what is — indisputably — its home turf.”
The motion cites a wealth of evidence and out- this question will be had only after depositions of Mr.
lines the legal precedent for such pretrial injunctive Bezos and his trademark attorney, it seems likely that
July/August 1999
Volume 22 Number 2Bookstore News
Feminist
the reason Mr. Bezos een =
Cleis Fall Menu was and i4 s such a strong mark. Howey Was because it
of that strength belongs to Amazon BOL benefit
erground version of the three muske teers amazon.com.” Store, not
Our und
SUBGurlz The motion also outlines the w
~ J D“ re S aUn nBn oGi -u df r re l izr n k ii nsC ’a ,p um r cp e o e dc er o - m bi uc ss ti n’no ,i r, raa tn -d g raC ba bm ip ne ’r ' bs a bes b dB o eo o no k ck s es , st or tCe hD a s t, a n Ad mv aida zem ooa s nz , on Ba o. n oc d k o sm to ot rhc e eo r m wp S ae i st d el S€a i e—y lns lei isn n t g h a —t t a h lle A a onm S fda a l rz eso a o if at
are three mutant vigilante dykes I'd like to meet in products well before amazon.com. It Outlines ie
J Iu Sl By, N : $10 1. -9 55 7, 3 4T 4r -a 0d 9e 0 -p 6a pe 1r 2 0 a Jend na ir fk e r su Cb aw ma py e r't su nn we ol r. k” h— as aA pli ps eo an r edB ech ind el Th e Village —pr e wc he id ce hn t if no cr l ud de et e pr rm oi bn li en mg s o bw en te wr es eh ni p tho ef sa imt ir la ad re im tya rk 2
Graphic Novel, Lesbian Studies Voice, The Advocate, Out, Girlfriends, and Curve.
120 pp., 55X85” the trademarks, customer confusion, vendor confy-
A brilliant follow up to The Woman Who Knew Too Much sion, other kinds of business confusion (such as the
The Woman Who Rode to The Moon: confusion among amazon.com’s associates — Many
of whom call themselves associates of “Amazon
A Cordelia Morgan Mystery
Bett Reece Johnson Bookstore” or an “Amazon Bookstore Associate”),
“Combines the lethal acuity of Carol O'Connell's and the confusion in the media (in which ama-
Kathleen Mallory and the elusiveness of Thomas zon.com is referred to as “Amazon”). Customer
Perry's Jane Whitefield ... The author’s talent confusion works in two directions: those who are
shines...” —Publishers Weekly looking for Amazon Bookstore and end up at ama-
zon.com (and then buy books from amazon.com
September, $12.95 Trade paper
ISBN: 1-57344-086-8 when they intended to buy from Amazon Bookstore),
and those who are looking for amazon.com but end
A remarkable memoir by an extraordinary new writer.
up calling Amazon Bookstore’s 800-number (or
Death of the Good Doctor: Lessons
prom the Heart of the AIDS Epidemic faxing or emailing) for customer services.
Kate Scannell The motion also stresses that the burden on ama-
Each chapter of Scannell’s richly detailed and compassionate zon.com of complying with the injunction would be
memoir evolves from her relationship with an individual minimal and cites amazon.com’s own actions as
patient through whom the vast complexities of an epidemic proof: Amazon.com recently began placing the fol-
are filtered and uniquely focused.
lowing disclaimer on its home page, “The New York
Kate Scannell, a lesbian physician who was the medical
Times is the registered trademark of The New York
director of an AIDS ward for several years is now professor
Times Company, which is not affiliated withand does
of Medicine at U.C. San Francisco.
September, $14.95, trade paper not sponsor or endorse the services of amazon.com.
1-57344-0914
Memoir/Lesbian & Gay Studies Amazon.com did this because it was using the NYT 3
The first sex-p lo es si bt ii av ne s c ino m ap r ge eh ne en rs ai tv ioe n sex guide por Wtr ha ed ne ma tr hk e , NY“ TTh e brN oe uw g ht Yo tr hk i s T ti om e ts h e B ae ts tt e- nS te il ol ne rs o f c .al l
The Whole Lesbian Sex Book zon.com, amazon.com voluntarily placed S
A Passionate Sex Guide For All Of Us disclaimer on its Web page and, subsequently, be ‘
Felice Newman
Finally, a truly comprehensive sex guide for amazon.com filed for a declaratory Mae ae to
lesbians and bisexual women! The Whole Lesbian argued that its actions were a reasonable solut!
Sex Book offers information and Support for all the confusion.
ded to the
women who love women —pPartnered and single, Amazon.com had not yet respon
young and old, sexually experienced and new to motion as FBN went to press.
sexual exploration...
October, $16.95 4 Trade Pape: rc
ISBN; -57344-088-4
CLES WN re ie td e g ta ol le usy s, : Cc lo eve ir ss @, aor le .v cie ow m . Copi Cae ls l? UsV is ai t t 1u -s 8 0a 0t w 7w 8w 0. c 2l 2e 7i 9s .p re Ws es .c lio km
e to hear from you,
July / August 1999 2
Volume 22 NumberFeminist Bookstore News
FB-Days
ABA/BEA 99
Almost half (47 percent) of attending feminist
stores reported that they were encouraged or optimistic
BEA 99 was a livelier show than either of the
about the future and an additional 35 percent reported
last two shows in Chicago. We (still) have not seen
that sales had stabilized over the last year or two, with
final attendance figures. Although preliminary fig-
one store reporting that the future looked dismal and
ures indicated a slightly-less-than-last-year figure
that there was a high likelihood that it would close, and
for booksellers, FBN did more business on the con- two stores reporting uncertain futures. The overall shift
vention floor and sold more new subscriptions than
to a more optimistic outlook was due in part to the sad
in both of the previous years combined. Almost fact that many of the stores experiencing difficult finan-
twice as many booksellers attended the Feminist cial situations during the past few years have closed.
Bookstore Network’s annual conference (sched- But the optimism at FB-Days reflected the mood of the
uled, as always, for the two days before BEA opens) entire BEA/ABA convention.
as last year.
Feminist booksellers discussed ways of improv-
The difference was, of course, that the show was ing customer service skills among staff (including
in a different part of the country and so brought in ABA’s new-staff training module), magazine distribu-
“new” faces — booksellers who hadn’‘t attended the tors, Y2K preparation (both in-store and in the
Chicago show in years, booksellers who live closer to community), selling textbooks, marketing and adver-
the Los Angeles venue, and booksellers who would tising in the community, and making alliances with
rather travel to California than Chicago. While there national GLBT and feminist organizations. (“Keep
was the to-be-expected grousing, traveling around your business in the community; keep your commu-
the multi-halled facility was no nity in business,” is a promotion
more complicated than shopping slogan My Sisters’ Words
in a typical mall. Unfortunately, adapted from Herland’s materi-
BEA is back to Chicago next year. als last year and has used with
And in 2001 as well. That’s not a "7 great success.) One topic that the
decision that is in booksellers’
Discussion at FB-Days extended
best interests.
beyond the meetings to mealtimes.
Feminist booksellers are intent on
conversation as they enjoy their
lunch, provided by Koen Book
Distributors, Inc.
Ju/ lAuygus t 1999
Volume 22 Number 2Feminist Bookstore News
g o af nr do c u rp e a ot or i ke n st g tu or a rn ee j sd o .i n t o t W ha ieg lba i en s ni ita en d wct ao sa pg ea r ci o ln m ao rw t a es haft teh me i sn up i co s hs ts i ab b i ol oi sk it tsy e o (.f c C o amC m>h b,a rr ii G ds i gl eda B oo MBk Ars ) u ck(A m <t a nl n ea n wt wa o of rN dG eA s) w @ wo“ W rc oh lra d dr s i sb Bo 0o k@ag)
t e t
b W
es as well as the Ann Christophersen of Women and Ching o>,
an asset to individual Ss
afn le sm re oi n ci ls et d ya hae eb o yo kk nc -o fm m ou un tii it dy e, ua nn dvd gw h nsi w,l e dt h we ar bse R( uC th li ec La d ug g no e heoI f sL ) F aB< nNw c f < sb t no e ao r ckik sms a@ ea fo@o ] tf he e. m c b to k wm n o> e, -w ds aa , yn c o n ne er i F Mi ar est
w e e m aa rn t t( u ss ou mal l i nn do oc o n f l sc t i n g) f i i s ni o o u i lt e c d r o
necessary to launch an adequately large and complex provided by Koen Book Distributors, Inc. ent were
site, and such monies have not yet been forthcoming.
Booksellers also discussed — at length — fund- FB-Net for Next Year
raising both to support network activities and Sara Look will facilitate FB-Days n
programs that can no longer be supported by Femi- Torkildson of A Room of ck Own ae
nist Bookstore News (given that it has also experienced itis.com>), with consultation from Chicagoan Ann
declining revenues in the current book industry situ- Christophersen, will do facilities. Suzanne Corson of
ation) and to alleviate the accumulated debt. We also Boadecia’s Books (<boadbks@ NOrcov.com>) offered
discussed the likelihood that FBN will begin pub- to take over maintenance of the FB-Net e-list The
lishing various columns online rather than in print. Feminist Bookstore Network Steering Committee for
A fundraising committee was appointed to address the next year will be co-coordinators Catherine Sameh
a number of needs. Members include Barb Wieser of In Other Words (<othrwrds@ teleport.com>) and
M(c No )o rdi <n aat mo ar z) ono @f amA zm oa nzo fn e mbB ko so .k cst oo mr >e , (M Mi an rn ye ap Eo ll li es S Ba on od ki To (r <k wi il ld ds io rn i, bkt rea @s au or le .r oD mo >t )t ,y F Ga ii ls db ay o Bf ruW ci kld anIr ,i s
n
s s c m
<Ka mv ea kn .a mu sg wh @ juo nf o.M cy o m>Si ,s te Lr’ is daW o Br rd ys ( aS ny dr ac Su as rae LoNY o) aM na dr y ChE il ll de rn enK a Fv ia rsn ta u (g <h w, fba on od sL @i an od la coB mu >bo )n of Women
n a nt k e k . .
S@HAMBERLIN’S new novel “is a gorgeous melding
of art and scholarship.” *
*
AWhat if the God of Eden were really 2
goddess? What if the fall from grace wel€ 9
fall into agriculture, away from the hunter
gatherer life? And what if someone could
write this oft-told tale in a ravishingly poetic
ee ? Chamberlinj had done sO, fe-creating a world in whic. h humanit; y
and nature live in harmony, with the former celebrating the bounty of the
latter and migrating seasonally among milk-and-honey lands.” —*Booklst
i a
0-31A 2s -o 8 65l 5o 1ok - 1 for « The Merlin of Si Gilles’ Well
$23.95 Available in September od
July/August 1999—_— Feminist Bookstore News
ABA
The mood among ABA members was distinc- of suM pe pm orb te rs b y ga ev ne t hut she i asB to ia cr ad l lya nd aps pta rf of va i ns gt ron tg he sh pro ow -
bt ri av ie nl cy ilu d,p be wa at s. thB oo shk os we ns hie t.. c Eo nm t, usiA aB sA m' s repl la at ce es dt bp oo as re dd ib ncy l- ul da ew ss Roc xh aan ng ne es . CoaTh de (n Re Jw ., Juls iae v Be on o- ksm ee lm lb ere sr
h e h
y ,
skepticism as booksellers had a chance to explore the Madison CT), Ann Christophersen (Women and
demos and ask questions.
Children First, Chicago), Matthew Miller (Tattered
A part of ABA’s larger Book Sense promotion Cover, Denver), Karl Pohrt (Shaman Drum Book-
program, Booksense.com will provide each partici-
shop, Ann Arbor), Miriam Sontz (Powell’s, Portland
pating bookstore with a “front-end” Web site that
OR), Brian Weese (Bibleot, Baltimore), and Lila
will be unique to that store and have space for a Weinberger (Reader’s Books, Sonoma CA). Board
number of unique store features, as well as all of the members who were elected in the recent elections will
now-standard features — a huge database with 1.6
serve on the Booksellers Advisory Council, which
million titles, search engines, book blurbs, covers, will also include booksellers from all of the regional
point-and-click ordering, credit card payment, and associations as well as the Association of Booksellers
wholesaler-based fulfillment — all available for for Children and the Feminist Bookstore Network.
$200/month plus a $500 set-up fee. Independent FB-Net will be represented by Mary Ellen Kavanaugh
booksellers, by and large, see the program as their (My Sisters’ Words). FBN publisher and editor Carol
opportunity to compete with online supersite book- Seajay has been appointed to the Industry Advisory
sellers and to regain a portion of their customer base Council.
and improve sales.
The most common “complaint” seemed to be
that the program wasn’t available last year. Stores B&N/Ingram Deal Dead
also expressed concern that the module that allows
stores to include their own database (and redirect Within days after a Federal Trade Commission
shipping from the wholesaler to the store and/or staff member commented to the media that the FTC
their favorite wholesaler) won’t be available for sev- staff was planning to recommend that the Commis-
eral months after the program is launched, that the sion block Barnes & Noble's application to purchase
referral structure favors general independent book- Ingram, B&N and Ingram announced that they
stores (without accommodating the wide range of would abandon the plan.
specialty bookstores that make up ABA’s
membership), that there is no interna-
tional shipping, and that there isn’t
enough access to titles (since the program
will launch with only one wholesaler,
leaving the participating bookstores with ~~
a new burden of “special ordering” the NEA VKTORL PLBLISTIERS
titles on the database that are not avail-
able at the wholesaler).
Booksellers were also encouraged by
the Book Industry Study Group report
that independent bookstores’ share of the
marketplace appears to be stabilizing,
rather than continuing on the same
downward trend. The fact that the num-
ber of main-store members (5200 in 1993, |
3400 in 1999) actually increased during a
recent month — the first increase in years Teri Mae Rutledge (FBN) and Claudia Lamperti (New Victoria)
enjoy a rare quiet moment in their shared BEA booth.
— was also cheering.
July/August 1999
9
Volume 22 Number 2ookstore News
rrF Ee mi anis et B
independent bookstores to have had
this issue
Beloved Sisters resolved as quickly as possible, jt would
and Loving Friends satisfying to have had a definitive state have been
ment. The
media blitz that would have resulted from
Letters from Rebecca ing would have reached a lot of People. A Such a ry].
Primus and Addie Brown the chance to quote the FTC in the ongoin Nd We lost
§ Campai
1854 — 1868 to educate the public about the danger
S of puttin,
Farah Jasmine Griffin, editor information distribution in the hands 0 f a few Fe
profit-based conglomerates.
SE RR IS E N AN DD S: ! A l etr ti ev re s ti bng e twc eo ell ne ct ti wo on Afof r ican The FTC did a thorough investigation of the sity.
ation and concluded that the impact on the retail
“a | American friends and
marketplace for books would be devastating. FTC's
| romantic companions in investigators heard the concerns of booksellers, con.
19th-century New England.
sumers, and others.
Rebecca Primus was one of the many women who traveled Political entities like the FTC, however, don't
south after the Civil War to teach the newly freed slaves. operate in a vacuum. The outpouring of letters from
booksellers when the deal was first announced, the
Addie Brown worked as a domestic servant in Connecticut
and New York. Their letters provide a rare glimpse into the significant support from various members of Con-
gress, the petition drive (which collected more than
lives and thoughts of two 19th-century New England
125,000 signatures from customers), and the 36,000
Black women: confrontations with southern prejudice, the
letters generated by Working Assets’ Citizen Action
politics of Reconstruction, the struggle to make a living,
program, which kept the public eye and the pressure
self-education, growing political consciousness, and the
on the FTC, all contributed significantly to FTC’s deci-
love of two women for each other.
sion to review the merger very carefully.
Knopf = 0-679-45128-5 $26 But nowhere have I seen anyone address the dif-
ference between this FTC investigation and FIC’s
investigation years ago of the trend among publishers
to give preferential terms to chain bookstores to the
B&N stated that while they did believe the sale detriment of independent bookstores. FTC conducted
could withstand the tests of litigation, they did not a huge investigation, independent bookstores waited
wish to invest the financial resources and could not — for years — for the FTC to take action, and then the
accept the delays litigation would create. B&N will investigation was simply dropped. There were ne
oi inn s dst eee rva sed flp r o bc oe oe kd w ni st oh “ tP hl la rin gB hi” a b(n apd njo eep sce an d)w a ocr boe lnh eso .uu cms ome .s c too n mc ol uu nsi to n ts eio rr ore wc no m im ne vn esd ta it gi ao tin os n, le fia lv in thg irb oo ok ws ?e ll le ar ws
r r a or l o c a t si o s lt d o f u f ol l u t s r r o t e n d n e r h s , e e -
wIn og ur la dm , coin n tw ii nut eh dr ta o wi ln oog k f fr oo rm at nh oe t hd ee ra l, “as pta pt re od p rith aa tt e ”i t s fu aii rt s, t rag de en er la at we s c al pe pa lr y po tol ic ti he e s bo(v oi ka t ih ne d usc to rur yt ,s ) anf do r na ey
s tat oa bo l loe e ik na dtt oon d pb c ee o nnm t dta h eid r nne e u ta e t es bn Pe oiv r one o kgr sva , til od rt io enS sgt t .ha et te hem efe fn e sct ats eth t ah ta et it et m lh ii os g h tr e ep rno vor itt ce ebr se ovau i rns odi gl n aag nts iei zdgt a.nh io ifs oi Ie nc n ,a dp n eo tl p ti e hc d eni ae dms e A, a n g t et e ro s bo cob a—t o a k i swn t h Bo oe rc on eo ks n s ete lh —n lot es re v a i g ap or ple tie ec hm i eee etsn t o aAa le en
e m l y f s t m i n s s
Because Ingram and B&N — have shown that they will not tolerate cleat ood
cation to the FTC for the sale, th gal behavior, that they are ready and able to ae soi
ing on the propo: and win. The FTC, in considering whether to eet
companies
from having to a tize this investigation, faced a significantly d exis-
retail, political, and legal climate than was 1?
tence when it dropped its earlier investea A
ABA’s success with litigation is a vital pe oe O
changing climate. ane Noni?
10 VolumePS OP COT CON GT COD Cd GOT CO FeOmiSni st BoIokSs tore GNIeSws
Charming
and honest
al
Jane Addams is restored to us as a real person: a fascinating, vulnerable,
intelligent, funny, and, above all, deeply principled human being.”
—REEVE LINDBERGH, author of Under a Wing
USEFUL
WOMAN
She Gil, Bee a
JAN E A DDAM S§S
A fascinating look at the life of Jane Addams, founder of the Hull-House
settlement and winner of the 1931 Nobel Peace Prize. With access to
hundreds of previously unavailable documents, this is a revealing portrait
of one of the most important and intriguing women in history.
“An interesting read, thought-provoking
on a number of levels.”
—GERALDINE FERRARO, former member of Congress
“An excellent study.”
—Stups TERKEL, author of The Good War and My American Century
a “Vivid and captivating.”
, A Lisa Drew Book
RY SCRIBNER —BLANCHE WIESEN COOK, author of Eleanor Roosevelt, Volumes I and II
A Dai ‘sion of Simon & Schuster
A VIACOM COMPANY
Www.SimonSays.com
=
uly /August 1999
Volume2 2 Number 2 11 FEESFeminist Bookstore News FR BOOK AWARDS BEA FINALIST FOR BEST FICTION 1995
PUBLISH
INDEPENDENT
7
The Geography of Women: A Romantic Comedy
by Jack Fritscher PALM DRIVE PUBLISHERS
$9.95 paper, 1-890834-25-4, Available
“So much dish, you’ll want a front row seat."—Lambda Book Report
Celebrated as one of the most diverse voices in American writing Storyteller Jack
Fritscher pro-actively scores 100% inclusion in this feel-good novel of three Women
coming-of-age, inventing themsleves, and keeping the torch of true love Ourning —
girl-to-girl. The dialog is as zingy and funny as a one-woman show. The character.
driven story develops a comedy payoff in a 3-way girl-meets-girl plot. The tomboy
narrator, Laydia Spain O-Hara, and the town innkeeper, untangle 14 characters’ lives
in the nostalgic 1950s Heartland of Southern Illinois where everyoody knows every.
body's business.
Herotica 6
The Strap-On Book
Edited by Macy Sheiner
Penetrating Philosophies
$12.50 paper, 0-940908-95-3 and Practicalities
Available
DOWN THERE PRESS Jan Brown
$11.95 paper, 1-890159-10-7
The newest volume in the
Available
Herotica series focuses on women
and their partners, in unexpected GREENERY PRESS
combinations and surprising
relationships.
Whether your're male or female,
Ten years after the publication
gay or straight, conservative or wild—
or somewhere in between—strep-on
Play offers a multitude of options for sexy, safe fun.
This is the first-ever book devoted entirely to the hows ie
whys of stap-ons, created by author Jan Brown, a joumelist
Strap-on aficionado of many years’ experience. It explains a
to choose, wear, use and accessorize your strap-on, with ie
of insights into the philosophy and politics of penetration ah
arms of her lover—oy lovers, ath ne d w oa ry i. e ntF ae ta it ou nr si ,n g ani dn te tr av si te efw us l lyw it ih l lus stt rr aa tp e- d.o n Thl eo ve Sr ts rao pf -Oall n 3¢ 8 "
iS @ must-have for any sexually adventurous single OF couple:
Phone orders 1-800-626-4330 OF
1-800-243-0138
FAX orders 1-800-334-3892
mber 2
Volume 22 NFeminist Bookstore News
Feminist Bookstore Opens in
Flew York
City
— Kick-off Party Draws 350
By Teri Mae Rutledge
Ona hot June weeknight on New York
City’s lower east side, 350 people gathered
to celebrate the grand opening of the city’s
newest independent and only feminist
bookstore, Bluestockings.
One of the women behind Bluestock-
ings, Kathryn Welsh (front-end member of |
the fledgling collective), said that the party
was “Wonderful. Very touching. People
kept coming up to me and telling me how
moved they were by [the establishment of
a feminist store in New York City].
“The store was packed, the sidewalk |
flooded. I kept having to interrupt the pro-
gram to rearrange people.” Dorothy Allison provided the store with its second
Amy Cahn (a back-end Bluestockings collective huge headline event.
member — she lives in New Orleans) said that the The opening-night crowd was mostly young
crowd could have easily filled another space the size women, reports Kathryn, who wondered if some of
of Bluestockings. “The party took up half the block!” the older members of the feminist community were
she said. turned off by the billing of the event. Bluestockings
The party program boasted readings by Minnie advertised the event as a party, and Kathryn specu-
Bruce Pratt, Alix Olson (OutWrite poetry slam win- lates that more women may have come if the event
ner and national slam competitor), Emmy Gay were simply called a “reading.” Additionally, she
(comedienne), Ali Liebegott (another talented young wondered if working people might have been put off
by the idea of a party on a weeknight.
writer), and “bitch” (a local performer). Alix wrote a
poem about her search for the history and derivation But the involvement of all those young feminists
of “Bluestockings” for the event, which will be was tremendously gratifying, she says. The general
framed and on display in the store. feeling was one of ownership, that Bluestockings was
The opening of the store was widely (and obvi- their place.
ously well) publicized, and write-ups of the opening Amy Cahn concurs. “The thing that has amazed
appeared in the City pages (a local section) of the New me, from the moment I stepped into the space, is how
York Times and the New York Blade. On June 12, much a collective it really is, how much a part of the
—_ Ju/ lAuygus t 1999
Volume 22 Number 2 13Bookstore News
Feminist
What 172 Allen Street looked |ik b
LB el su se st to hc ank in tg ws mC oo nn ttr ha sc ,t or neg ot her h
o o j j
and a Coat of paint later Kath
contractor realized their ! Wonr aNd the
us what they wanted.
And tellin
they want these things fro g Us that
bookstore.” The event, WhicM ha WAf Se min fi res et
cf(g oer A no m ds y is te id ls la naya irsb o u tt h ba ut $ i3 tmK .5 )aa0 kt ihi nrn yd n &o aN Pa rt poi lbo uan gbs fa n g anS a ele as i, Ua
w d o ns y l y M a d rg
o r
o g n
As for the space itself, Amy says thatit
is gorgeous. The building contractor used
recycled materials to create a Space that is
bright and colorful. She fashioned a front
c cn fe lue e asli itg moh o imfb ne o grr B sh l , tuo heo eh sd et. r so t” oc v rk o eiA l n um ag n sy s t e te hrc t eor s e , rd sKi ,a at ”s t n dh rt hyh etne h e’ ssc m yo e sm .da im p apu .rn oi a “t Pcy eh o- po ltw o e n e h aed rr e O “th Ape e n vi ed rnr ygo p np iu ce p ed c o stu h pn c e at e ce i elr s .i p ”n a g cf s er .o m t o “ It t’rw seo v e wao ell l d coad mo ito i nr n gs ,c ”ea in ld i An mgr ye m ao b sov ave ie dd , ,
i s a
tu in vd ee rA bm ohy oe r sh tba oes l t s o —m ie ns hec o el wl woe c rt ki Oev rde eb aio nno sk .as ne l ‘l Ii 'n mg hie dsx etp e ir nci ioe tln eec ye ft oi rv el by uB sl iru nue ens t so !ac nk di ng fus l, l y w vh oi lc uh n tew eil rl - stev ae fn ft eu da ll sy pa cb ee , a is co ol ple ec n-
a n a r c l lc -
k r e N l s
f
s fc apo la lm .c m e Si , h”t e t e s ahd e n d st ao y s.b ei Sn heg pa l anp sa rt t o o mf o va e fe tm oi n Ni est w c Yo ol rl ke ct ti hv ie s n77 e7 w- 60B t2l e8u l,e e s pt ho e oc m nak eii ln g ns u, < m b bl e1 u7 re2 s t aA ol ncl dke in n e g m@ aSt j i. p l, s.N anY de drt eN > sY . s .)1 0 (0 N2 o7 t; e 21 t2 h 0- e
to open Bluestockings
since last summer.
The store is
direction; the
Volunteers,
a
more wome
One of
Struck
hit
S,Makj : exciteq |/2 Allen Street, now Officially and beautifully Bluestoe ings, B ro un c e6 ) pratt
July/August 1999 NS Suggestions telli US night! (L tho eo k firc sl t os ofe ly f ive— peit rfre oa rl mly e rs3 i s , th re e as da s me t o s ap na ce ov! e) r f1 i) llM | u 7se: <i pet?
14 VoluFeminist Bookstore
News
100
“Best”
L & G Novels?
or
The Problem with “Best of” Lists
A project sponsored by the Publishing Triangle In an effort to provoke discussion and broaden
. Death in Venice by Thomas Mann the audience for lesbian and gay literature amongst =
. Giovanni's Room by James Baldwin all readers gay and straight, The Publishing Triangle
. Our Lady of the Flowers by Jean Genet assembled a team of 14 judges to create a list of “The PNW
. Remembrance of Things Past by Marcel Proust 100 Best Lesbian and Gay Novels.” RBA
. The Immoralist by Andre Gide Criteria included literary merit, influence, and
. Orlando by Virginia Woolf significance to lesbian and gay readers and writers. AODOO
. The Well of Loneliness by Radclyffe Hall The judges were the lesbian and gay writers Dorothy
. Kiss of the Spider Woman by Manuel Puig Allison, David Bergman, Christopher Bram, Michael
. The Memoirs of Hadrian by Marguerite Yourcenar Bronski, Samuel Delany, Lillian Faderman, Anthony
Heilbut, M.E. Kerr, Jenifer Levin, John Loughery,
. Zami by Audre Lorde ODO
. The Picture of Dorian Gray by Oscar Wilde Jaime Manrique, Mariana Romo-Carmona, Sarah —
Schulman, and Barbara Smith. The judges created a _— _
12. Nightwood by Djuna Barnes list of 500+ nominations that was whittled down to
13. Billy Budd by Herman Melville the published list amid much debate and conflict.
14. A Boy's Own Story by Edmund White Votes were tallied using a weighted average system.
15. Dancer from the Dance by Andrew Holleran A national publicity campaign includes
16. Maurice by E. M. Forster “Expanding the Canon: What is a ‘Gay’ or ‘Lesbian’
17. The City and the Pillar
Book and What Do We Mean by
18. Rb uy byG fo rr ue it V Ji ud nal g le Would i7 t have been a‘ nBe ds t? m’ a” i lie nv ge nt ous t, 70p 0r o pm oo st ti ero sn s feak ti ut rs -,
iS Bby rdR ei cta h eM aa se RB er vio sw in t ed so di“ fC ff: i cult ing "olth ce h an“ n1 e0 s0 B Be ost w” e rl sis t. chai’ of “The
by Evelyn Waugh to come up Publishing Triangle, says the list
20. Confessions of a Mask i “raises questions unique to gay and
by Yukio Mishima with nine more lesbian literature and serves : ‘ab
i : ent purpose than previous litera
a ee Rca great lesbian novels¢ ste We hope this list will provoke
22. City of Night by John Rechy debate about how to define a (Bey
23. Myra Breckinridge by Gore Vidal book’ and the implications of such a ee ys aie
24. Patience and Sarah by Isabel! Miller sider the recent success of Michael eee a ee
25. The Autobiography of Alice B. Toklas Hours, a wonderful book which some rea oa vine tt
by Gertrude Stein sidering ‘gay’ while others are consi a ot
26. Other Voices, Other Rooms by Truman Capote ‘crossover’ — where does the = ee
22 87 .. TTh we o B So ers it oo un si an Ls ad ib ey s H be yn r Jy a neJ am Be os w les hs etr ra ii tg ah gt e f ta hl al t? hW ae s bh eo ep ne va ite a l a to a F r ‘J es 2 a e lesb eian and
29. Bastard Out of Carolina by Dorothy Allison gay community and instrumenta
——
July/August 1999
Volume 22 Number? 15> ok
Bookstore News
Feminist
30. The Heart Is a L bo yn e Vl iy r giH nu in a te Wr o olb fy Carson McCullers arid e de a dn d et e di r ,t si es “. a W li ekW ee mt aoa kls ero e ad nh o o p te ch le ai it b me sw si tl l % o fe cnt ai ec e S trai eg eht an
33 3 31 9 ... AM T r hs e S. nP gD e la r el s l i Mo a anw na y B o by Cby riM a tr oy p hR ee rn a Iul st h erwood a1 g0 e0 B oe ts ht rsL es tb ia cn ala ln ed geG ay urN so v We il ts l ti hs at tt he ed og e. n. c. oya
y h s e o h n o h n W y
i
Swimming Pool Library during the month of June, the Triangle sail "T”h fae
34. The
Alan Hollinghurst ers to respond to the list on its i Nite rena.
35 ze by Dorothy Bussy (Dorothy Strachey) <www.publishingtriangle.orgs hee eb sit
36. The Price of Salt by Patricia Highsmith
second, “reader’s choice” version of the a ating 4
37. Aquamarine by Carol Anshaw The Publishing Triangle is an ‘
38. An ho et rih er C Co ou ln et tr ty by James Baldwin lesbians and gay men in publishing, ASSOciation of
by e
—The
Publishing
i : we of the Screw by Henry James Trian gle
41. The Color Purple by Alice Walker
Where are the Lesbianse
42. Women in Love by D. H. Lawrence
43. Little Women by Louisa May Alcott By Carol Seajay
44. The Friendly Young Ladies by Mary Renault
45. Young Torless by Robert Musil
46. Eustace Chisholm and the Works Creating “100 Best” lists always strikes me as q
futile exercise. Such lists are frequently harmful and
by James Purdy
are just plain troublesome at best.
47. The Story of Harold by Terry Andrews
The problems are legion:
48. The Gallery by John Horne Burns
49. Sister Gin by June Arnold First, best is best according to whom? If these 100
50. Ready to Catch Him Should He Fall are best, then obviously everything else is, well, sec-
by Neil Bartlett ond rate. Such lists assume that the creators know all
91. Father of Frankenstein by Christopher Bram of the yo-yos, restaurants, novels, whatever, that
92. Naked Lunch by William Burroughs should be considered. “100 Best” lists are, in practice,
53. The Berlin Stories by Christopher Isherwood subjective offerings dressed up to pass as concrete
54. The Young and Evil by Charles Henri Ford and objective realities.
Second, beating out someone else just isn’t the
and Parker Tyler
95. Oranges Are Not the Only Fruit point of literature. d
by Jeanette Winterson Then there’s the analysis, “My __ Is biggeran
56. A Visitation of Spirits by Randall Kenan better than yours is” just isn’t a feminist thing. Re
97. Three Lives by Gertrude Stein But more to the point, as a ge ‘
58. Concerning the Eccentricities of Cardinal Pirelli community, lesbians don’t have such a va rk
by Ronald Firbank acknowledgment (in terms of having a
99. Rat Bohemia by Sarah Schulman published, for instance) that we can afford ee
60. Pale Fire by Vladimir Nabokov that imply that these books are important— of out
66 6 6 41 2 3 ,.. . MLT T oh h ove e e yrPC ao Dbu s y in s ct i ke o B r n et r 8e )t i hb t aye r Js He a a rn rb ie: st tA en dr W. inntaee i : w cof ro ir tt ik ch se )hm ,a s d ito y ’en st ’ t uto m la r iet kat ece lhr ia tss ha am u tu dc ih e . nc se i(G msi p)v e in sm e it ct h a “t y nm o e t wn e rti o io ttn rse
b C e n y t a l t o e
6 65 6. DLa atBa ht a Crd oe esby Viol b ne evs et r- bo mo ik ap lp er so bia ac nh —is g oi fn aig cto ag ni cv ee awe ee the offects °of
. e n d s a r h p r
m
centuries of discrimination. To expect -yen that
unearth the “best” of lesbian literature, fi press a
literature didn’t get the promo budgets, eit v ible
or the critical attention that would = re the comple*
more than a few of the judges, is to 16" ‘
effects of discrimination.
volume 2
16es
Feminist Bookstore News
The point of this list, of course, is to create a buzz
ff oo rr g wa hy oman d dol ee ssb ia itn cl ri et ae tr ea tur a e. b uT zo z ? “l Weg hi ot si em ize l” i tei rt. a tuB ru et 7 710 .. S Tp hee ci Ca hl anF gr ei le in nds gh si ps b Jy R So ig nce lr irP eyrefitte
b y o a
becom Sue rs ly“ m no or e nl ee g wi at nim ta st e” — mpa on sd at quw oh to as se (e ax np en os be v? 77 32 .. P Sa hr ea ed pi es ro bb yy IJ ro vs ine L Re oz sea nm ta alL ima
e o to i e d i-
g h
ously, no one did), but to create — and publish —a list 74, Les Guerilleres by Monique Wittig
that claims to be the best “Lesbian and Gay” novels 75. The Child Manuela (Madchen in Uniform)
wherein almost 60 percent of the books are by/about by Christa Winsloe
men and only 41 percent are about women (plus two 76. An Arrow’s Flight by Mark Merlis
books by women about gay men) makes a number of 77. The Gaudy Image by William Talsman
Ato nt da ll oy nlu n fa ic vec e op ft a thb el e op— twa en nd h ba or om kf su l are— les st ba it ae nm ?e n Tt hs i. 77 98 .. WTh ae E bx yq ui Gs ei ot fe C Ro yr mp as ne by Alfred Chester
y t t y s s f
list may serve gay men’s publishing, but it doesn’t do 80. Therese and Isabelle by Violette Leduc
lesbian literature much good. First, the most obvious 81. Gemini by Michel Tournier
implication: Gay men write more/better books than 82. The Beautiful Room Is Empty by Edmund White
lesbians do. Implication number two: there just aren’t 83. The Children's Crusade by Rebecca Brown
50 “great lesbian books.” Number three: Books 84. The Story of the Night by Colm Toibin
by/about lesbians are less valuable.... Ad nauseam. 85. The Holy Terrors (Les Enfants Terribles)
But the reality is not that lesbians (and other by Jean Cocteau
women) don’t write excellent books. It’s much more 86. Hell Has No Limits by Jose Donoso
likely that lesbian judges read and voted for more 87. Riverfinger Women by Elana Nachman
books by/about gay men than male judges read and (Elana Dykewomon)
voted for books by women. Or maybe the women on 88. The Man Who Fell in Love with the Moon
the panel were selected because they read (and value) by Tom Spanbauer
gay men’s literature while no such balancing require- 89. Closer by Dennis Cooper
ment was enforced in selecting the male judges. 90. Lost Illusions by Honore de Balzac
I have that familiar feeling, reading through this 91. Miss Peabody's Inheritance by Elizabeth Jolley
list, that lesbians have been invited to the party only to 92. Rene’s Flesh by Virgilio Pinera
be insulted. But if we complain, we're “ungrateful?” 93. Funny Boy by Shyam Selvadurai
Maybe the list just reflects the reality that there 94. Wasteland by Jo Sinclair
are, and have always been, more men in positions of 95: Mrs. Stevens Hears the Mermaids Singing
by May Sarton
power in the publishing industry than there are
women (and, consequently, more gay men than 96. Sea of Tranquillity by Paul Russell
lesbians), and that these men were able publish and 97. Autobiography of a Family Photograph
nurture “their own” in a way that lesbians never by Jacqueline Woodson
98. In Thrall by Jane DeLynn
could. Perhaps the list “ust” reflects that homo-
Phobia is dissolving more quickly than sexism in the 99. On Strike Against God by Joanna Russ
100. Sita by Kate Millet
publishing world, and that there are currently more
Out gay men than out lesbians in the industry. That
reality has a tremendous impact on who gets pub- A lot of people worked hard on this project, and
lished, what gets promoted, what stays in print, and many fought for a more inclusive, representa tive list 3
what is remembered — and thus what makes these they have my sympathy. I respect their efforts ou
kinds of lists. sympathize with the frustration inherent a this under-
To publish a list that is so heavily skewed by taking. But the problem is that “Best-of” lists are a
8ender with no comment regarding the extreme bias no-win situation. It’s the very premise that is flawed.
it reflects and consequently promotes is irresponsible, Perhaps it would have made more sense to have
hurtful, and damning. It is all too clear who it benefits created two lists: “The 100 Best Lesbian Novels” and
— and all too familiar who it harms. “The 100 Best Gay Men’s Novels.” The least the
Se
July/August 1999
17Fe BBm yi : n i Ds ‘ a act hi a ng l sB oo P k TTs r a ait tao n er ge rl e uai’ tt sN h he la ew vl si e es s t sab ‘c e o e u n nl tod ovs o th sd ia i ta fv :v if nee qi uc iu tla htc ah rti o ie sv tc e fo td fm e i s u tp sa b (Nt eo e Tig a one l wt ge nh e snr eH e. ng” u l) dr e os c tA ton We on ndd e. nT n erh e ree v )ai e dr ?r E Vy (awe Ols a s W te ior snne e W tAa ht o rkt elc ’bh ai se ny d1 ’8 P sl eG e o ad s e eq— SyZ W lio vtn ih
i i me c b a i in e r e hc al r : e l h a rtn io H a s n a r Ke ,n oe c e m E p g
e n k t e e e o
o lPv n ea sen bt it w h a i ns e e wle ois rtr , k ie n t h u ab sm eb c be o ee r em a ne e sof s kga i ia m py p p e er dmt a ar tl oe ie v m v eee ra n nd d tto o o u cls l re o es o ab k ti i eam nb c aa hl p ,a lisn t o c Se a O n Aa Deb neeo dmdu ei t rn st go o’w nsh c ’a e r st e h A? e F m or W o rH e r bu' iei mrt d ’ me ds e ri nea nt ca g en l Fn o k itv i rle en yU sl g n ? d d1 eo i9r r4 s 9 c.a o)u M v t y eo W rb h ei a F do et eg tr a aa np qb or h o pu M u bep ie s a re aa r a d
b li ita es re ad uri en fa Tv ho er co rf itea rim aa le is A list that’s almost At the risk of belaboring the obvi.
t .
obviously wide open — o fu os l, a jli us st th dat o’ es na ’l tm os ct 90 it.p er Oc ne ln yt w th hi rt ee
90 percent white folks k s t s u t e
authors don’t have to be gay
women of color? Lesbians of color have
for their books to be on the just doesn’t cut it.
list, characters don’t have to such a proud publishing tradition. Ihaye
be out (yet), novels don’t to ask, how many of the judges have
even appear, necessarily, to require gay/lesbian actually read Anchee Min? Willyce Kim? Shani
content... The following suggestions are hardly Mootoo? Sky Lee’s Disappearing Moon Café? Helen
exhaustive: I compiled them in about ten minutes Elaine Lee’s Serpent's Gift, Cherry Muhanji’s Her?
standing in the middle of my living room. Dionne Brand’s In Another Place, Not Here? Sara Levi
Calderon’s Two Mujeres? Keri Hulme’s The Bone
So let’s start with: Have the contributors heard of People? (It only won a Booker.)
Sarah Orne Jewett? Rosamund Lehmann? Vita Is the problem with Gloria Naylor's National
Sackville-West? Renée Vivien? Book Award-winning The Women of Brewster Place
What about Jane Rule? (Dorothy Allison argues that it doesn’t have enough lesbian characters? Are
for “books that have saved lives” and I’m here to tell they less “out” than Scout? Or just not as white? Do
you Rule’s This Is Not For You certainly saved my we not count, not value, not recognize, not honor the
sorry 17-year-old ass.) It was only published in three forced-into-pregnancy lesbian character(s) in Mar-
countries, by three different publishers — and in an garet Atwood’s The Handmaid's Tale? (Do I detect
era that was hardly lesbian-friendly. What about some kind of double standard? Books with lesbian
Desert of the Heart? (Or do we just write off a novel if characters can be “best” if written by straight men,
we didn’t like the movie?) Maybe it’s simply been too but not if written by straight women?) What about
long since I read The Square by Marguerite Duras, and Mary McCarthy’s The Group? (Clearly some of the
it’s not literature?
books on the list wer
G Toa rl ce lW ih W ge hir tl e h e tol a mr V’e s t ah le lW ae ,r es Dt T io aoo f :At rh ee e Dar rl i fy t ic nl ga ssi aci n s d: Only five of the s te hl ae nc te bd “f ao 1 e:r i mpac : t eN oy r at woh ene ler l
h a lh n a
; dion: d eth
cea Py Bee Frederics,” and Trio and top twenty books ae es. was Radclyffe
andra at the Wedding by Doroth
y Baker? enic. lI’s best book.) Or, ci
eee ib ap athe a Nun's Story? are lesbian‘ eat what about
s f ,
cosm? Ebba Haslun Het ne It Was and The Micro- Patchett’s Magician's Assistant? ts
Spare prose of Lillian ee ee or the sweet What about Pat Barker (but then, she ave
which the narrato Licphous Pearl Bastard (in | literary prizes in Britain, not here), Doris oe a
Paula Sharp, Rose Tremain, Nicole Brossard, ae
Wilson, Maureen Brady, Sheila Ortiz Taye
Livia, Judith Katz, Mary Dorcey (who, of course, 4
gets literary prizes in Ireland), Carol Gues
Sinclair, Emma Donoghue...?
July/August 1999 ber?
Volume 22 N
18_
3
Feminist Bookstore News
“esbiA an nd ” aw nh de re “ funis ” it a rew ri et it te hen r t sh ea lt f -ct ah ne c eld le if ni gn ,i ti oo r ns s imo -f there is indeed a lesbian sensibility and a gay sensibil-
p Gtl rhy e e r ee n’ d so T oa m n ao pt tl oa eca sep p al f noy dr R Sif u t ob nw y ee f r' ut Bie ut t cht J a ul n Bk g li l un e e,g s ? w“ h Db iae tts tt o” a tb hb o eo u o t lk es sF? br ii ae ndI f ai Mt toy e s ta d n ed po f t ht a lh la tt o I bt oeh ulo ris ee v c e o a mr t me h ua ntb iot t th h y e .s d ei s bt oin oc kt s a rn ed f leO cv te ar la a e de - =
m ady ds rt ee sr sy e dg ,e n or ne , ocw ch ae sr ie o n,m a wn iy t h of g ro eu atr c lio tr ee r ai rs ys u me es r itar .e | e av le sn o n wi hst o, I bu oc t wa em m se o st t ho e rt o h fi s sa ull rl i vs it l va c as a la m e l toe t s ob i ti t ha ean s, a a pwr ei rte dr, e ra nd sa o mef oem ni e-
s ff ta ihui eal lm d’e .st d o hu nt an o d b e e sr abs in et do ,a t n ud sg r oee aw eth oy nl i et eY ir sA a t ilhu lirb seo no ek — es sab lua lr t tye o, a eg aa a i pn “p l,r awi ioo nr p i e a, r toh p a sr p me ”s e- b b wfe oo o k c ts wo e. hn is ciT hh d a e t r e bd ew w, a s nla n dm d y dvwtm oahe cnaa t s u ewr ta oe s re m e ot ma e. e Ae eae iHrc eT:e e e .
t To l y c a s Y A t o r i c m n ’ ar I o au at os a wg e i eee
t m s t d x n d t o a t f n v h
why The Friends, ere on My Mind, and Happy Endings | world that so often undervalues the work of women
Are All Alike are not “Best Lesbian Novels” by every | writers — particularly lesbian writers.
definition of the concept. Last fall when I first saw a list of the 100 best
Or let’s just get serious about what makes up a novels, I remember feeling first appalled — there
great lesbian novel as defined by readers in the late were so few books by women on that list — and then
1990s and go directly to Nina Revoyr’s The Necessary predictably pushed to start thinking about what I
Hunger. It deals with the issues of our age: class, would put on my own list of the best. Which books
racism, multiculturalism, sexism — and drive, pas- would Inameas life-saving? That is hoI wcam e to this
sion, ambition. All the issues and qualities that make work, trying to think about what books made me
books gre— auntles s they’re about women. more able to understand my life and the world
around me. Yes, of course, Virginia Woolf. Yes,
The problem with the “100 Best Lesbian and Gay certainly James Baldwin and Jo Sinclair and May
Novels” list is not that there’s a shortage of “best” Sarton and Audre Lorde and Bertha Harris and
lesbian novels — the problem is that it perpetuates the Randall Kenan and four hundred others who did not
invisibility of lesbians and lesbian literature, even make it past the voting process of the committee.
while claiming to promote them. And that it’s done by Some of the books chosen for the final list would not
a group of people who should be committed to eradi- have made it to my own personal shelf of the “best
cating that invisibility, not perpetuating it. O ever,” but all of them meet my criteria of life-saving.
What I hope this list will accomplish is to provoke
people to make up their own lists, and to prompt
1 young readers to go hunting for books they might have
Dorothy Alli son On) trouble finding. I want young people to read Dorothy
3 The Li st z Bussy and James Purdy —so they can judge how much
the world has changed and how much it has not. I want
I agreed to work on compiling the list of the 100 critics and reviewers and readers and bookstore staff
best lesbian and gay novels on the understanding that ers to start arguing about what they would put on their
it would be yet another zen exercise, a task impossible own lists, and maybe wondering why Little Women
by definition — but an aesthetic and ethical struggle | [made] it on this one, and Sula [did] not.
useful to me and my community. Every generation defines itself in its own ano
__ Ido not believe that there is ever going to be one Every generation redefines iSPureEe eS ae
list of the best of anything, and this list is more prob- missals or misunderstandings of those 1
lematic than most. What, after all, is alesbiannovelor | confront to survive. Every generation chase ae
4 gay book? This is something the literary and queer | tothe one before it and to the oF a fo ee
communities have been questioning for years. No, it is what I know about being ne ia a Bailes
'S not enough that a book is written by a lesbian ora | writing. What I want most of a a cand
ay man — though I do like to know that factandIdo | come, the ones we will add to this = as Bee S
believe it profoundly shapes the work. I believe that | without question. —Dororny
Le July/August 1999
Olume 22 Number 2 19Bookstore News
Feminist
RUTGER,
A MAP OF HOPE
Women’s Writings on Human Rights
UNIVERSITY P
An International Literary Anthology
MARJORIE AGOSIN, EDITOR
Available in bookstores With a foreword by Mary Robinson, United
Nations High Commisioner for Human Rights
800-446-9323
or call
Contributors to this anthology include
DESIGN AND Anne Frank, Nadine Gordimer, Barbara
Kingsolver, Adrienne Rich.
FEMINISM
Paper, $19.00, 0-8135-2626-4
Cloth, $49.00, 0-8135-2625-6
Re-Visioning Spaces, Places, and
Everyday Things
JOAN ROTHSCHILD, EDITOR
PRET TY IN PUNK
Foreword by Paola Antonelli, associate curator,
Department of Architecture and Design, The
Museum of Modem Art, New York Girls’ Gender Resistance in a Boys’
Subculture
A collection of essays rethinking LAURAINE LEBLANC
architecture, design, and technology from
feminist perspectives. “Pretty in Punk is cutting-edge feminist
Paper, $25.00, 0-8135-2667-1 and cultural studies research.” —Wendy
Cloth, $50.00, 0-8135-2666-3 Simonds, author, Women and Self-Help
Culture
Paper, $20.00, 08-135-2651-5
The SECOND
Cloth, $50.00, 0-8135-2650-7
GREATES4
Disappoint
ment
A
tae em | HE SECOND GREATEST DISAPPOINTMENT
KH Ao Rn Ee ym DLo o In BIe Nr Ss K, H eterosexuality, and the Tourist Industry at Niagara Falls
N
Y
Ty he Second Greatest Dis; appoin, tment charts the growth
RAREN DU o thf e Ni pra eg sa er na t , as a touris t destination from the 1850s to
BINS Ky
CP la op te hr ,, $$ 52 22 .. 00 00 ,, 00 --8 84 33 55 -- 22 66 55 56 -- 86
1
CAROLINA
MARIA DE JESUS
MB eE hB rO tM nsM EIHY
© and Cristina
e
Be cies want Coe
iad nos 8 MCs SSFeminist Bookstore News
ANNOUNCEMENTS
By Teri Mae Rutledge
Awards
Small Press News The 1999 Lambda Literary Award winners were
South End Press, which publishes books by fa in cn tio ou n:n c Ae nd Ara rt o w’B sE A F ligin h t L bo ys MaAn rg ke le Ms er. l isF or ( St. ga My a rtim ne ’n s’ )s ;
N Lao Da um k e,C ho am ns d ky H, o llb yel l Sh ko lao rk ,s , haH so w ja or id ne d Zin Cn o, n sW oi rn to in ua m (fo Dr ttl oe ns )b ;i an f gi ac yti o mn: n’C sa v se td uw de il el se r Thb ey OtD ho err o St ih dy ofA Sl il li es no cn
u f or e : e e
Book Sales and Distribution.
by John Loughery (Henry Holt); for lesbian studies: A
The Volcano, a zine for your subversive dyke Fragile Union by Joan Nestle (Cleis); for children/
clientele, is now available from AK Press, 415-864-0892. young adults: Telling Tales out of School edited by Kevin
Egales Press, a Spanish gay/lesbian publisher Jennings (Alyson); for lesbian and gay small presses:
based in Madrid, has bought the rights for their fifth the bull-jean stories by Sharon Bridgforth (RedBone
Naiad Press novel, Peggy Herring’s A Moment’s Indis-
Press); for lesbian poetry: Marianne Faithfull’s Cigarette
cretion. Egales has also obtained its first gay men’s by Gerry Gomez Pearlberg (Cleis Press); for gay men’s
fiction titles as well as rights for Rita Mae Brown’s Six poetry: Ten Commandments by J.D. McClatchy (Knopf);
of One. Barbara Grier compares the buying patterns of for lesbian mystery: Shaman’s Moon by Sarah Dreher
the fledgling publisher to that of Silvermoon of the (New Victoria) and Blue Place by Nicola Griffith
U.K. (which has published 70 Naiad titles) and (Avon); for gay men’s mystery: Outburst by R.D.
Fauenoffensive of Germany (which published 50 Zimmerman (Delacorte); for lesbian biography /auto-
Naiad titles). biography: The Indelible Alison Bechdel by Alison
Small Press Distribution is again running their Bechdel (Firebrand); for gay men’s biography /autobi-
promotional program Get Lit. SPD will give any store ography: Wisecracker by William Mann (Viking); for
that puts up a Get Lit display a 45 percent discount on lesbian and gay fiction anthology: Columbia Anthology
display titles as well as posters, signs, and free
national advertising. Last year 30 stores participated;
SPD is hoping to get 100 involved this year. For more
information, contact Brent Cunningham by email
<brent@spdbooks.org> or fax 510-524-0852.
Electronic News
In Other Words (Portland OR) has email. Contact
them at <othrwrds@teleport.com>.
Prairie Moon (Prospect IL) has a Web site. Visit
them at <www.enteract.com/ ~moonerrl>.
Crazy Ladies (Cincinnati OH) has a Web site.
Access it by going to <www.crazyladies.org> and
clicking on the bookstore link. Lambda Publisher Service Award winner, Joan Drury
—
Volume 22 Number 2 21 July/August 1999+ Bookstore News
pee e (Columbia Homo edited by Holly Hughes and pie
Literature edited by Byrne oS ae nonfiction (Grove Press); for §ay and lesbia avid
of Gay - Press); for gay and les N photo
Univers! J ‘ ly and Donna arts: Women in Love by Barbara Sp 4 isual
anthology: Mom a‘ eted by a Nisa Q ueD eo r nne inl Asa i an Delica: Herrera (Bullfinch/Little, Brown) an 4 a and Dian,
Allegra (Aly son) d Alic; e Y. Hom (Temp le by David Leddick (Taschen); fo, leas Male Nuge
Se; eed L. foE r ng l esa bn i an and gay humor: Alec religion/spirituality: Ferocioys Romance‘ Bay
nv t Michael Thomas Ford Minkowitz (Free Press): and for transgend Donna
; eF title:
eas Hye ey SF/fantasy: Bending the Empress Is a Man by Michael Robert Gorman ti ©: The
yee edited by Nicola Griffith and Swe ae ton Park Press). ating.
(Overlook Press) and Galilee by C Ive ee Joan M. Drury of Spinsters Ink was giv
(HarperCollins); for lesbian and gay drama: Publisher Service Award for her many c ontibu the
to gay and lesbian publishing. Katherine y, i,
was awarded the Pioneer Award. The Editors’
WRITING WANTED Choice award went to The Boy by Naeem Murr
(Houghton Mifflin). Overcoming Heterosexism an
Homophobia edited by James T. Sears and Walter L,
Amy Blake and Kelly Smith of A Woman’s Williams (Columbia University Press) won the
GLSEN Contribution Toward Excellence in Educa-
Prerogative (Ferndale MI) are seeking manu-
scripts for their new publishing company, Bella tion Award. Ken Yeager won the Victory
Books, specializing in lesbian romance and mys- Foundation Civic Leadership Award for his Trail-
tery novels. They are planning to begin blazers: Portraits of America’s Gay and Lesbian Officials
publishing in the Fall season, 2000. For more (Haworth Press). Finally, Lillian Faderman and
information, contact Bella Books, 175 W. Nine Jonathan Ned Katz won the Monette-Horwitz
Mile Rd., Ferndale MI 48220; 248-545-5703, email Award for Excellence in Gay and Lesbian Studies.
<Bellabooks@aol.com>.
Alyson is seeking poetry, short fiction, The 1999 Firecracker awards were also announced
memoir, creative nonfiction, personal essays, at BEA. Among the winners are: for fiction, The
and cartoons about lesbians and therapy for a Leather Daddy and the Femme: An Erotic Novel by Carol
humorous anthology: Dykes with Baggage: The Queen (Cleis Press); for nonfiction, Cunt: A ae
L ii ng fh ot rer m atS ii ode n , of Lesbians and Therapy. For more tion of Independence by Inga Muscio (Seal Press); an
email <LezTherapy@aol.coms. for zines, The Fish Tank published by Teresa ae
with a bio and SASE) or queries to and Lisa Zale. Cleis Press was named the outstanans
independent press of the year.
Finally, the 1999 American Book swat
by the Before Columbus Foundation) Mere Farts
at BEA. Among the award recipients are: The Floats
of Bones by Edwidge Danticat (Soho Press), Litent-
ispanic
ay and Lesbian Film a a the 1999 B tuo rr ed e er dl ia tn ed ds : byT w Le an ut ry o- Fi Fv le or esY ea (r Us n ivof e rsU. iS t. y H oi fs p Wa a s: niin anggtt0 o n
Or entry forms and complet iva) this fal] P Ghost Dancine by Anna Linzer Piet i
herub’s Web site: me © Buidelines, visit iages tost ancing y ae (Delta), TH Ay
cherubfilm/s 0, send a SASH eets-a0l com / arming Billy by Alice c a, it Fh
tions, One in Ten Screen to Cherub Produc- Brewster Place by Gloria Nay : Ghote nd é
Box 540, Boulder Co s03a6.2, Competition, PO First People edited by Judi ae
<cherubfilm@aol.coms oe 303-629-3072 email McHutchison (One Reel/ yee fe Timparel
Deadline September ; * here's a $35 entry fee, ce eS es abe : - d of Cinco Pun %
apa || orto wn) o. n A al ns o, e diB to o r /puba ln ishel award. =a < er?
22 Volu :Feminist Bookstore News
a
es MYSTERIES
$i
By Nan Cinnater reminiscent of Elmore Leonard’s prison novels.
Now Voyager/ Provincetown, MA $12.95 tp, 0-9661072-4-1. Avocet Press, 635 Madison
Ave. Suite 400, NY NY 10022; 212-754-6300.
In the heat of summer, most of us are looking for After years of being underrepresented, and
mindless entertainment, page-turning good reads, nearly un-represented, African American women are
beach books. My spring and June columns covered rapidly catching up in the mystery genre. What a
most of the potential summer blockbusters. But who Woman’s Gotta Do by Evelyn Coleman (reviewed in
says beach books can’t be politically correct? Here are the January 98 FBN) is a romantic thriller with
some entertaining yet political mysteries that could mystical elements and a strong African American
end up with sand between the pages. heroine, an Atlanta journalist. ($6.50 pb, 0-440-
23500-6, Dell.) Watch for the sequel to What a
At first glance, Sing It to Her Bones by Marcia Woman’s Gotta Do, out from Simon & Schuster in
Talley looks like any other cozy suburban mystery September (sorry, no details). Easier to Kill is the
with a housewife heroine, but there is a difference. latest in Valerie Wilson Wesley’s excellent series
Talley’s fictional sleuth, Hannah Ives, has breast can- featuring Tamara Hayle, African American private
cer. As the book opens, Hannah has already been eye from New Jersey. Here she’s hired to protect a
through a mastectomy and chemo, and is considering radio personality being stalked by a fan. ($6.99 pb,
breast reconstruction surgery. Hannah tackles the 0-380-72910-5, Twilight/ Avon.) Shades of Justice by
Linda Bullard introduces a Black woman lawyer
cancer head-on with humor and courage, and she’s a
resourceful sleuth as well. The rationale for Hannah’s who’s the special prosecutor on a high-profile case.
involvement in a murder investigation, always a ($6.99 pb, 0-451-19768-2, Onyx.)
problem with amateur detectives, seems particularly
thin, but once disbelief is suspended the action moves
briskly. All in all, this is something a little more
thoughtful to offer the “Murder She Wrote” crowd.
$5.99 pb, 0-440-23517-1, August, Dell.
Maximum Insecurity by P.J. Grady features a
Latina private eye named Matty Madrid based in
Santa Fe, New Mexico, working on the killing of a
convict in the New Mexico State Penitentiary. Matty In May, Pamela Thomas-Graham published Blue
1s a low-rent P.I. who will take almost any case and Blood, the second in her Ivy League mystery series
doesn’t always get paid, but she’s tough, smart, and about African American Harvard economics professor
has a strong network of allies in New Mexico law Nikki Chase, this time at Yale to help out a friend. ($23
enforcement. The author actually worked in the cl, 0-684-84527-X, Simon & Schuster.) I thoroughly
Santa Fe prison, and her insider’s knowledge shows enjoyed Thomas-Graham’s debut set at Harvard, A
in the many scenes set in the penitentiary. In fact, Darker Shade of Crimson. ($6.99 pb, 0-671-01670-9,
Maxiumum Insecurity is so gritty and authentic it’s Pocket.) Fhomas-Graham really knows whereof she
—— July/August 1999
Volume 22 Number 2 23awe News ee an
Feminist Bookstore 2 . ($5($.59.99 , Q . 312-96797 4 "
sw lr ei ut v‘ tet he s s ;: s kh kae B.h CAa h.s sen o nt MBo .ne A . b, erb au lt a n adt h r a ee l a fw ed me ig d nr e ie g sre tes e ! if tr hHo em r ptw M aa ah kr to et si n n’ tp s ur . pe ) d ol fH w a hr e Jt r a’ nes ’n sWe w i c lk oh e va edr rd co Gv isae r m, e s uH ru dn eet r; ef WhW eit n» c h, St,
H a r a r d N: i i , a a i s a li n d a w a i e e m d 7 a
clear take on racism, Hes es A Ga ae 0-312-20386-1, September, St. Martin’s,) ' ($24.95,
: stery both fresh a : Lost Daughters is the long-awaiteq
New hard.
da ebe at e the e mh ere itu sr of d the et e wc ht ii tve es mar lo eu n Wd e stu ep r n Su cs anp oe nC s Ve ~ wco iv inne nnir ni g nf gr om T heJ .M. I ntR ee rd sm ea ctn in o, n t ofh oe f Ls e Laq wu el a ndt o Dh ee sr irL ~ea a, m bda-
sus a Am nu ol tt hi ec ru lt cu or na tl e nc du er rr ic fou rl u tm h? e Amanda Cross crown b foa r yo hu er- br oe wd n N me ow th eO rr .l ea ($n 2s 4 .9P 5.I ,. M 0-i 3c 9k 3e -y 0 40K 2n 8i 'g 3h t sea yt
dis e mJ io ca nn Ke a reD no bs Po eln l, e tiew rh , o a w wr oi rt kes i nga -b co lu at s s ou st cs hi od le ar r a ac na d- In September we / ll have Sleepié n g Bones, U N to hr e ton.)
former battered wife. In addition to a neat evocation hardcover from Katherine V. Forrest, published
of academic politics (which we all know can be mur- Prime Crime/Berkley. ($21.95, 0-425-17029-2,) }
Absent Friends is the latest in Gillian Linscot’
der), the mysteries themselves turn on clues found in S
scholarly research. I liked the first of these, Quieter series about suffragette Nell Bray. Celebrating the
than Sleep, which delves into research on Emily end of the Great War, a man dies lighting a fire-
Dickinson. ($5.99 pb, 0-553-57660-7, Bantam.) cracker, and Nell investigates on behalf of his widow.
Dobson’s new paperback, The Northbury Papers, The catalog copy says, “she must show a dedication to
concerns forgotten 19th-century women writers truth as strong as her loyalty to women’s rights in
($5.99 pb, 0-553-57661-5, August, Bantam), and her order to solve the case.” So far, this series has not
new hardcover, The Raven and the Nightingale, is appeared in paper, so it hasn’t developed a large fol-
described as “an Edgar Allan Poe mystery” ($21.95, lowing, but it sounds great. $20.95 cl, 0-312-20765-4,
0-385-49339-8, October, Doubleday). St. Martin’s.
Ordinary Justice by Trudy Labovitz provides a There are lots more summer mysteries which may
strong feminist perspective on domestic violence. Zoe be less political, but are nevertheless of interest to
witnessed her best friend’s murder at the hands of an feminist booksellers and readers. One of my favorite
abusive husband. Now a private detective in D.C., British writers, Janet Neel, has a new mystery featuring
Zoe runs into another abusive situation. $12 tp, civil servant Francesca Wilson and her policeman
0-883523-31-1, Spinsters Ink. husband. In To Die For, Francesca helps out old
friends Selina and Judith, restaurateurs who are being
pressured to sell. Neel comes as close as anyone has to
writing contemporary versions of Dorothy L. Sayers
golden age mysteries, which is saying quite a lot.
$21.95 cl, 0-312-20598-8, St. Martin’s.
__ On the darker British side, Julia Wallis Martin's
first novel, A Likeness in Stone, was nominated for
markeA t n fu rm ob m er m aio nf stl res eb ai ma n m yi steries ar € out i; n mass an Edgar Award, and she is being compared to
Minette Walters. In A Likeness in Stone, retit
publishers. You can’t afford
detective Bill Driver reopens an old case when the
Scoppettone, latest and body of a missing woman is finally found ina house
New York P.I. Lauren La long submerged by a reservoir. ($6.50 pb, 0-312
Ballantine.) Mary Wing 97077-3, August, St. Martin’s.) Apparently Martin,
like Walters, is not writing a series; her new novel,
more? ($6 6. .5 50 0, , 0-425- - 1693 5-9, B The Bird Yard, features a different British detective
eee
Ellen Hart has ea hunting down the killer of several missing children.
witT ha oo lo ngL -a dw il ses ts a ncs eer ie rs e, l aI tn i oW ni sc hik pe d a ndG ar m ee: cTh re a ftC ea dm ,b ri cd hg ie ll inE gv ,e nin ag n d.N .e .w cs o mc pa ul lle sd i vi et l“ yT mm ra ec au dal b le:
July/August 1999 ($23.95 cl, 0-312-20500-7, September, St. Martin’s-)
24 7 Number?
VolumeeS Feminist Bookstore News
Another Walters wannabe, Teri Holbrook, The Falcon at the Portal i
brings American Gale Grayson back to England, 0-380-97658-7, Twilight/ oe oe aS PES
where she finds a body ina mill stream in Sad Water. Artist/sleuth Sam Jones is the girl in The Black
This is the third in Holbrook’s much-nominated Rubber Dress, a debut mystery by Lauren Henderson
series, but she has yet to find her audience in our that looks to be a very hip, noir mix of white collar
store. Her previous titles were The Grass Widow and A crime, drugs, and murder. $12 tp, 0-609-80438-3
Far and Deadly Cry. ($5.99 pb, 0-553-57718-2, Bantam, Crown.
,
September.) In September Elizabeth George herself
brings out her first novel in a couple of years, In
pursuit of the Proper Sinner, featuring Inspector
Thomas Lynley and Sergeant Barbara Havers. ($25.95
cl, 0-553-10235-4, Bantam.)
Old hand Linda Barnes brings back Boston cab
driver and private eye Carlotta Carlyle in Flashpoint,
about burglary, arson, and real estate development.
($22.95 cl, 0-7868-6317-X, September, Hyperion.) Notable summer mass markets include Blind
Hyperion is reissuing the first Carlotta Carlyle mys- Bloodhound Justice by Virginia Lanier, third in a
tery, A Trouble of Fools, about drug running, gun series about tracker/trainer Jo Beth Siddons and her
running, and Irish politics, which, as I recall, was intrepid bloodhounds. ($6.50, 0-06-109971-6,
excellent. ($4.50 pb, 0-7868-8953-5, October.) HarperCollins.) On a completely different doggy
Judging from the sales in our store, Sarah note, Alaskan dogsled racer Jessie Arnold is back in
Andrews is poised to break through with her series Deadfall by Sue Henry, and she’s up against a
about geologist Em Hanson. Andrews’ new paper- stalker on an isolated island. Customers say that
back is Only Flesh and Bones, in which Em is Henry gives good Alaska. ($6.50, 0-380-79891-3,
helping young Cecilia Mencken recover her memory Avon.) Moon Music by Faye Kellerman departs
after her mother’s murder. ($5.99 pb, 0-312-96702-0, from her orthodox Jewish series, introducing instead
August, St. Martin’s.) In Andrews’ new hardcover, Romulus Poe, a Las Vegas cop investigating a
Bone Hunter, Em attends a paleontology conference 25-year-old murder. ($7.50, 0-380-72626-2, Avon.)
where a colleague is found dead, stabbed with a Back in early 20th-century San Francisco, outspoken,
independent Fremont Jones investigates murder at a
dinosaur bone. ($23.95 cl, 0-312-20381-0, September,
St. Martin’s.) seance in Emperor Norton’s Ghost by Dianne Day.
Linda Fairstein, the assistant district attorney in Day incorporates supernatural elements as well as
charge of sex crimes in Manhattan, writes with an feminism in these historical mysteries, making fora
insider's expertise about a New York City D.A. ina strange but popular brew. ($5.99, 0-553-58078-7,
series that’s a favorite in our store. Fairstein’s latest, Bantam.) Day’s new hardcover, Death Train to
Cold Hit, will be out in September from Scribner. Her Boston, will be out in September from Doubleday.
previous paperbacks are Final Jeopardy and Likely to ($21.95, 0-385-48609-X.)
Die. $25 cl, 0-684-84846-5. Later in the Fall St. Martin’s will have a couple of
Sujata Massey’s sleuth, Rei Shimura, is a Japa- interesting hard/soft combinations from women
nese American antique dealer living in Tokyo; unknown to me. Zen and the Art of Murder by
Massey does a nice job of contrasting traditional Elizabeth M. Cosin introduces Los Angeles private
Japanese culture with Rei’s independent American eye Zen Moses, survivor of lung cancer and numer-
Values. In The Flower Master, Rei takes a course in ous hangovers. ($5.99 pb, 0-312-97948-1, October.)
flower arranging only to have her teacher murdered This is followed by Zen and the City of Angels, in
during the first lesson. $24 cl, 0-06-019228-3, which Zen stumbles upon a body while searching for
HarperCollins. a missing dog. ($23.95 cl, 0-312-20611-9, October.)
The latest comic outing for early 20th-century Meanwhile, Nancy Bartholomew introduces the first
See Mysteries, page 122.
Egyptologist and feisty feminist Amelia Peabody is
July/August 1999
VOolluam)e2
2 Number 2 25RT BOOKs
By Tee A. Corinne two Northern white women Photographing am
mostly African American subjects, Rosenb| a,
Feminism and Documentary edited by Diane essay is especially useful in Positioning the ‘nat
Waldman and Janet Walker is an extremely readable in an historical framework. $19.95 pb, 0.295.97767,
collection of essays that are more interesting than Cooley Gallery, distributed by University of
some their titles indicate. Of special note is the chap- Washington Press.
ter on Michelle Parkerson in which Gloria J. Gibson Devouring Frida: The Art History and Popular
discusses Storme: The Lady of the Jewel Box, The Life and Celebrity of Frida Kahlo by MargaretA . Lindaueris
Work of Audre Lorde, and Gotta Make This Journey: Sweet a complex examination of the myths and discussions
Honey in the Rock. $19.95 pb, 0-8166-3007-0; $49.95 cl, which have developed since the 1970s around Kahlo
-3006-2, University of Minnesota Press. (1907-1954), the intriguing Mexican painter. $19,95
Documenting a Myth: The South as Seen by pb, 0-8195-6348-X; $45 cl, -6347-1, Wesleyan Univer-
Three Women Photographers, Chansonetta Stanley sity Press, distributed by the University Press of
Emmons, Doris Ulman, Bayard Wootten, 1910-1940 New England.
by Naomi Rosenblum and Susan Fillin-Yeh presents The Family of Women: Voices Across the
the humanist-inspired imagery of one Southern and
Generations by Carolyn Jones is a feel-good gift book
that’s lovely for the quality of photo-
graphs, the sympathetic editing of
individual stories, and the wide variety of
women _ represented. $24.95. cl,
0-7892-0338-3, Abbeville. :
Bachelors by Rosalind Krauss is a
serious to be called quirky, yet bei
so many elements of surprise and oc
that hardly another word fits. A es
sion of the work of several Cs
artists including lesbian photog ad
Claude Cahun. According schol
Nochlin, “...it provides fens 599.954!
ship with new angles of vision:
0-262-11239-6, MIT Press.
Georgia O'Keeffe: The ner?
Things by Elizabeth Hutton 4
Aud re Lorde ang her daughter luscious book with some ° e , Ive
(Universit in Fem inism and D
y of Ocumenta sensual /sexual O'Keeffe map e 28.
July/August 1999 Minnesota Press) y ag
See ao at?
26 Volw
oiFeminist Bookstore News
CIENCE
FICTION
=&
FANTASY
2
apron’
By Heather Whipple/Swarthmore College Library, living out her life in the stiffling, formal, and socially
pA, and Laura Quilter/The Exploratorium, CA regulated manner expected of her gender and class.
However, obscure lessons from her dead mother and
A couple of books previously mentioned in this her own questions about why she must do what is
column have received Hugo nominations: in the cate- expected of her lead her to discover the terrible secret
gory of best novel, Mary Doria Russell’s Children of at the core of Haven culture. $24 cl, 0-380-97480-0.
God (Villard) and Connie Willis’s To Say Nothing of
the Dog (Bantam Spectra); in the category of best
novelette, Ellen Klages’ 1999 Lammy-winning story
“Time Gypsy” from Bending the Landscape: Science
Fiction edited by Nicola Griffith and Steven Pagel Bantam
(Overlook). Panagaea Book 1: Imperium Without End by
Lisa Mason (Summer of Love, The Golden Nineties) takes
Femspec is a new interdisciplinary feminist place in a society where a benevolent tyranny con-
journal dedicated to critical and creative works in trols, through its dreams, the people of Panagaea.
the realms of SF, fantasy, magical realism, and other When the Imperium works, its pure visions repress
supernatural genres. Subscription rates are $30 for a violence, passion, and eroticism among the people,
charter subscription, $20 for a low-income subscrip- creating a stable and calm caste society. But when one
tion. For more information or to subscribe, write to of the dreamers is murdered, new revolutionary
Femspec, Department of English, Cleveland State dreams of violence, sex, and freedom begin to shake
University, Cleveland, OH 44115; email: <femspec things up. The new dreams are apparently related to
@popmail.csuohio.edu>. mysterious earthquakes threatening the planet, and
members of different castes must learn to work
Ace together to search for answers. The concluding
The third novel in Sharon Shinn’s Samaria tril- volume will be published in October. $6.50 pb,
ogy is now in paperback. The Alleluia Files follows 0-553-57571-6.
Archangel and Jovah’s Angel to resolve the conflict Bantam has reprinted Tanith Lee’s 1981 novel
between Jovah, the angels, and the people of Samaria. The Silver Metal Lover. Girl meets Robot. Girl loves
Required reading for fans of the first two books. $6.99, Robot. Girl realizes Robot is much more thana Robot.
0-441-00620-5. Lee’s science fiction romance is a coming-of-age story
about Jane, a privileged teen who leaves home after
Avon Eos meeting Silver, the (artificial) man of her dreams. It
The ever-popular Sheri S. Tepper continues to soon becomes clear, however, that Silver is more than
Wrestle with eco-feminism and societal control over mere machine, and his existence may be a deadly
Women in her latest book, Singer from the Sea. On threat to humanity. The novel was also optioned for
the planet Haven, a young noblewoman is faced with film. $5.99 pb, 0-553-58127-9.
ee July/August 1999
Volume 22 Number 2 27News
Feminist Bookstore very popular series, the fantasy storie
ell Unive r os nit fy ctP ibr one e s s science fiction b ar na dt e cofe mm ea le w ta hr er io ar ids oa fn d thw osi ez ar id ns si eh, faf cr ee Pce el re i.
Buckn i ti t les about t o ]
Fantasies
consider 0-88677-843-3. * $6.99 pp
. f Silvina
Klingen : HarperCollins/HarperPrism
Nisbet
nt
F s hp ae e so cu l ba et ei nt vei eav e i i tfv rio c0 af t nio sw nc l,au a srf t r a eO ae l dc n t t ga hr m oe up ia g nE to th u’ o rs L o a v- t e E is - r nnh A ya go m r lt e ilw r i sa ti htt lc .e e a rn of $ w 4Hh 2f o .ae m ni v eni e ss t ; bB V gil oela dtlc swak egI n ee c n oL mia tg eaw wh kta oe, r or s ul d td- a sa w toi H t can u porln ln ml ai e yon . w f g oe r c $e 2rn 5ua t mhu e b ct l p l ,h a io wr 0nr t e -g y i 0 r 6d -E di 1 l n 0i o z 5w w 2i h n 6e 6s n - a 3n .d m H aean el d o’ ld
0-8387-5389-2. What if the Native Americans of the Weste
plains had united to conquer the encroaching ca
War-weakened Euro-Americans? Pamela Sargent
provides a well-researched and plausible alternate
history in Climb the Wind. $25 cl, 0-06-105029-6,
Circlet
Your press for one-stop erotic speculative fiction
Roc
shopping, Circlet has three new anthologies edited by
Cecilia Tan as well as a serial novel written by her. The short stories collected in Not of Woman
Born edited by Constance Ash explore the possibili-
Fetish Fantastic edited by Tan includes eleven stories
of S/M bondage and other power-exchange fetishes. ties, positive and negative, of alternative
$14.95 tp, 1-885865-13-9. reproduction technologies. Authors include Kara
The title of forthcoming Sexcrime: Subversive Dalkey, Debra Doyle, Nina Kiriki Hoffman, Patricia
Erotica edited by Tan is taken from George Orwell's McKillip, and Robert Silverberg. $6.99 pb,
1984. $15.95 tp, 1-885865-26-0, October. 0-451-45681-5. 2)
Originally published in 1995, the new edition of
S/M Futures: Millennium Edition edited by Tan
includes a new story by Tan and an introduction by Art Books, continued from page 26.
S/Mauthor Laura Antoniou. $14.95 tp, 1-885865-29-5. ever seen. The text, too, is fascinating. $35 cl,
The Velderet: A Cybersex S/M Serial by Cecilia 0-300-07935-4, Yale University Press.
Tan. From the cover blurb: “Bellonia is a peaceful
The revised edition of I Dream 4 World:
utopia of a world where ‘inequality’ is taboo. But Portraits of Black Women Who Changed America
that leaves our heroes, Merin and Kobi, unfulfilled
by Brian Lanker witha foreword by Maya Angelou’s
For these two roommates share a secret obsession: an exceptionally beautiful and moving boo”,
the playing of master /slave sex games. Their sexual-
ity becomes the key to their world’s survival A wn og me el no u whowr si et es i, ag“ eB sr i san owL a un sk e tr h. e. . hh ia gs cod i as
m h h st n iL
t eh aou eg h, Oriw gh ie nn a llyc on pq ubu le ir so hr es d f asr o a m sea rn iao lt he inr Taa sts e of a 1-n 5d 5 670t -h 8e 88-r 2i ,c h Ster we arw ta ,r d T aboo rf i &t hr Ci hv ai nn gg :: $ the
before ma tg hea \ zi mn ae g, a, z iT nh ee fV oe ll d d ee dr . et F i ran for six issues One of my favorite books is baa Be Nile
happens in the end!” $14.95 tp 1e-8e85e86 5-27n -o 9w . what Lives of Lee Miller by Anthony Pee hion
(1907-1977) — possibly a molested child, uals
Daw model, mistress of Man Ray, photogt apher, J° an att
Z s Wt ai r tm o enm rgS e , sw ,r 7o r h aed B nrr doa id c& l e oy w r,S o oo tr mc hc eoe n r t ne a s i bs n y as X D2 eV 5I i , t eO Per ae idi s xe g sd i on na ,l: by s t loM ir sa i ar e bsi o tn o hf w i h nsi e ut.f r e H ype o( r rt tw or i p ac hihe et) o rs, t o lsm g iu fo r ert ,a p h p r se ih or ss i n e— go t. f ih W T na o h gd r e lda t tn e x at tWa am gr ta i vz oei sI sn L a g r @ we aa esh e mor fa t 7e 5a wc t o 9i h -tn e t
D E e i t t m h h h e
0 2
probably didn’t experience. $24.95 pb, ne 0
July/August 1999 Thames and Hudson, distributed by Now ber >
32 N
28 VolumeFeminist Bookstore News
Magazines
Deanne unwittingly undermines the trust that is the
I was so sad I missed the 20th-anniversary issue
foundation of their relationship. $11.95 pb,
of Kalliope, the feminist literary journal from Jackson- 1-56280-247-X, September.
ville, Florida, when it came out last fall. This Claire McNab’s Set Up is another sensational
expanded issue includes past and present editorial installment in this riveting lesbian mystery series!
collective members as well as many famous types like While tracking down a ruthless hired killer, Aus-
Margaret Atwood, Ruthann Robson, Marge Piercy, tralian top cop Carol Ashton is tempted by the
Denise Levertov, Maxine Kumin, and Joy Harjo. A seductive charms of a mysterious stranger, a woman
journal collecting poetry, fiction, essays, art, and whose shadowy secrets could be leading Carol to the
reviews by women, Kalliope remains a treasure. dark side of desire. Previous installments of this
Remind your customers of it with this special issue. award-winning mystery series include: Past Due,
$7. Kalliope, Florida Community College at Jackson-
ville, 3939 Roosevelt Blvd., Jacksonville FL 32205;
904-381-3511. For the 20th anniversary issue, order
direct from Kalliope. The spring issue is available
from Ingram Periodicals, Koen, Ubiquity, Small
Changes, and Armadillo. —TMR
Naiad Press
The Dawning is the latest from Laura Adams
(nom de plume of well-known lesbian romance
writer Karin Kallmaker), whose compelling sci-fi
work includes the critically acclaimed Christabel and
Night Vision. Thirteen years after a terrible accident
that killed seven people and shattered the lives of
thousands more, guilt-stricken Amanda Martin
receives the power to change the past — but doing so
could destroy her future. $11.95 pb, 1-56280-246-1,
September.
Bestselling romance author Marianne Martin
(Dawn of the Dance, Legacy of Love, and Love in the
Balance) continues the saga of Sage Bristo in the emo-
tion-filled Never Ending. Although strangers might
be fooled by Sage Bristo’s air of extreme confidence,
her lover Deanne suspects that Sage’s emotional
wounds are hidden rather than healed. But in trying Collage by Aii mee Young Jackson ii n Ka lliope
to find out more about Sage’s pain-filled past, (Florida oni iufily College at Jacksonville)
> July/August 1999
Volume 22 Number 2 29S
New
Bookstore Until the End. $11.95 pb, 1-56280-9
Feminist
O25
Naiad Press, PO Box 10543, Tallanee
800-533-1973. Available from the Publisher (2M
LPC, Ingram, etc. a and Bp
Mad Press
es:
proudly announc Odd Girls Press
OGN Publications
Monologues and Scenes for Lesh
ian Actors by
With Love and Apologies Carolyn Gage. Finally, a book for Jes
T Io BNN ew -9J 6e 3rs 4e 8y 2; ati nr de d wo of k“ sp ha os ps si !ng ” Hea rt au ad it li ao stn ,s fra ond j Di aa cn ts Wh Co assa er se
$14.95
S 0 7 -4-2 r e t m _ in g l
y work!” TYO n Pe ayo wf it gh he tsM ,o st
remembrance, a lovel talented and inventive contempora
“A bouquet of l r i s
a book of more than twenty monologues and ame
than forty scenes by, for, and about lesbians. Here are
Other People, Other Lands
dramatic portrayals of our coming-out Stories, our
0-9634827-5-0 $ 8.95
ISBN strategies of resistance, our rescue of survivors a
“Poems full of fresh discovery!’ sexual abuse, our passions, our torture, our triumphs,
The settings are historic and contemporary, ranging
from the goddess temples of Lesbos to the locker
To order, call 800-622-5043 rooms of a softball team. $11 pb, 1-887237-10-0,
Or write to POB 299 Pelt by Daphne Gottlieb. Using the language of
the everyday to express the extraordinary, poet
Saxtons River, VT 05154
Daphne Gottlieb searches for the truths of human
experience and finds them in relationships, child-
hood, and a woman on fire. Pelt is a document of
survival in a slaughterhouse culture. From preying to
Chain Letter, Double Bluff, and Inner Circle. $11.95 pb, praying, to the loss of innocence and the innocence of
1-56280-255-0, October. loss, to the most cruel and unusual stuff of all —love
Intimate Stranger is a surefire bestseller from — these poems represent a pee voice in con-
popular romance writer Laura DeHart Young (Private temporary poetry. $9 pb, 1-887237-09-/. .
Passions, Love on the Line, Family Secrets, and There Will ‘Odd oul Pres 20 Box 2157, Anaheim —
Be No Goodbyes). While covering a gruesome murder, 800-821-0632, email <publisher@oddgirlspress.©
hC eh ri sc ea lg fo sT tr ri ob nu gn le y cr ai ttm re a cp teh do to tog r ta hp e he vr i ctC io ml ’e s E nv ia ecn es , f Ti rn ad ys Also avail- able from BP, Koen, and eye: are.G illon
aRo eb e orts. eAlt houg Hh gC o bl ee ha fs iey net to nr te es ro il ov e dh ee sr gf ne ee rl in Jg as SBVIES
i s t r d , i r i n
,
y begin a heated flirtation that
quickly ignites into blazin
1-56280-249-6 October.” 0 $11.95 pb,
ig re-releasité
From the Djuna Books series, Seal - anor of the
Paula Martinac’s novel Out of Time, ine steals :
Lambda Literary Award. Susan ie. attan'$
1920s scrapbook from an antique ae four wore
West Side, inextricably linking her 1 theme
photographed there, a group who oe past js coll
“The Gang.” Susan begins to feel i ing aurea
ing with the present, and that she15 ! > of time .
the women in the scrapbook. Evocallv «] about lo i
and character, Out of Time is 4 ie 12 : a
history, and the persistence of pass Numb
volume 2B
30Feminist Bookstore
News
1-58005-020-4. Seal Press, 3131 Western Ave. #410, Salmonberries: Collectors’ Edition. k.d. lan
Seattle WA 98121; 206-283-7844, fax 206-285-9410, email portrays Kotz, an Alaskan orphan and misfit, with a
<sealprss@scn.org>. Distributed by PGW. —TMR
troubled mix of innocence and desire. She pursues the
town librarian, Roswitha (Rosel Zech), an embittered
Whiteaker Press German expatriate. Initially rebuffing Kotz, Roswitha
Now Breathe: A Very Personal Journey soon learns that they are more alike than different.
Through Breast Cancer by Claudia Sternbach is an While the younger searches for a past, the older runs
extremely well-written and accessible account of one from one. Through their deepening involvement,
woman’s life with breast cancer. I’m starting to feel Kotz and Roswitha find in their yesterdays the power
that there’s a whole lot of material out there on to live today. Music video added to this collector’s
women’s experiences with cancer, so a book that is edition. $19.95, 98 minutes.
this engrossing is certainly something to stock, some- Gods and Monsters. Academy Award nominee
thing to handsell, and to feel good about. Sternbach is and openly gay British actor Sir Ian McKellen bril-
at turns poignant, smart, and funny. The section from liantly recreates the last days of Hollywood’s only
which the title is taken is achingly beautiful. Anne openly gay director of 1930s horror films, James
Lamott said of the book, “Claudia Sternbach spills her Whale. Long after directing Frankenstein, Whale
life out on these pages and does it with grace and retired into seclusion in an attempt to escape his past.
humor. It is her story of living with a cancer diagnosis Gods and Monsters explores his fascination with a
and she tells it beautifully.” $13.95 pb, 0-9653800-4-1. young gardener (Brendan Fraser). Lynn Redgrave,
Whiteaker Press, 204 First Ave. South, Seattle WA another Academy Award Nominee, delivers an out-
98104; 800-489-9095, email <cmaurol1@aol.com>. standing costarring performance in this multilayered
Distributed by Words. —TMR fictional exploration of Whale’s life and work. Highly
recommended. $104.95, 104 minutes.
Baseball Girls. From the 19th-century Bloomer
Girls to the present-day Colorado Silver Bullets, from
seven-year-olds to grandmas, from the forgotten
New releases from the Wolfe Pack: scorecards of Black women players to the struggles of
__ Companions. These seven short films glimpse female umps, Baseball Girls documents the past and
Into the funny, edgy, and oftentimes seductive present and looks to the future. Perfect companion to
€ncounters between women and their companions. We Got Next (WNBA highlights) and 1998 Olympic
Includes shorts on: anticipation — Breakfast with Gus Hockey Highlights. $19.95, 82 minutes.
by Siobhan Devine (8 minutes), searching — Traveling Slaves to the Underground. Shelly is torn
Companion by Paula Goldberg (20 minutes), petty between her feelings for her boyfriend and the excit-
theft — Peppermills by Isabel Hegner and Karen ing emotions she feels for the rebellious Suzy. Set
Jaroneski (14 minutes), flirting — The Dinner Party by amidst the raucous club scene, raging hormones give
Lisa Cholodenko (High Art) (9 minutes), revenge — way to adulthood in this funny, sexy, involving
My Pretty Little Girlfriend by Jennifer Gentile (7 min- drama. $59.95, 92 minutes.
pa waiting and waiting — Between 7 and 1 by Price reductions: Love and Death on Long
C Cih rr li s Tt ai ln ka byP et Jur do ip to hu l Co os bb( 17 ( 5 m mi in nu ut te es s) ), . a Hn id g hlf ya nt ra esy c om— - Island D, V Dt o a$ v1 a9 i. l9 a5 b. i lity: Billy’s Hollywood Screen Kiss
mended. $39.95, 80 minutes. ($29.95), Bound ($29.95), Claire of the Moon ($29.95),
July/August 1999
Vo
Olume 22 Number 2News
‘nist Bookstore
_ irst Wi yes Club ($29.95), Fried Mertus with Nancy Flowers 4.2 a
published by UNIFEM and the Center lik Dut
pntre Nows (62972 S9 u5) t, GI (J $2a 9.n 9e ( L9 i2 v9 i.9 n5 g) , H Oue m Or
5) , t Global Leadership, puts into definitive ,. Mens 7
($29.95), ue iene il (N $e 2 9.95),4 MoM ri ed ni Tg ah let s 1 en t =th e bm oe oa kn ,i n ag c coof r di“ nh gu m ta on Chr ai rg lh ots t teof Bw uo nn ce he vy e ter
tpf“ voee enrlx p tr oie ors es he ors shb o ’t nsh chw o nm die n g’ sbls od ue ht ue pur amm ssi sn a trt ei o Nnn dt f TUT e W oeo gxr .g
9SO 5n 01 2;Wt( 9 l9 49 0,5 e9 8D 5) -) , Vt/ iPM dru 6esir 7oi s si 8,cce i il l ,(l $’ Pa 2s , xW Q e Bu od e 0xd e ai -n 2n 64g 8o -Wff 9it( l$ t 4e2 h d9 9e w. 9 R5 D e) e, —s le WsO mr t ap p fao e( $s a2 et 9’ . 9 V5 id)© e,| u l a b i to nt t pi h ag a t tnt da u es ec ao dn ee a n nh o aa of lv i to ocf s eh a a n ce i ht ,t i y o eq eN i .a 9 rr ao ns t .
Ae d
a 4i & a -t O9 . a9 5 ) 4, n d ol rg t g a i n i st r n a t o rl ’a oc hmt aa n e ne i : t a
6 , N
o f 2 6 8 2 f 8 4 . o l o i o n f h w m e a , i s n r i g h t s d e e c
works that explore and expound upon the a More
W tho me HLn o uc, ma l nI An ck t Ri io gn h, Gl oo fb al omCh ea nn ge: Lea Gir rn li sn g byA b Jo uu lit ci tn hag a. n” A .n $a 2on 5va .el 9ry s is it rh aa lt obr bee ove uaa nnl dds w po 0rm 9e 1on 2s’ 9es -d 1-te rh
e a t s W a nd e s t u g s e al l 5 t sh pe g l , -o p 1s 7 0s 6 Una i k a
Nations Development Fund for Women, 304 5. 45th
St. 15th floor, NY NY 10017; 212-906-6400, fay
Be ope ae
212-906-6705, email <unifem@undp.org>. Distrib-
Weide, Ya ¥
7 rw The first Sarah Aldridge novel uted by Women Ink, 777 United Nations Plaza, NY
M ‘ was published more than 20 years NY 10017; 212-687-8633, fax 212-661-2704, email
ago. Since then it has been
<wink@womenink.org>. —TMR
followed by 12 more:
NINA IN THE WILDERNESS (HD)..... 1997........... $18.00 Women’s Press — U.K.
NINA IN THE WILDERNESS ............. 1997 ocean $11.95 : Encounters with Strangerg: Femina
ADA NTE sae ches 1995 o e.n ann ee n $10.95 fe ee mir e hl ignoe re a ae M maro
n ism as e d nd gi nalized disabled
MICHAERLA (ooo oe 1994.0... $10.95 women and how the disabled people’s movement has
A FLIGHT OF ANGELS ............. 1992 ons $9.95 marginalized women. Writers and activists explar
KEEP TO ME STRANGER... 1989 ons $9.95 the ways that feminism must acknowledge oe
MMM IA aSG BFD EOA R eL T E UN N AA E' U S G6 . 6 F5 RIs Ea cs NS aDé . ne .c . io m cas ka cctscc acs eee 119 987 8. 5 g .e .e . $$ 89 .. 99 55 wb e ome y ee n ’2 s se ea xte pe ee g ri ie esp nce eO snn e toe traS e ne sf oe rmo e a ndi S r, e vv itp ao lt iza eb l ee r
HS ey oes tthee h iope ee $7.95 inism. $17.95 pb, 0-7043-4400-9. «og from the
ALLTRUE LOVPL EA RCE S .c .s . , 11 99 7 82.0... $7. | 95 LiteraB rr yo ug Wh ot r ldt o wB io to hk : MaM ru yr de Wr ino gu ss , 9 Ba0 r/ ba4 r a Wi Pl as no tn y,
CYTHEREA'S BREATH, Bic $8.95 Stella Duffy and Many More edited te
TaOeU TeE a eMou thy Sc ete n Eo Ns S 17 96 5H .a .n .s $ $6 6. .9 95 S abu om um te r hei s a cc ao rl yl ,e cti tho en o sf cast no dr ai les usfr ,o m my ei 6l
7 5 t s o i e y
ame a ae 1974 se, $6.95 pablighing werd, The aun Ts ch publishint
On their editors, set murders at ie and wnite
Welcomed these porn he many readers who have events as award dinners, conference, my va"
&toups. Looks like great fun, though pe i’shard
tage point on the “publishing” side of : ut sleep
to imagine a conference inspiring anything
ness. $13.95 pb, 0-7043-4578-1. n Sty
: 34 Great ai
fFeminist Bookstore News
SS
FROM THE SMALL
PRESSES
By Teri Mae Rutledge of spray paint to make the walls glow like that, my
trigger finger cramped and sticky and I blew my nose
Correction: In the last issue, I reviewed a very gold for a week. Climb out of bed and yank down the
smart book by Dee Rosenfeld on handling on-the-job black flannel curtains so the day could begin. Make
troubles of support workers. Her analysis is dead-on; some food in the little yellow kitchen, tea with honey,
it should be required reading for secretaries, adminis- avocado on pita, bring it all into the backyard and eat
trative assistants, office managers, clerks, et al. If any naked ona towel in the sun.... The backyard was mar-
of you have tried to order it, you probably had trouble velous. Small but fenced so you could get naked
because I got the title of the book wrong. The real title though I kept my panties on because I was afraid of
is: The Office Worker's Game of Up from Under by that Arizona sun on my pussy.” Tea’s voice is aston-
Dee Rosenfeld. My apologies! $8.95 pb, 0-9669335-08. ishingly new, strong, and engaging. She’s a writer to
MDR Press, 45 Lottie Bennet Ln. #5, San Francisco CA watch. (In particular, keep an eye out for her debut
94115; 415-346-9534. Also available from Ingram. novel, due from Seal in Spring 2000.) $8 pb,
1-57027-074-0. Semiotext(e), 522 Philosophy Hall,
The very talented Michelle Tea of San Francisco’s Columbia University, NY NY 10027; 718-963-2603,
spoken word group, Sister Spit (if you ever have a email <semiotexte@aol.com>. Available from BP.
chance to hear her read, do — Sister Spit often tours
the country), has written a memoir of roughly five Another compelling debut is out from a young
years, from high school to young adulthood: The San Francisco author: Marci Blackman’s Po Man‘s
Passionate Mistakes and Intricate
Corruption of One Girl in America. Mary
Gaitskill said of her, “Dirty-sweet, pop
and poetic, Michelle Tea is like a twisted
Spice Girl who can actually sing — and |
write.” Flipping through, I’m struck by ,
Tea’s incredible memory, her attention to
and the poignancy of detail, and the
strange places she’s been. Whether talking | _
about prostitution, her girlfriends, or her |
goth days in high school, her clip is fast,
edgy, compulsively alert. From the book:
This was my life in Tucson. Early Tucson,
before I was whoring, when I wasn’t even
working at all. What bliss. It seemed natu-
tal, Tucson so slow and lazy. Did anyone
Work? Not me. I was up with the sun in the
toxic gold of my bedroom. It took 12 cans llustration by Diane Palmisciano, in Last Licks (DK Publishing)
eee July/August 1999
Volume 22 Number 2~~
= kstore New S
Feminist Boo “Marci Blackman 1: s ever check to see if he was ready? Holg:
ToC hnh iei s l d o. f n o‘ vH e; e lie ps el t ve us e r rals y a oi nt. d ‘sa e a lo ef o wn u ot th ms e a r — r: : I ’ ’v se wc i Z ta sts or i yn a a af bl oon ug i t a ctii k gm ie r . l bgc e ea t ad ue tn o ifc ffe u lo nof f acm it e,y U ofw n o c plr aed i s n, Ge aI l o oc r nl g eo e ,s ? e byM tY N fe o ry oe ms l on t hen e
waP n ae d yr ve t ir te s it dey e, me oa nen sdd ty raf o to f er c ste h. e a I At m e' es ra t i oW t c a lla ayn enfa e rm wi a l ty a , e noa vn ed l a ea cl iao inn ng o e net sh e nys ou or vue e? l o Ef a v be oi rt u?s t c G fh e ae t me ik l o yf ,f r ?u ” hb ib si U tn ol rtg yi ,m aa tg mea eli y mn ,s o t r thiso u an s 0
phe handsr obGinig?, anna eet ; as she tracks : the famil ny e age. Again, this is an incredibly Original
ee a life of her lesbian protagonist, Po. ee Blackman’s writing is stark and honest engy a
the book “Scalpel in one hand, bracing oe ae i make me suck in my breath. $12.95 pb, 0-916357 99
ther, 7 Mary’s: eyes catc h mine to see if I'm reaay. Manic D Press, PO Box 410804, San Francisco C A
eee from me and the game stops. Did Sar 94141. Distributed by PGW.
George have a safe word? What was running throug
his head as the whip came down? Stories? Songs of In Slut! Growing Up Female with a Bad Reputa.
freedom? Anticipation of the end? Did the overseer tion, Leora Tanenbaum gives us the stories of youn
women who have stood up to name-calling,
Tanenbaum published an article in Seventeen about
A Detail in that Story having a reputation asa slut growing up. It “causeda
sensation” among Seventeen readers, and prompted
poems by Sondra Zeidenstein her to write Slut! Here, she presents stories of over-
coming sexual labelling from a diverse pool of girls
and women, she tells her own story, and she provides
A Detail in that Story by Sondra Zeidenstein is an analysis of the underlying problem of sexual
quite simply one of the best and most honest stereotyping. This book is blurbed by Susan Faludi
books I’ve read this year. Sapphire and Elizabeth Wurtzel and includes an appendix out-
She examines a long-term marriage from every lining courses of action that girls can take to stop or
tn bawp hn oi oo ef d ts o ye hs k ii nb aa h l g an te ; dd p h a atsa sp tsn h ha i eg er m ol te ann r g ae n uetr y t- , e m s , e t moh wofa lt Sod b ua e e m er ro P ef sa n Es o la s e n lvi e ed w. eo na orn u ya ug tSt Tlh h he d ht e i e onr gy m, f . bo l e u sin no T ogf c Wh nh rie s ia s w t iol nio m sf g v ra i ton n hmg e i f O<Sp rtr w aoe wr nv wi ge e - I e n s . ,t h s aeP d ir vh e mea s a pnr s o, sa s ts l ss o o i1m vr4 bee 0 i ll n e eyt s W. .a c ttt oiot $ ms m2 e i >3 g.. nS9 opt5 . ra, e D g ,i iNc sl n, Y t g nr i e1 b- wN tu8 Y h8 t 8 re a3 od b6 1 u e03 g 0- b h19 y 34 b;- P a0 eG. W W e e:bs e Av i ns ge i nhn t t e
p
She’s Gonna Be: Stories, Poems, Life ae from
Decter. This book pulsates with great W a Dectet S
$12.95 plus young women from the Toronto area. ae desire:
$2.00 shipping introduction: “Women write anger, Y ere nd flying
'-887344-05-5 Women write trueness, words truly aimed - of the
available to the heart. Those clear, enchanting "°
from
oSm ra ll al hl icP CoPr or re res yss s BD li usP eit c.r..i rb eu st si on
C y P r ie nm tee rn inf: [E
a
795 East
Street
North cote /
Goshen
CT 06
756
(860)
4
II-2274
fax (860) WW:
491-8619
your young women customers an¢ 4 riting: e
hunger for fresh, vibrant, pas sionate W Box 16025
P
Pb, 0-9698064-6-9. McGilligan Books,
34Feminist
Bookstore
News
495 19 6 -D 53u 8n -d 0a 9s 4 5,S t. fW axe st 4, 1 6T -o 5r 3o 8n -t 0o 5 47O ,N eM m6 a] i l 1W <0O m, c gC ia ln ba kd sa @; Carrol and Graf p 19W . : 21st St. . Ste. Ste. 601 601, NY NY 10010:
212-627-8590. Distributed by PGW.
H
idirect.com>. Available from University of Toronto
Press, 888-550-8055; in Canada, 800-565-9523.
Academy of Chicago publishers has rediscoy-
ered a novel written during and about the late
“Condé’s story is rich and colorful and glorious. It Victorian period. A Writer of Books by George
sprawls over continents and centuries to find its way Paston (Emily Morse Lymonds) has been long out of
into the reader’s heart.” —Maya Angelou. Windward
print; in the U.S. only two copies of the Brit-
Heights is Caribbean author Maryse Condé’s retelling ish-published book are available. Protagonist Cosima
of Emily Bronte’s Wuthering Heights, transposed to the
Chudleigh is a sheltered, bookish, middle-class
island of Guadeloupe. Here the “African,” Rayze, 22-year-old who comes to London to begin her career
named for the heath-covered cliffs on which he was as a novelist. She decides to study life and acquire
discovered (having been abandoned as an infant), falls experience. However, she really isn’t versed in the
for the mulatto daughter of the man who takes him in. ways of society, and convention collides with her
Rayze journeys to Cuba to make his fortune, only to determination to socialize to create “trauma after
find later that Cathy has married the weak scion of a trauma.” Among the colorful characters she encoun-
socially prominent Creole family. Rayze’s rage turns to ters are Bess Heywood, a lesbian actress who carries a
a vengeance that remains unappeased for a generation. vendetta against all the men who have wronged her
Condé’s retelling of this tale in Guadeloupe preserves
friends, and Quentin Mallory, a historian who
all the emotional pull of the original, but the story encourages women to break out of suffocating con-
grows from new soil to illuminate post-emancipation finement. I’m so glad that this important book is
Caribbean society. I’m tempted to recall Wide Sargasso available on the 100th anniversary of its first publica-
Sea, which of course switches character focus to com- tion. $15 pb, 0-89733-465-5; $35 cl, -466-3.
pletely redefine Jane Eyre. Here I’m sure the setting Appalachian Mountain Girl: Coming of Age in
change will be every bit as interesting and illuminat- Mine Country by Rhoda Bailey Warren is a memoir
ing. $23 cl, 1-56947-161-4. Soho Press, 853 Broadway, of Warren’s experience growing up in mining coun-
NY NY 10003. Distributed by FSG. try. She shows the strength of those in Appalachia,
fed by the religion and family values that sustained
the community. As a teenager, she begins to glimpse
another world through reading True Confessions and
perusing the Montgomery Ward Catalog. When she
__ Carroland Graf hasjust released an anthology of marries and leaves home for New York state, her
literary lesbian short fiction: The Mammoth Book of memories haunt her. She returns, now a “New
Lesbian Short Stories edited by Emma Donoghue. Yorker,” and finds that the town she left is no longer
; ee 600+ page anthology showcases some of the best the place of her memories. $22.50 cl, 0-89733-464-7. ;
: tan writers around. Most of the stories have never Academy of Chicago Publishers, 363 West Erie
efore been published. Includes work from Dorothy St., Chicago IL 60610; 312-751-7300. Available from
son, Patricia Dunker, Tanith Lee, Jennifer Levin, the publisher and from B&T, the distributors, Koen,
Anna Livia, Ingrid MacDonald, Sara Maitland, Shani New Leaf, and Ingram.
Mootoo, Elizabeth Taylor, and Shay Youngblood. The
cular are from the U.S., Canada, the U.K., Aus- Last fall, Arte Publico Press published a novel
‘alia, and New Zealand. $10.95 pb, 0-7867-0627-9. I’m sad I missed: Women Don’t Need to Write by
Volume 27 Number 2 July/August 1999
35Bookstore News
Feminist
el opens in Cuba just envisions Egypt “cleansed”
Raquel Puigig Z a tl ad ki efv ova varr e. r . The R osn ao v Gerac h’s grandson is iE nW f: i dels. This book explores he o rf oadan al thf ino er e; '8nerg ang
after Castro's ty police because of the counterrevolu- ee 2 ta ie oom a charismatic lea = life |
takenby se her son and daughter-in-law. rorist as it shows ona being drawn into hig Oa ter. |
tionary activitie 5 the narrative back to Spain, As the blurb says, “From the shad Crusade.
Zaldivar then move husband Juan and bears four | mids to the back alleys of unrest, + © Pra.
when Rosa Seis = iew: “An unpretentious femi- | illuminates Egypt's determination to a Story
sons. Uae oo e and determination, refreshingly glorious past with an uncertain Politica] ft a its
nist tale et ” 13.95 pb, 1-55885-257-3. Arte pb, 0-9659308-3-1. Erica House Book Publisher
7B 72r 04o ; 713-e 7s 43 -2U 9n 9i 9v .e rs Ai vt ay i labof l e Ho fu rs ot mo n, B &T,H ou Bs Pt , on S malT lX | <Bo mx a rk1 e10 t9 @, e rF i p ce ad he or uc sh e .cM oD m >.2 17 A0 v2; a ila30 b1 l- e6 31 fr- o9 m0 73 i e a Pub - |
Press Distribution, and Ingram. lisher and from B&T and Ingram,
The Maquiladora
Reader: Cross-Bordey
Organizing Since NAFTA edited by Rachael Kamel
and Anya Hoffman provides an Overview of the
Set in Egypt and reflecting that country’s politi- | maquiladoras, plants owned Primarily by US,
cal climate is Yesterday Is Gone Forever by Soha companies along the Mexico/U.S. border. Since the
Abdel Kader. Mona Fahmy is a weathy young Egyp- enactment of NAFTA, these “global sweatshops”
tian woman coming of age in the conservative culture have mushroomed to over 3000 and employ a million
during the era of Anwar Sadat. Her parents are pro- | workers. The collected articles demonstrate the
gressive, but still plan to arrange her marriage. creativity and determination of maquiladora activists
Meanwhile, a political prisoner, Khaled Nour El Din,
See Small Presses, page 89.
Now available from InBook
Between Gardens: Observations on Gardening, Friendship and Disability
y by Dorothy Field and Carol Graham Chudley
pay In 1995, Dorothy Field and Carol Graham Chudley began corresponding about their gardens. Mt
the same time, Carol suffered from Chronic Fatigue Syndrome, an illness that forced her to alter
her active lifestyle. Despite chronic pain and sleep deprivation, she recorded the cycles of her
beloved garden an , d corresponded with Dorothy. She also kept a record of her illness. These
tle ot gt ee trs h erb et crw ee ae tn e af r ji oe yn ods u, s e mx ec de ir tp at ts i of nr om o n C la ir vo il n' gs wj io tu hr na sl is m pla in cd it y,r ep fr aio td hu c at ni do ns in teo gf r iD tyo . rot, a work
Gardening / Health « 1-896095-55-0
« $19.9 5 USA / $24.95 CAN, pb « full-colour artwork throughout
Pool-Hopping an d Other
Stori
by Anne Fleming
g Ato oo nc sen ri uthe les ss] Y pa ree ciss e w it h A desca ri ip pt tii ons ( Winters now were petulant and bitter, like the brothers of kings )
/ 1S 8hh 0e 0tm -ra 2dk e 3s 1q 6br a =ci ng 2t rut oh tf ul de ebut ewit h these 13 stories."
PF tooOL A LT ES S iiI s| hAA tR eN TD oi st Or ri db eu rt ed llt o t € a — Publishers’ —Week ly |1 4 rb e :e pb
f s
Ca
4 . 0
‘
e
e
2 2Feminist
Bookstore
News
Sidelines
4
Articles
Booksellers Faves & Raves. .-- +--+ ++55: 39 Decals «2. Seeyeh os na , Jeoki eson 75
Sidelines fora New Feminist Front ......-.-- 45 DiSPIAVS 3 ne cas reuse Nan 75
The Joy of Selling Sex Toys ..--+-+-+++-> 49 Distripucars-e. 8. ber ee eat eee 76
Calendar Round-Up 2000.....-..--+++--: 55 Flags’. .easee- © yas oe eal ek 76
MusichNe WS serrata Roto Of ose s\ns ae Tepe eee 61 (USM eee i Boe S oer SG eee Ce 76
Video News~ - "Bapist cee SEEeek”-2 5 65 Gini MELChieeee fo ee ee ee 77
Thesidelines 7 Seer ats eet Pee. he Ree 67 Goddess Imagery a2 2 SMO EER 78
ID) Eaes yameein. > ur hacia meneame 79
Jeweluy... ei tig! (7. Aig at ec ees 79
The Cideli nes
Bumperstickers. a saiSlet 6 oan 67 journals! o... 78s Seg eo a ee 80
OE 67 Macazines | Mp“ag . ee 80
Calendars:, . , Sie Ne pause enna 68 Mapricisn te et oo + ae ae 82
ANE A fee kh ase can, 2. 69 wae TCE: ote oe 82
84
G Gn ri dl eh eoi tde ts te1 in2 s00 mue .a rve 7 70 i wath ea tiie e
f i r .a e e. e, 0 eet os ee ee i
Coloring BOOKS: 50 2, > Bac, fata ae ae 73 oe eee oO ae 8
«5-077 a
Transformation.
74 Tools for
RS Chaty is, OP Oa o : oe ee eke PACE moet crnay 7~ |) iae ep einmcroemin gni ete ?bois 87
s e g 4 V idéo
37Bookstore News
Feminist
“Ip is by the force of 1mages that real revolutioy, ae maga
CALENDARS
ee
7 $12.95
Calendars also available from
Bookpeople, Small Changes, New
Leaf, Armadillo, Don Olson, Koen.
POSTERS|
e ALTERNATIVE ALPHABET
POSTER
¢ FOR LOVE OF THE WORLD
*GIRLS IN SPORTS
© ZAPATISTAS
REVOLUTIONARY
FOR WOM
(Spanish/ Enclish}o
7 Ann Altman Kers
Syracuse Cultural Me
re TOOLS FOR rir
Bi] © Box 6367 * Syracuse, N ie
www.syrculturale ers.
Email: scwesyrcu
IMPRINTING AVAILABLE O (3R 1D 5E )4R 7S 4/ -C 1 AT 1A 32L x1O 02G 1S 0: 2 -° 5D 9o 9 nna
FREE FAX (C7) Caa Feminist Bookstore
News
Booksellers’
Paves
&
Raves
Compiled by Teri Mae Rutledge and Kristin Redmon
“healing,” “tranquility,” “protection,” “creativity ne
Antigone Books etc. There was also a heart-shaped glass for Valen-
tine’s that read “I Love You.” Recently I got some
Tuscon AZ with pagan phrases like, “Blessed Be,” etc. on them.
We've gone wild lately with journals and greet- sKr ui gs gt ei sn ta, ont sh e ap nr de si wd ie ln t alof Li df oe fo crc ue s, omis ve or ry ro s.p en heto
i l s o t de T
ing cards. It seems the more we expand these areas, stones are 75 cents each wholesale. I sell them right
the more we sell. Some great lines for journals are at the desk in a glass bowl. They are irresistible, and
Brush Dance (see ad page 40, listing page 70), Cachet,
most people look through them while I’m ringing
and Running Rhino (800-574-4665). Two new lines for up their purchases. Like bumperstickers, these
us that are fabulous are Salamar, featuring beautiful encourage those who see them to ask where they
calligraphy of heartfelt sayings (see ad page 83, listing
came from — free advertising. (See ad page 41, list-
page 80), and Michael Roger Press, which creates ings pages 76 and 87.) —Patty Callaghan
well-made straightforward hardbacks with spiral
binding and some truly immense black sketchbooks. ) goddesses
Many of these companies make nice photo albums,
too, which I finally broke down and tried after years
of requests! They sell very well. (Be sure to stock ...creating sacred space in gardens,
photo covers, too.) homes and work spaces
I also want to recommend selling Bandilies ae FO |
Stationary by the sheet. We carry the earthy tones (20
cents an envelope, 10 to 15 cents a sheet for paper.) It
does amazingly well.
Also, I've just got to rave one more time about can-
dles from Three Tacky Texans! They’re hilarious
“Teligious” candles with everything from “Protections
from the Politically Correct” to “Our Lady of Tattoos
and Piercings.” They sell very well for $9.95 each. (See
ad page 70, listing page 69.) —Kate Randall
° figurines ° fountains uo
Brictt Books ¢ garden goddesses * bird feeders
St. Petersburg 5) anadn em uch more. eiecan eWate
FL
We havean inexpensive new sideline that does
very well. Focus Stones from Lifeforce Publishing
S mG INES catalog
are small, brightly colored oval pieces of glass
a ‘nb go su t ot nh e tsi hz ee m .o f a E 5 x0 a- mc pen lt e sp iec oe f w wit oh r dw so rd us s edor s aa ry e- «733 Ormewood Ave, SE + Atlanta,GA 30312 404-627-2328 +
July/August 1999
—=—_ ==
Volume 22 Number 2 39Feminist Bookstore News
They’re
Charis Books the kind of cards that YOu send jf
“say it all,a”nd so far they’re sel}; Il yo uw
|
Atlanta GA They're also quite reasonably prowl Well foie
1. Jane Iris candles. We really love her stuff. We cards: They retail for $2.50. The ga] for handmad
just got three new additions to her line: Wishes, and Diana. Bas there are Quit
Dreams, and Serenity candles. We assume that they'll 5. During the holiday Season, we gt
sell just as quickly as all of her other candles. (See list- sculptures from Touch and Be Touched Ocked Pewter
ings pages 69 and 79.) keep them in the store! The compan and COUulndot
2. Westill really love the Tin Lizzies by Pleidies. sculptures and candle holders. They stent both
3. We've also been selling leather-bound journals inches tall and are reasonably priced. The One to two
from a company called Oberon. nite hits! (See ad page 42, listings Pages “| were defi
4, There’s a new card company that we've just 6. Smart Glass Jewelry is a cones 7 74.)
ordered from called Beneath the Surface. They’re a Atlanta that sells jewelry nationally. The iewalnes :
lesbian-owned company that produces handmade stained-glass look to it — it’s really bright) ae
cards with poems inside. They’re really quite sweet. — but the glass is a bit rounder than stain His
Smart Glass produces necklaces — both ce
chains and chains with a more industrial look ae
The Poetry of rings, and beautiful bracelets. Contact: Kathleen :
7. We still love Nan McMan’s goddess figurines
from Slitherings! She’s also Atlanta-based. (See ad
page 39, listing page 78.)
8. By far, our bestselling sidelines come from
Salamar. They do about ten different journals as well
as poster cards and affirmation cards. Poster cards are
8.5 x 11" and produced on thick cardstock. They have
calligraphy as well as artwork and retail for $6.50. The
affirmation cards are smaller and more like poems.
Both are beautiful. We find that we are needing to
constantly reorder from Salamar; we really love their
products, and they all move for us! (See ad page 83,
listing page 80.)
—Sara Look
FRN
San Francisco
CA
_ Saige Street Studio just sent FBN a big box of
their products. Their stuff is pricey, but the desig"
are pretty darn cute. There are sweatshirts a”
t-shirts and aprons with big yellow caution signs,
One with the caption, “Caution, Bitch Approaching:
another with “Caution, Menopausal Woman
BruFr see hc olor C aat nalo cg Approaching.” The back of the bitch t-shirt hasson
D e
nonsense about bitches being “Bodacious, ne
100 Ebbtide Ave } Sausalail ito, CA a ree c ommTr eu nt dh -s We ee ak ri in ng g, a C yo en lf li od we nt c, a rdiH ge all nr a oi vs ee rr ” the° ° s hir t
800-531-7445
ote to emphasize the more in-your-face front side. The
Bitch Bag” and “Tramp Tote” have fake daisies
July/August 1999 SS LeLe ee reverse-side bit. Me, I’m gonna take ee
ber?
40
Volume 22 Nee Feminist Bookstore News
new tramp tote to Safeway, where hopefully the Out Word Bound
checker will start calling me “floozy” instead of
uMrs. Rutledge.” T-shirts wholesale for Indianapolis IN
w c$ ca d ae h an1 rsd pa0 di tt. sg 5 t n o0 o ) c nt- . w l se$ i us1 t S m2 h aa sw. ri ih5 eg l 0 o ve y, l i e n rS tts et o.s taa tw gl ma ye ee l y a s t o cf s p leo ih eyr s ci e et elr )$ l u t 1 s .rs 0 we ist M,h t( e w h m h i hVo cail n fon n l ae i ot vds m r oa a .u rgl im e te tB o euu S to e c f r ir ho sd sir ee e od tr s m h: , $ ee 2 a0 (s i “- s ox s Cf$ o e o2 mtp t n3 ee h -, -or ef dcan r eaa lep sr vo iv etl ge ,hiT nd es sa :m t ra as i dSlr va ei oea y ss rs t io s T nnt te yr h hos ,a e n ”ic e vr y f s r on pf wam aur r sm eo m b A l ae osvc nr aO h iu e ”l lt o km a ain b s nW e lt de “o . br b ai “d e T lns h at ane as csB e cee wo l ilu ,”i dn p n eod g l ai sV nis asi dmhn ri pe id ld e oeI t tln fy hid a n ei n ,e ra d o ”s- sf
i p v r y o m t e a e “ o sr id , i e d n e, ” “ i y
fg er wa tu tl ha at ti on ss p eco in f iy co au llr y Di cv eo ler bc re a” t e car md e. n oT ph ae ure s e.a re Aa ll ls o ofa mha av ne ’ s im ha ag ne ds , l Jik ae p at nw eo s e dan cac li ln ig g raw po hm ye , n, a nds wo tr hd e s, w oa ms ah na-
Et rh ie cm Jc oe nl ge ,b ra St oe phiw ao me Lon en,a nd Lewi in scl ud Ce rroq lu lo ,t es atrf ir co im ws oy rm kb ,o l. utT am ta her ya hs aa vi ed st oh at maA nl yc hem sti rs ot wil dl sid go sc us (ot vo em
a r a P a b
n g e n r
Schroeder, and more. Cards are $11.90 per dozen 250), that she’s never taken advantage of this in her
wholesale. (See ad page 71, listing page 72.) —TMR frequent reorders. Most of the stones are small and
will fit in your pocket (also a great gift; the stones are
Inklings $5, and customers can buy a black velvet bag for the
stones for 50 cents). “These are great for the counter
Salt Lake City UT and take up very little space. They come ina nice dis-
Liz Brackeen says that Inklings sells a lot of Cow- play box that’s about 8" x 10" — great quality ata great
girls Ride the Trail of Truth: A Game for Women. price point!” (See ad on back cover, listing page 86.)
Though it’s expensive (retail: $50), “It really goes.” On the opposite end of the money spectrum,
She describes the game as being a mix of truth-or-dare Tamara reports selling a good number of solid slate
and Trivial Pursuit — a “sharing” game. Created by
Side Saddle.
“They 're our best selling sideline!”’- Melissa,
She also says that Quotable Cards — cards and
I Love Books, Delmar, NY
postcards with all sorts of quotes on them — “just fly.”
Serenity
Lammas Women’s Books Focus Stones
»———_| from Lifeforce Publishing
and More
Washington DC
Denise Bump raves about Rebecca R. Rod’s pottery Over 400 words and sayings
‘Balance
rattles. R.R-Rod produces handmade, egg-shaped rat- on colorful 1" glass stones.
tles in addition to priestess, shaman, and full-moon
rattles. The company also creates altar bowls, which Custom work available.
also do well at Lammas.
Free basket display with
Lavender Dragon $75.00 opening order.
Menlo Park CA For a complete listing of styles available,
Owl Blossom told us that she sells a lot of Water
visit our website:
Sounds fountains: Available in a variety of shapes
www.lifeforceonline.com
and colors, the fountains use a pump that is silent; the
only thing you hear is the water flowing over the
La or call 800-828-3 870
rocks. Owl says they‘re great for Feng Shui. $40 to $65
wholesale: (See ad page 42, listing page 74.)
July/August 1999
Volume 22 Number 2 41eeCOPY See! fied
Bookstore News
Feminist
stone fountains from Stone Art (retaj |
ai
under $100). She says that they havea he Price: jig
Water derful sound. She also said that the 2 auti Won.
little hard to work with (they’re hard fo Was 4
and fulfillment can take a long time), but a ahold
OuUnas worth the effort. § of
been we
0 Tamara was initially Skeptical of thi
uct, but it’s become a hit at Outw is next Prod.
0 small indoor fountains crafted sunglasses. They retail for $9.98, looka rd aiB oun d:
for the sounds they make Danziner Wholesaler, the Supplier, wjl] cue
) 6)
buy-back. tee
Dict)
Finally, Outward Bound has started Selling float.
ti hn eg cg ael dlc ea sn dl ae rs lb iy hta lyc o sm cp ea ntn ey c aa nl dl ed riIf g. htS lh ye cS oay ls ret dh ,a t a“
A WOMAN-OWNED COMPANY SERVING n e g d b o
INDEPENDENT BOOKSELLERS
Prairie Moon
Mt. Prospect IL
Write, call, fax or email for our free catalog:
We have pretty much stayed with the old favor-
PO. Box 610089, Redwood City CA 94061 ites: jewelry by Pat Pearlman (see ad page 82, listing
phone 650-366-9750 6 fax 650-365-3661 page 79), Jane Iris (see listings pages 69 and 79), K.
watersounds@earthlink.com Robins, Gina and Ann Lewis; candles and incense;
and “Women Fly” t-shirts, patches and hats from
Pewter Miniat Speak Inc. However, our rep for Brush Dance (our
bestselling cards, posters, and journals) introduced us
to Two Women. We tried just the pins, bookmarks,
and journals from their extensive line which also
Candle holders & altar pieces includes notecards and much more stuff decorated
by with art stamps. They were very well received by our
‘touch And Ke Touched customers, —Linda Mowry
“These p ann ages auc te yl eb ar na dt te irrt h te ivyf se .m wa ol me enf or rm join ciit ns bounty
in hp eo r a e i g Sisterhood Rooks
l e “
Los Angeles CA
Story Teller
1. Deas Candles from The Alchemist i
m( iM so tu nd os utv il ol f e CAW )V . — W e'no vt e to reb ae l lc yo nf bu es ene d en ae e : in - to
candle sales lately. These are homemade, § roups
rainbow candles. They come in triangles, 8
of four ona string.
uth
2.A new sideline for us is Colorado a we
Osity, a company that sells journals es wonder
Products have the most peaceful, beaut! clay
sfu cl li pm ta urg ee ss oo ff ww oo mm ee nn ,. aT nh de y jua sr te p lh ovo et og tt h@ eP Call and
u
I
™
July/August 1999 —— i a eee ER S Dasa es elk l f 3 ao . r A la om t b yr oo fc B h aru htr eee rl ! ’ s p( rAS oEe de uO cl ri tis sgt ii nng a l hsp . ra g oAe m g7 y h2 ) e ge yl ru ase c id u s ee
t u
42 Volume 22 NFeminist
Bookstore
Se News
Cultural Workers but now has her own line of prod- to sell something
stea dily that
ucts. These are incredible new images on greeting Profit is really exciting! en 2°88 bring a good
ds. They're selling really well for us. —Linda Bubon
a 4, Laurel Birch mugs from Henriksen Imports are A Woman's Preroeative
also wonderful! They come in two sizes, both big,
with bold, colorful prints; one popular mug features Ferndale MI
c ca at ns. d l5 eT . sh e Oy u a t n da l os fo c atm nho de lv ee D h r oe lre daa eml rl t sy i mw e te h l al t a lf s ao or r e u ps pr. oo pd uu lc ae rs fv oo r ti uv se . wW eo rm ee A n dm oy c i o nl go B rl ia vnk ege r y bs oa wi o ed lk ls . th aa “nt T d h eT yr ci 'ab r re d e s o fbf u y l lD Si ohy fin la o eh h m’ ps oM wcC eCo l rlo o ir u d go f
n
The holders are copper and have goddesses or cats images of women,” she says, and reports that she sold
around the bottom. (See ad page 72, listing page 70.) her whole order before she even got the bill. (See ad
—Simone Wallace page 43, listing page 73.)
Venus Envy Wonderworks
Halifax, Nova Scotia Toronto ON
My favorite new add-on is Magnetic Poetry. We Melanie Collum is the owner of Riverbank Pottery.
sell the original, the erotic, the artist, the cook, and the She does wonderful plates, bowls, mugs, and plaques in
romantic versions. They absolutely sell themselves the Womynspirit theme. We have carried her things for
and because only two other stores in town have them, a number of years, but lately her creativity has really
we draw new clientele all the time (when the other blossomed and her pieces are even more varied and
stores run out of certain types). —Shelley Taylor beautiful. (See listing page 74.) _—Mary Anderson O
Wild fois
Color of Woman
Gainesville FL
A Coloring Book and Journal
These two sidelines are new to us: Enchanted
World of Boxes Inc. creates great wooden boxes.
*°A wonderful creative
There is a set of zodiac boxes that has been popular,
sanctuary designed to
other designs also sell well. The boxes are made in
inspire a spiritual
Poland.
journey. Filled with 28
Nomenclature Notecards from Minnesota
Women’s Press Inc. feature quotes from famous and beautiful images, each
should-be-famous women. Individual cards are $9 of which holds the
per dozen; boxed sets of ten different cards are $5 per vision of woman as
box. They are great! I am getting ready to do my sec- creator. 115 thick
ond reorder, (See listing page 72.) | —Dotty Faisby pages, so almost any
i
medium can be used.
Se) 5
Women and Children First COLORING Pook me TOURMAL “S A space to play,
Chicago IL dream, heal, pray, and create. | was so excited, | wanted
We do really well with Oberon journals. And not to jump right in and color!” —FBN
just their journals, but their entire line of products, Shiloh McCloud, Tribe of Diynah
Including card holders and checkbook covers. It’s 707-933-8875
888-385-6866,
teally nice to have an expensive sideline that sells! www.colorofwoman.com
mae can sell bumper stickers and magnets, etc., Covered spiral binding, 9" x 11". Retail price $19.95
aa Ough it is satisfying to see those go, you can sell Also: she-shirts * cards ° prints
Teds of them and not really make any money. So
SVoilrumee 22 Nue e mbr er >
43——
Bookstore News
Feminist
tll y THE COMEDY CD COMpAyy
Kate Clinton Maryellen Hooper
“Comedy You Can Dance To” “Dignity Under Duress”
UP 3790 - CD and Cassette
UP 3792 - CD and Cassette
America’s Premier Fumerist
1999 GLAMA Comedy Award Winner 1998 Female Comedian of the Year
KATE CLINTON
MICHELE BALAN
Neurotic by Nature
“Kitten With A Wit Michele Balan
Self-DesesrcihraitU P e3 d8 00 1 “= F(@ e) l) “ Neurotic. By Nature n
b lq Girlie”
UP 3801 - CD
The Comic Princess
Sa
Distriibb uted by Ladyslipper
(1-800-634-6044)
aO Tand Golden (1-517-484-1712) _ ee
ponte?
44 volume 2F eminist
Bookstore
News
Sidelines (o> a
New Feminist
Poont
By Kristin Redmon and have grown up to be whomever and whatever
they wanted to be — just like y'all told us we could.
Cunt-shaped soap and cutting-edge, queer-girl
films. Sparkly pussy stickers and t-shirts that demand Ohe Angry 64>
real (read: not spice-laden) girl power. Punk-rock cov-
ers of Chris Williamson songs (yes, Ido know who she I love wearing my “Fuck Your Fascist Beauty
is) and zines, zines, glorious zines. Standards” t-shirt to the mall. Hands down, this
These are the kinds of things I want to see in lovely white shirt with its tastefully scripted black
feminist bookstores. Yes, I am under 30, and yes, | message gets me more attention than a Lesbian
am a feminist. And the way I see it, girls and young Avenger kiss-in ever did. I’ve got Jill at one angry girl
women are integral to the survival of feminism — designs to thank for that. One hundred dollars, a bor-
feminism and feminist bookstores. While it is true ing temp job at an insurance company, a t-shirt
that feminist bookstores are becoming increasingly printer who was not afraid of the “f” word (um...not
girl-friendly, there’s still lots that can be done to let feminist), and, well, one angry girl combined to create
us know that you want our dollars and ideas in one angry girl designs. In August 1996, Jill, a recent
y/our community. Addressing the needs of a new college grad, took her twelve shirts around to stores
generation of feminists is no small task, to be sure, in Portland, Oregon, sold them on consignment, and
but damn, it’s important. the rest is history. And, as the extremely popular oag
Young women who walk into feminist book- shirt tells us, “Well Behaved Women Rarely Make
stores for the first time need to see evidence of their History.” After a small paragraph in Ms. magazine in
*Ver-so-third-wave feminism or they won't stick 97, the orders started flying in, so Jill chopped up a
‘round long enough to see that you do, in fact, carry
= se you, the past five years have seen more
dori ee of grrrls, girls, dykes, and young women
Stee : on f word proudly as they've started up
alae ne eaaae (distros), independent record
ing 5 ‘delice video distros, and companies produc-
menstrual. S Tanging from t-shirts to stickers to
Product alternatives.
yo “Pporting these kinds of companies is good for
" _. Ng SO shows your commitment to your
youn 8 femin=i, st customers as well as your commit-
Ment :
|
tpi feminist entrepreneurs. Most
Shows han ordering and stocking these products Graphic trom Blood Sisters Web site
ieI co i to gi.r ls who are growin; g ay Taagust
Mber 2
45Bookstore News
Feminist
catalog, P ut shirts on the m Hao td ie nl gs Yoth ua rt
Vicki's Secret
sai: d thiif ngs li° ke “ee an t ‘a i eR te rv io bl uu tt ii no gn , heS rt op c aI t alog. Four
b sii te, all sorts o cf un na rt ii eo sna l lap tr ere ,s s, nea nd nc gu rs y-
o a
6 o t
ee i institution
something of an
w di it sh rit bh ue iu nn de sr o- m3 e5 off e Jm ii lln ’i s st a ngse rt y. sN ho irw t s N ao s r wt eh le l rn a s S cou fn f eeis
t t g
emblazoned with
mugs, buttons, and stickers all
.
: ng ar y- Wg hi ir ll e s Jil lo lg ’sa n ns o. t among that rare breed of rich fem- Graphic from Mr. Lady's Web Site
efsin xh li e aus ’ cnt s ts k e yd d j o us n wat e c acy toae n ut , n Jt ie lix ls nh ce ge l e. ll lt e sGh n ii t r tn l hk esjs o b c a( ona f us o r nd god ao n a wnl E oyo nt t mgs h l eii nno sf g h ! o wt m hAh a one jr dos r) t th tw at eh th n’a o dst pMt aih gr no enu eg ah p o 7)lN ,io sr t bh uMe r Nn thS e5u 5n 4 0 f6 uD ; li s tir 8 ri 0b a0u - nt 2 go 5 ei r 8 s -, 8 o5 f72 9a 9 1 s6 hE G. eeL e , e
l h t y a 6 t l e on
her workshops. Jill says “No one ever told me, ‘Jill, bumperstickers is only available directly fae
when you grow up you can be a businesswoman.’” angry girl designs, PO Box 400674, Northc ania
So, she has made it one of her goals to make sure that MA 02140; 1-888-ANGRY-11, Web Ki
girls do hear this message. Asked about her plans for <www.ici.net/~angrygrl>. (See oag ad page 47, list
the company and the angry girl herself, Jill says, ings pages 77 and 85.)
“National name recognition, influence, power, sover-
eignty, and more shirts!” I say yay!
Pander Zine
Some one angry girl designs are distributed
So, now that you’ve got young feminists com-
ing to your bookstore, they’re going to start
Sticker Sisters
demanding stuff to read. Go figure. Well then, it's
been said over and over (cuz it’s true) that someof
the most radical, cutting-edge, and feminist writing
by young women today is happening in zines.
Because of the self-published nature of zines, they
“Stickers
can be difficult to find, learn about, and actually get
“shoelaces
into the store. Part of this has to do with the fact ca
*magnetic poetry sets
neither writing nor distributing zines has anything
¥buttons to do with making money.
ine, 2
This is a point that Erika of Pander -
to empower girls of all ages not-for-profit zine. distributor, makes time ;
again. Erika started Pander in 1995 as 4 sone pes
that stocked a few zines by Erika and her with
Pander now boasts a snappy print cat ale
descriptions and Erika’s comprehensive pe and
Over 100 titles, including Slant, Bitch Dyke | elec:
Hurricane Girl. Pander also has 4 success
tronic catalog on the Web. al is to make
WWW. Stickersis
Erika says that Pander’s primary 6° she offer
PO box 11480 zines accessible, especially to girls. : f
e of one
Takoma Park, her catalog g aatt half half o off the cover P prdice r won ; ctu ally;
MD 20913
July/August 1999
46Feminist
Bookstore
olicy On this stems from Erika’s belief that it is News
one
angry
important that the girls and women who write the gir]
designs
zines maintain control over where their work is
available. :
So while Pander doesn’t distribute to bookstores Fuck Youn fascist
ina traditional way, it isan excellent resource for some
of the hippest girl and queer-chick zines out there. And Deauty standards
Frika promises to get stores contact info for any zines
appearing in her catalog. Hey, it’s intentionally no Well-Dehaved women
Ingram, but stores might think of and use Pander as a
filter for that massive sea of zines out there. rarely make history.
No bones about it, if youstock a good selection of
zines (and Pander can help you do this) and get the
START A REVOLUTION ---
word out to the right folks, they’re going to sell. Their
presence on your magazine rack is also going to send STOP HATING YOUR BODY.
a concrete message to young women that their ideas, There's no equality
their communities, and their cash are welcome at while women feel unsafe.
your feminist bookstore. A self-avowed feminist
under 35, Erika says that Pander has always been sup-
ported by feminist communities. “Women and girls P.O. Box 400674
inzines, women and girls in Riot Grrrl for example — North Cambridge, MA 02140
that is my community. I support them and they sup- http://home.ici.net/wangrygr1l
port me.” Feminist bookstores need to support these 1-888-ANGRY-11 ;
zines exactly because they are grassroots endeavors.
Not to mention that you don’t need to sink a lot of
cash to start building up a respectable selection of Butchies, and Tammy Rae Carland, a filmmaker and
zines. As Erika points out, “Zines are not about mak- assistant professor at the University of North
Carolina, have a keen awareness of the kinds of
ing money; this is about communication.”
Pander’s catalog is available to stores at half off media I’m talking about. The two run Mr. Lady
the $1 cover price with a minimum order of 5 copies. Records and Video Art Distribution Company so
P.O. Box 582142, Minneapolis MN 55458; Web site that girls will never again have to be as egregiously
wrong as | was. Thank you! The two started Mr.
<http:/ /members.aol.com/GOpanderGO/>. Lady because they felt there weren't enough options
in independent music labels and video art distribu-
M>. Lady tion, specifically options that were queer, feminist,
af ne dm in mO i uu s st t if ci .t f t ri o Wnn htg i ljy euo su tr C l ai ib s rno e’o t k os fc t o to hmr ep e l Me of t oo er n t wh me i i t ghf hi o te u r tc be e vy ai o d cu e ln ao sg s - a an nd d fw M oro c.m u se eLn da . d yo T p ae ir s m a mt e ye ntd i. r R e al ey aw ndo m Ke an ia ca hn od s s/ e eo rr vt io cq c e u oe m be ebr ci an uer su en a
record label with a video distribution
Psi oc, w ea rn d tooA ln sn , tR he ere ed ’ s d ao e ds e ch ia dv ee d lyt ha dt i ffs eo rn eg n t ab fo lau vt o r th te o they found there aw ie mr ee d af te w a n o ap udtt i i eon ns c e fo =r sapff aoer adc abl i e
hath n ae d pk yi c n rd es a ti wo n af g s.m ed wCi a ha s e t h Iia nt fpy ioo ri su tn n t:g eaIf re c dm a i nn ’i t ts ht s te l bla ar ne y do c ur a Tv ehi aon mwg v T ai h nd e de o c mo ud smi ibs ct o .r ib a Tu l hst eoi o rn s e r lv ise s ist h ae m dii vn ert se ner tm s a s eo tf i t etl i ls sp ea er' “
p I e n h e i ‘ t s ' g wh e —_
movie: s and music usic y you really» —ca from young women
Dresch. It was the first time I realized that gay peO-
Ple didn’t have to listen to disco and that feminists
could do music other than folk. Butchies and Third Sex listed rig
The
5 Kaia Wilson, a former member of the band Team _darling Sadie B
tesch and current member of the band The by Art House darling July/ August 1999
Vue
Slume2 2 Number 2 47:
Bookstore News
Feminist
Graphic from Sticker Sisters Additional Girly Reso
@ 4P 7re 6t 6t 8y 0 , Pu Cs hs iy c agP or ,o du Ic L ts 6, 0 64C 7a .r l¢y aPt k uePO BoGx
by Mary Patten called
Riot Grandmas. Can't go jewelry, lampshades — aj] pussy Y Pussy Stick
P
wrong with that OWer! =
lineup. Ladies Art Revival, ’ PO Bo x 217 :
Mr. Lady is a slick 08057; email <ladiesartrevival@hotg 8%
distro outfit that sells Distro for lady-made comMi x, music vy; 1 -COms
its products to all spoken word. mai and
sorts of folks includ-
ing queer youth, Blood Sisters, Quebec Concord} :
alternative music 101, 2130 rue Mackay, Montreal ee ee
folks, artists, and art H3G 2J1. Canada; 800-REDZONRE (733.0663
students as well as music stores and email <bloodsisters@pirg.ca>, ,
bookstores. You really do want to have what they’ve Web site <www.pirg.ca/~bloodsisters>
got in your store. The diversity and freshness of their Cool chicks on a rampage to bring menstrual
outlook is exceptional. politics out of the closet! Accessorizing
Their politics alone ought to be enough to earn menstruation with reuseable menstrual products
thema place on your video shelf and some slots in your stickers, and pro-period t-shirts, work shirs, _
CD display. Tammy Rae says that maintaining a femi- and panties.
nist focus in youth movements is a major goal for Mr.
Lady. Part of the reason they’re “working their butts @ Lisa Buttonow, PO Box 1245, Madison W153701,
of trying to get their two-year-old company out of Inga Muscio lists her in the resource pages of
the hole is because they don’t want to see feminist Cunt as the maker of cunt-shaped soap!
action and discourse disappear from queer youth and
eels Sas cultures. So, in essence, supporting @ Sticker Sisters, PO Box 11480, Takoma Park MD
ages ies ee oes Asked what the 20913; email <stickersisters@aol.com>, Web is
ike Pea - . y adies say they aim to <www.stickersisters.com>. Stickers include Girl
est rete ae ee that they would Power!,” “This Insults Women,” and ie
Batre dees oo an 7 screenings as Rock’s Not Just For Your Boyfriend! Oh, an )
yOling Homey Sender eee that offer girls and now they’ve got shoelaces! Run by an ave
picts on experience with video and girl named Ariel Fox who says, “I do Sticker
quipment. Their major goal is to cut a fi Si help girls be proud of
gn id rl -s8 ee lt v ess .o m Te h est ei me f aco if ef s fo dr g et eh re si or ute ver- so- h ardwori kie ns g tht ee mr se e lve ec sa .u ”s e S endC aa ste am p foraae catalloog. g: (See#
Th eirM r.a ddLraedsys isi s onP the Web at aes Jm irl ga d ee page 46 hss ad fo
:
919-682-1150, cited Deehain NC 27715; | # Lady Lazarus Mail-Order, 120 NE ee
As third-wavers — ae pindspring.com> Olympia WA 98501. Hand-screened for tapes:
feminists, riot grrrls, queer ies Of second-wave Girl Liberation Army” t-shirts, Bee: for
and young women learning ab punk-rock dykes zines, patches, and stickers. Send as
first time —weneed the i 8 about feminism for the a catalog.
rs) that feminist 5 ead sel
ee
ita their inception. Ox; Ao #2 rea ee Ste wt
8eneration to ge ent, and approaches may va ae eS Eee eee with theit ©
titer 8eneration, but the Basi ry from started their business last yea ere 4
mM © 80als of femi- that says “Work for a Better Worl
3
July/August 1999 Girls Rule).”
vowume 2
48————— Feminist
Bookstore
News
The
Joy
of Selling
Sex
Toys
A Primer for First-Time Sellers, Toy Reviews,
Carol Queen,
By Teri Mae Rutledge
Materialist that I am, I’ve always loved new toys.
As a child, I was attracted to anything brightly col-
ored (with a special passion for hot pink), anything
with moving parts, anything glittery, anything that
had the delicious sharp smell of new plastic.
Things haven't really changed so much now that
line was a good decision for them (both personally
I'm big. During the staff’s Sidelines Issue summit, my
and financially), I was shocked by how little they
smart officemate Kristin Redmon mentioned that FBN
knew of sex products and how tentative they were
hadn’t recently run an article on my favorite whirligig
about them.
plastic sideline ever: sex toys. And being the
It made me realize that, as a seasoned sex toy con-
self-serving worker that I am, I volunteered to write a
sumer, I take for granted a certain level of sex
= toys update. After making far too many jokes about
positivity, toy positivity, and sex-toy expertise in
review requesting” sex toy samples for my research
those who sell me toys. It made me realize that,
(ha ha), I decided to visit the very fine toy store Good though the bright, lucrative world of toys may tempt
Vibrations here in San Francisco. I spoke with sex and my materialistic soul, a focus solely on products isan
sex-toy maven Carol Queen about the business of sell- incomplete preparation for prospective sex toy
Ing toys, tips for fledgling toy merchants, and all the
merchants.
lovely silicone, vibrating, sparkling products to stock. I So I thought I’d ask an expert for some advice:
also had a chat with Jo denBoer of Amazon Bookstore Member of the Good Vibrations Collective and certi-
(Minneapolis) about expanding the store’s collection, fied sexpert Carol Queen (Sex Spoken Here,
publicity ideas, a few tips for bookstores selling toys, Pomosexuals, Exhibitionism for the Shy, The Leather
is her toy recommendations. (Amazon had just Daddy and the Femme, etc.) holds a Ed.D. in sexology,
os stocking toys when we ran our last sex-toy arti- the academic or scientific study of sexuality. Queen
neers Kristin and I talked to the women at agrees that sex toy education is essential for success
; as, Venus Envy, and A Woman’s Prerogative to ful toy selling. She recommends The New Good
€e what toys they love to sell. Vibrations Guide to Sex: How to Have Safe, Fun Sex by
vairthoneh I originally intended this article to be pri- Cathy Winks and Anne Semans ($21.95 pb,
ree Enea driven, I changed my tactics after 1-57344-069-8, Cleis) as a good, general educative
= ae FBN’s sex-toy article archives: Five years resource for sex toy merchants and prospective a
oeGSal o ese a m e ei‘ rna i e n ss wa a I sf os se tuta e ert ,o u nr ge 1 99rt 4 leh . ea s ) tt o u eAr rf co ec f u te os f w e o rd m Bs opo Nnen c t i hfs s aia c bf e o- l up as r tte o e x rd ,u c ht to t ey ws is o. r, wp e Se v e hr e m et rs a ny. n o sn e“ p,I ut c’’ to s tn ’ is: nua glQ tuc eeo e d tm n p gr t es Ee a teyh hs e e;n s ali iav Tr n he g ede l ayg Gu ui b iod e dfe c e a .G u ost oh e Tda ht eW rVis einp fVI b e k ora s rak e ts ,i | o a nnd s it to
o r
s r a t F t
oe oys.S t Wo it lhe s ite x w- at so y oba vrt ii oc ul se a thn ad ath de di ir ngd ec is si eo x-n ot yo ibrato or f Or ro gm s1 m8 83, Joi hl nl su str Ha ot pe kd iniIn sn The T Je uc lh y/n Ao ul go ug sy
)
h e t a t on f a (
t 1999
a
Volume2 2 Number?
49News
Bookstore
Feminist
including: Amazon Book
Book Garden (Denver), La store (Minneap
m
More (Washington DC) A Women's the
+a MI), and Venys , Envy (M Ha aln ;’ Tet opt
ia). In the past, Good Vibration alifax, Nova Ve
future toy sellers to intern at the S h Ven alloy
hands-on experience with hanaiale BiVing Wome
service, ordering, etc. Toys in Babs S, Ct
Tantyy, Opening are two sex shops that baie S and Grang
Vibrations’ tutelage. Good Vibrations 5, from Gogg
tinue internships because they were t d to discon,
of staff ti; me, but Queen stil; ] encourag0 e0 q, mand ,
visit and experience sex shops, to ask ne
2856 Delta Drive to see how sex shops display their materiale
, and
Colorado Springs, CO 80910
(719) 391-4200 Fax (719) 391-4201 Another (albeit less tactile) resource is
e-mail tantus@concentric.com SILICONE Vibrations’ wholesale list, which is available f
Jo denBoer used Good Vibes’ list to request r a
Toys To Tantalize and develop Amazon’s initial toy stock in 199 The
Quality Guaranteed internship program and the availability of Good
BS ra ife l: l ianN to n C- op lo or ro su s and Boilable Vibes’ list are legacies of original Good Vibrations
Affordable owner Joani Blank, whose commitment to commu-
Respectful Packaging
nity-building prompted her to encourage similar
Quick Turn Around Time
Curteous Customer Service businesses in cities around the country. The Good
\S S
Vibes people continue to emphasize her philosophy
in the company’s 22nd year.
successfully addresses questions from all over the Queen also recommends that prospective sextoy
sexual-behavior spectrum. In addition, The Guide merchants become members of organizations like
speaks to a number of alternative sexualities, making Quad S$ (Society for the Scientific Study of Sexuality),
it a reference that can help toy sellers anticipate the to which many sex shop proprietors belong. Quadsis
many places that their customers may be coming an organization open to nontraditional sex educators
from, as well as providing excellent information. This such as women who sell sex toys. Its membership aso
1s a guide that first-time toy sellers can use to become consists of biologists, physicians, nurses, ee
e rk fr oen rs f o ew yrt oel o n e c rd e hg .a e n ua Id sb t ’ tl s e mt a o l s ra ob sn ,o eu *w ot f Dict se oo pm uy Wrs ap i, s ysl ie po nl,a gay yn e id a ne gs bf , o io r o —ks a e n t aa d o s do ke epn t ioe d hu est rj e .o y eas s xe l l -- a p aans dsy v,c h no cel d eo u g ci a ts htt eo s r, ks n, os woc a li n eo d dl o gg eti s ht e os o f, l o sg eia xan unt ah s lr . io p yo Il t aso ng di o s sts ie ii e s
u c o e ( l j t n o t. s. u a t to
te cs r e Qab s uo e eo ek s ns a le— s la sn on e da r ee nd ct u oh ce ua rt t eo y yos ue rc ti co un stis ma en se )a .s y way to Qn pri uoc afa det si s o ion n sa l lso of , atpi eon dl f ico ayr m m Pa a Ot k i ero Bs on , a 2a 0n 8b d o u t Mt h oe ue na r t ee V we wr wn
o r S i c t x , :
a
52314, or visit them on the We ce excellent
-wisc.edu/ssss /home/html>. Anot or Human
source of information is the OS ae i
Sexuality Web site, <www.sexua sty ma als
boasts a huge online archive of pee artic by
comprehensive sex education See em
well-known sex educators, link s to ma oduct
on sex ted
Society ha
eb
50 aFeminist
—— Bookstore
wh ich links “select sites which offer a unique, News
substantial, and free contribution of some kind to publicity. Queen su ests t
law and know for dois S that you know your state
Internet sex education.” The circle emphasizes factual
accuracy and pleasure positivity. There are many
more Internet resources in the “Sex Information”
chapter of Anne Semans and Cathy Winks’ The
| Woman's Guide to Sex on the Web ($15 pb,
bi0 e-0 cn6 o- m 2 e5 1 g5 ae4 sn 8 e- kr9 na, l o , w H la eQr dup gee eer anS ba ln eF u r rga aen ss c i ps os sc e so x i ) b. lt eo .y Pm ee or pc lh ea n st es ll int go th ru icm t a Cn o urge tn it ja ul d geo .r ga Bn us t” Aw la as b amov ae ’r st ur atn te od r neb yy a gU eS n. er alD is- is
e bax to oy fs kd no wg let da gs ek ed a tb heo u bt sm at wt ae yr s tos e rx eua sl p, na dn d a ts ho ol si ed oc fo ns pi ud be lr ici in tg ,a n ita pp se ha ol u. l) Tha dt vs ea li od, if fa is et ro sr e tow an pt os lot as
s e o e i s e t o to y d e p l s t t
fpv ura ns ,t l sy x,av a ar ni de nd di von q nu ti unr rti ehe .us iar ses mp o fn os ib cl uy toma en rd wi st eh th oe tstw e eo r rsm , se /n nc’ eos wf gf soe pc e au h pl oo et uu rsr se ha ,el s , le qov uge aa en ly t rs, aba cr u osn , mi av mge u,er t ns c.i t toy yA ew npo n’rm eses we s sn p’ as er e el rec ea se tsn ,-e-
o p e r e m o u t a ef e s r s s ’ n se f h o u l d t t c g y r iw m n pw s l
e
and (heck, why not?) your local newspaper. Queen
. Before making initial orders, Queen suggests adds that publicity can generate crank calls as well as
| that stores talk to their customers. It’s a way to get a new customers and suggests that the staff should be
| little advance publicity for the sex-toy line as well as prepared to handle that.
| assessing what the demand will be among your reg- If the store happens to have a sex expert, the
| ularclientele. Queen also recommends developing a press release should highlight that (so that when
| customer survey to get an idea of what, precisely,
Channel 5, your local talk show, Oprah, or whoever
customers will be interested in. (I suppose the dan- wants an official word from someone in the sexual
ger is that those of us who might be tempted to order know, they'll know to call and interview you —and,
acase of silver dildos based on our personal desire to of course, mention the store). This sort of “expertise”
Own one — ata wholesale price — may not be able to publicity will prove invaluable — more effective,
convince our customers of how glittery-wonderful Queen says, than any other kind of publicity.
they are.) Queen also suggested some special events to
_ Queen also encourages store owners to consider introduce your toys to the community, such as host-
the new customers that the toy section will bring in. ing erotica readings and toy-oriented open houses in
Chances are, your store will be one of the few, if not the store or the local women’s center. The readings
the only safe space for certain sex-toy con-
Suming segments of your community.
People who identify as female-to-male
May seek out the store, and Queen says
that for them, “Representational dildos
will be particularly meaningful, along
with a good FTM literature section.” Store
©wners should also remember the needs of
their Straight female customers (stock that
XY) as well as gay male clientele.
I thought it wise to ask Carol Queen’s
advice on publicizing a bookstore’s addi-
tion of toys to its roster. She said that, first
Of all, a store must ask itself, “How many
folks do I want to know the toys are here?”
I If f the store iose in a conservativ: e area, ii t may
: Rot Want overwhelming amounts of Toys in The Good Vibrations Guide to Sex (Cleis Press)
July/August 1999
Volume2 2 Number 2Feminist Bookstore NOW’
=
a
Premium
Quality
Adult
Toys
sm meet at Vixen Creations, the world’s Premiere
opem rataF ei dn e n sia s nrt an d o ee r ho a nt di ~ c i Paicr caf ete d ts hi< e4 l; ic ro an pe dld yi d i ld go rs wa in n: d p mlu ag rs k, tw o fm ore n i1 gho -O qw un ae ld ta yn g
c e f i o g e h i Sex
erything we make with a full lifetime replacement a
toys, we quarantine
Lae Your satisfaction is our goal.
Silicone products are:
: rekon eee heat ves 7 alae BOX
i ESE : For the pirate in yout lite:
vivid - 7a has a resiliant.
A lockable, lined treasure
* compatible - Silicone transmits chest.
vibrations like no other material
° Practical- silicone is easy to clean,
you can even boil it!
For Color Catalog Or Wholesale info
Please visit us at:
WWww.vixencreations.com
Vixen Creations
1004 Revere Ave.
Suite B-49
San Francisco,
CA 94124
Phone/Fax
(415)822-0403
Email vixensi@sirius.com
oo
a
—————
Vv lume
52Feminist
——— s— ho— Bookstore News
u ld get sex-interested community members into
our store (where the erotica will turn them on, and,
| conveniently, there will be all your sex toys promi-
nently displayed).
Amazon Bookstore also has a great program that
Jo denBoer recommends: a sort of sex-toy
| Tupperware party. A bookstore employee (in Ama- (be sure to stock at
zon’s case, a young, enthusiastic, knowledgeable € Such as Slippery
woman who loved to do the parties) gathers up some d be the only store
rDt As ih ee gmax n hv tBe zt oo oy e pns a r e,, s s st e osr gm naa ry bv ase l l te ots d it) h rt , a go ut t h ta te thhn hed tp ey a m’r .r tt s e hy h Ao as mw si s at tge o oo e( daw nn h dde mr he o s sne il e1 tl2 deys- m2 va0 et kh lhew e r po m t doe y tfn s ho. er StSy l / he u /M a c s k t wy a pa nst dt oa t rh s ue l i /g tv t h she t a r ty b wo iy lm no e d un oa' ft r g i e ae o yn ra t mr o soo y ff su .n g d ml T) (y h, Ic ’ se m tr a oi an rnn pl ed o a td wi oi tpe gl opos l o s is sw nt i tah g oh b ro a l en y ,ntk o es sp s sor st o tpho ome eu ri e n ot er
a n n a e o r e f i n l y oa d e h o l e S M c a n w o : e p r r i t e f
r n z a e e a
M r d c l v r r o
short contract for their hosts outlining the basic owner to store owner.) In general, Queen recom-
parameters of their parties (there’s a two-hour limit, mends casting a wide net among the small companies
there must be between 12 and 20 people attending) that produce sex toys. She says, “It’s an industry in
and a few statements: “We know you cannot guaran- which it’s easy to support small woman-owned com-
‘tee everyone at your party will purchase sex toys, but panies, and the quality of your stock will be higher for
_ please understand we are bringing merchandise for your careful research.”
sale, not just for demonstration.” And: “You will be I also asked Carol Queen what's new and excit-
Tesponsible for any theft that may occur and for the ing in the world of sex toys. She recommended the
Safety of our employee. We are not liable for any acci- work of Inner Space (contact: Guy, 818-997-8007),
dents or injuries in your home. We are responsible for which creates insertable toys from Lucite — a beauti-
the quality of our products. If a product is defective it ful, smooth, break-resistant material. Queen says that
may be returned to our store for a full refund. Other- while it’s a hard substance (without much give,
wise, all sales are final.” The contract helps everyone unlike silicone), it’s great for G-spot stimulation and
_| take the event more seriously and conveys that Ama- Kegel muscle exercise. Inner Space also creates a
zon expects to make sales at the event. curvy, goddess-shaped, clear dildo. “It’s gorgeous
In Minneapolis, Amazon is the only source for and classy-looking enough to put on your mantel,”
Wwomen-sold sex toys. Jo denBoer told me that the she says. Finally, she recommended a newish harness
stock at Amazon has grown in the past five years from from the folks at Stormy Leather (1174 Howard St., SF
a couple of vibrators and a couple of kinds of lube to
enough toys to fill two display cases. She says that sex
toys are certainly high-selling items for their price
tange and that Amazon is quite pleased with the
amount of sales their toy collection garners. She spec-
ulates that sales could be even higher if Amazon had
the space and inclination to set up a private viewing
Toom for the toys, but the store does wish to keep its
mphasis on books. She recommends that stores keep
toys ina'locked case, as Amazon initially experienced
‘ lot of theft. “There’s that shyness issue,” Jo says,
and then, of course, toys are also expensive.”
a .f
Andnow, finally, The Toys!! asked Carol Queen
q S‘ ho or ua bas Ci ac rym us at -h la ev ase t ao y sml ai lst l. “ rS at no gr ees ofa bs eo ll eu ct te rl iy 34i 1r 4a tt Ta ec ch hm ne on lt os g; : on fe x Ot rgpa ag se m: : (an ohai d sv er Hot pi ks ie nm se )n t
l d r t t c hae 0: 8 y J n
a
July/August 1999
= Number 2
53Feminist Bookstor e News
Pocket Rocket, a mini Vibe used n::
ulation.” It sells for $29.95 al Primarily for g
latex head attachment. She ah Or for $39.9 es
toys: “Metis Black produces silicon at about Ith
\ \ yes ‘ ieFos s i B Mo an .d y R ig ga sn d oo M Tha e BW ® ie ol S, d a rior-quality silicone, by hand ina
|e eenea m’ WHIA Td E a Ca Rn Ose S S tao ¢¢ b au ns di ne ps rs, o dum ca ek se s math ne y bes ot f t heo r y os t a 4S a fain ‘ _
aoe Electric Vibrator ( + women in mind. Her Rhythm dildo Pesca i
ple sell extremely well for ys as they ae Per and py.
stimulator on the market (I think art
are inexpensive and beautiful an dn Her toy,
many of my customers and friends!” Ve liberated |
recom Am me yn da Bt lai ko en s fo Ar WT oan mt aus n’ co Pn rt ea rc ot aa (Ferndale.
o f
s g tiv e
MI) says that the bestselling Sex toys in her store
Stormy Leather harnesses and Vixen dildos bot
which she orders direct (see Amazon’s reco iG
Std The FREE Coopon % tions for contact info). She also Sells lots of Succulents
Tie C Ue Nr epwa st t eS lopai mte a! n rL nai t coOtt .er “ a —Fo wr he ip cl hay dol eu sb ne ’s. sH ele lr allf a tv ho ar ti t me chse ,x but toy noi tn fot rh e lacs kt ore
t u of
trying — are the remote-control vibrating Panties by
CA 94103; 415-626-6783), which is outfitted with Swedish Erotica. She says that they are “a nice addi-
packets that allow both the wearer and the recipient tion to housework activities.” She orders lube,
to experience vibrations.
vibrators, dildos, and the vibrating panties from
Jo denBoer’s toy list starts off with, for Honey’s Place in Los Angeles (4711 Exposition Blvd,
high-quality silicone dildos, Scorpio Novelty Prod- Los Angeles CA 90016; 323-730-5070) and Nalpacin
ucts, 5414 Kings Hwy. 1st Floor, Brooklyn NY 11203; Ferndale (800-837-5946).
718-629-1149. More lovely silicone dildos are avail- Denise Bump of Lammas Women’s Books and
able from Tantus, 2856 Delta Dr., Colorado Springs More (Washington DC) says that the stores
tC rO i c.n8 e0 t9 >1 0; a nd 71 f9 r- o3 m9 1- V4 i2 x0 e0 n, , e 1m 0a 0i 4l Re< vt ea rn et us Av@ ec .o nc Se uin t- b De os rt as de ol .le rs tha ere v si tb rr oa nt gi ng elln ei rp sp le ncc ll ua dm ep s thef ro .m El
e O r s i
; 2-Strap harness, both the leather and we
v Ci ob mra mt eo rrs ea nd t.,a f Be ow ulS dt eo rr my Lea 8t 0h 3e 0r ;i n hc a 8l r 0u n 0d e -si 5sn e 2g s : 0c 8h 1 4e 8 8a 4 .p 0 VT( ihM xea eyl ni b au l t) s o v see hlr l s si lo otn ss, ao cf ea v ta h ii e l a T tb r hl eee a s bu af r sr e eo m C foh re S stO , V!a e
c S
C O 1 5 - h a t a p n a
: { tact into.
Amazon’s recommendations tor con
get educated, talk
So ladies, in sum: get reading, ct
duct test, aprlodtu
to your customers, product test, Pr? e
test! I must admit, | ama little pane and ge
m Dauryan aor- .eS she o 3r 81d 2e rs Pr To ab ye i tn aty ou fir st vio rr ge ir no ao lm s w, ifo fp en ofi n ng th eose 7. te ve
2 Laborat i ,
S E - h r st h e w r a ppeal o i
from Paradise Marketing, 4 fully for many of you, these oy eal to YOu oT
fa
993-3664. ae than your plastic lust, they Il app credibly fun 40
et business sense. Sex toys can be an e ity
to expand your store’s role in you" Lots®
ell.
add a neat little moneymaker a5 W | Co
good fun to all! |Feminist
Bookstore
News
Calendar Round-
up
2000
EEC
a
Ordering Stratesies
Sandi Torkildson told us about her sure-fire
calendar-ordering strategies. She suggests that stores
place their initial orders direct with publishers, order
conservatively, and take the higher, non-returnable
Calendars
discounts. Ordering direct has a few advantages:
Usually, publishers will not ask for more than a ten
By Sandi Torkildson
"| percent payment up front; stores then have 90 days to
pay for their calendars. Also, publishers offer higher A Room of One’s Own/Madison WI
‘discounts, including a non-returnable option, than
distributors. As Sandi says, “Everyone needs Pomegranate does some of the bestselling calen-
dars in our store. I often sell as many as 250 of them.
| calendars; they’re an easy way to make money. If you
| can take the higher discount, you may as well.” She Two of the 366-day, page-a-day calendars that do
well are Women’s Wit & Wisdom* ($10.95,
| orders conservatively, and then re-orders in October
0-76490-786-7), with a daily quotation by
froma distributor if necessary. When
a woman, and the Gay & Lesbian* calen-
stores have tons of leftover, heavily
dar ($10.95, 0-76490-442-6), filled with
| discounted calendars each year,
facts about the social, political, and
Customers will notice and wait for historical forces in gay and lesbian life.
those clearance prices. By ordering
The Women Who Dare* wall calendar
Just enough or a little less than ($12.95, 0-76490-848-0) and engage-
“nough, stores guarantee that most of
ment calendar ($13.95, 0-76490-881-2)
= stock will be sold at full price. both sell well. Pomegranate also pub-
B 1 also arer ee nm oi tn d ls e bv oe or ky so ne Peeoet ph la et l Gi es ohe rs ia go Oo ’d eeli fst eo *f ar (t 1c 2.a 9l 5e ,n da 0r -s 7. 49T 0h -e
= i ke :y g a K f $ 6
848-0), the Susan Seddon Boulet
“v Per cyon ie ei ne a c alena d aro , ak an d w if e yo u the laS rgh ea rm a 1n 6* " x( $1 12 3. "9 5, B ou0 l- e7 t6 '4 s9 0- G8 o4 d3- dX e) s, s e# s8
that fill € stock, people will find something ($16.95, 0-76490-888-X) are always oath es ae
= S their need. Sandi also suggests devoting customers. They have others you may wis Be ry,
espa and creativity to a nice calendar display, Margaret Mee’sY Flowers © f the Amazon.* erMaese erwass
Pecially during the peak months of November and one of the first English women to go to Sou
die spc le e arm y b ,e Nr . & w At B ooA kR s oo dm i spo lf a yO ne s’ hs e lvO ew sn , forS an td hei euse es eon e Note: Calendars in this section are available from Ingram,
a * titles are also at Bookpeople.
lime 22 Number) July/August 1999
55sN de w 0s
Books Cto ar pe
minist
6f a 9u 9n ,a . Ro( h$ n12 e. r9 t5 , P0 a- r7 k6 4 C9 A0- 83 99 49- 21 7 ;. ) | EngMN leO anu n'g
i
= U O: DK X; ., D34 stG rr ie ba ut edS ut it on heS t., .sL on bd yo s p Baa
i t n t U . e
Intention”
es a Live with 800-423-4525, rafalgar sou,
91731-17-3), which has re
Andrews Mc
wall calendar
simple brush-stro
; . | day-by-day and ee wing
Eas bn d bs tp iir doa eft io c An a va r el d . s .s a By ui B in r lg u d s inh g D 1a , nc Se au, s al1 i0 t0 o FBe e 4 d w ta i ir t o nh a s le t t qh uot oi u tt gl ee h sd t - fpB re r ol o mi v e o Sv ki in ece eIno e Our s ie nl sC y pa e il re c an s. .
.
CA 9 W49 o6 m5; e n8 00 a- r5 t3 is1 t- 74 c4 a5 l. e ndars always E Dl ae ia lyn :o r $9R .o 9o 9s ,e ve 0lt - 83an 6d 9-To 0 3me 7n 9S ,"u ic ,h s m ag
do well, and one of the annual big sell- ment: $10.99, 0-8362-1798.5, a, se
ers is the Sara Steele Originals* wall McMeel, 4520 Main St. Ste.709 ta’
c hea rl end dar sk( $11 d.9 i5 a, 1-5 (5 $94 19 44 .- 96 57 )- 0) fra on md City MO 64111; 800-826-4016 |
e r y
Tide-Mark. Tide-Mark is doing a new Cedco Publishing Company is doing foith di
calendar this year called Women of Vision* that cele- ent SARK calendars for the first time. Th =
brates women activists and artists with illustrations According to SARK* combines tw: elve oof fhert be st.
from the National Museum of Women in the Arts. selling posters including “How to Be an Artist”
($11.95, 1-559494-74-3.) Tide-Mark, PO Box 280311, ($12.95, 0-76833-522-1.) Change Your Life Without
East Hartford CT 06128; 800-338-2508. Getting Out of Bed* is based on her new book by the
The British Women’s Press’ Women Artists same title. ($12.95, 0-76833-347-4.) Finally, two
Diary* sells well because of the art but also because it engagement calendars are filled with her art and wis-
is a good size to carry around — smaller than most dom, My Bodacious Day* ($13.95, 0-76833-553-1) and
UL YEAR AHEAD
ae oF GODDESS
feta
OF THE Gonpess L
n SE Bn Ng a 1g -e 5m 5e 6n 7t -9C 0a 6l -e 4n da *r $f 1or .92 50 09 A Be In Sa BNi ' 1s 56SJ O 0-U 7&R 2N 5A 8L ROF .H 9O PES, One SBND AY -55A 7T 0A 52T 0I -M 4E J $o 1u 5.R 9N 5A
I 0 7 R E -A 5M -D E SI E 1S I 1 6 - *
7 « $ 5 5
. POETS S eT en E esW e, a eR a T ys» TT. e * aA BO .R I & Cy EST& ,C 18y TH ‘ STREET, NY, NY 10011. °. 1-800-932-00/ 0apaiete meee
fae
July/August 1999 ej :
Volume Nee
56Feminist
Bookstore
News
ucculent Wild Woman* ($9.95, 0-76833-564-7),
The S
Cedco Publishing Company, 100 Pelican Way, San OOO
Rafael CA 94901; 800-227-6162. go? : °06
Another popular woman artist, Jane Evershed,
a THE LUNAR CALENDAR:
twi il ol n s,h a Tv he e a Pc oa wl ee rnd a or f o Wu ot mefr no .m * Ro $1n 1n .i 9e 5 , Se 1l -l 5e 6r 9s 0 6P 1r -o 4d 4u -c 0- . a) DEDICATED To THE GODDESS © ©
» IN HER MANY GUISES.
Ronnie Sellers Productions Inc., PO Box 71,
SCee@
Kennebunk ME 04043; 800-MAKE-FUN. a
eeeo®
Chronicle Books is doing a calendar based on the
new book titled Dancing with Cats* by the same
24th ANNUAL EDITION!
authors of Why Cats Paint. It is a great one for cat lovers.
$12.95, 0-81 18-2416-0. Chronicle Books, 85 Second St. “ ..the most beautifM4 ul calendar | have ever seen...”
6th Fl., San Francisco CA 94105; 800-722-6657. - Marge Piercy, THE MOON IS ALWAYS FEMALE
Some of my favorite quilt calendars come from
Features fresh works from 23 artists and writers,
Collector Books. They produce a wall calendar, 32 page wall-hanging, definitive moon-data.
American Quilter’s Society ($8.95, 1-574327-25-9),
with photos of extraordinary quilts from the 1999 ORDER NOW FROM: BAKER & TAYLOR, BOOKPEOPLE, LADYSLIPPER,
New LEAR SAMUEL WEISER, SMALL CHANGES, VISIONWORKS AND
AQS quilt show and contest, and an engagement
THE PUBLISHER
calendar, Quilt Art 2000 ($9.95, 1-574327-14-3), with
»
traditional and contemporary designs. Dutton ~ pp eM C
”L UNA PRESS « @ ISBN 1-$77920-10-X
(Penguin) has the Quilt Engagement Calendar 2000, Printed on recycled
which features primarily antique pieces. ($13.95, paper in the USA » yar Retail still only $20.00
0-670-88544-4.) P.O. Box 15511 * Kenmore Stations Boston, MA 02215-0009 USA
Tel: 617-427-9846
Llewellyn Publishing does Yasmine Galenorn’s
Witches’ Datebook 2000* ($12.95, 1-56718-951-2) and
Witches’ Wall Calendar 2000* ($12.95, 1-56718-951-2) from the creative spaces of some of America’s
which are filled with seasonal topics, festivals, anda talented women. ($13.95, 0-78930-312-4.) Their Sim-
full moon ritual. Llewellyn Publications, PO Box ple Abundance engagement calendar has beena very
64383, St. Paul MN 55164; 800-843-6666, fax good seller for the past two years at our store. ($13.95,
612-291-1908. 0-78930-280-2.) This year there is also The Something
Pocket Books (Simon & Schuster) is doing a More Date Book by Sarah Ban Breathnach based on
Women of Star Trek Calendar for the first time. $12, her new book with the same title. This calendar is
0-671-03272-0. Simon & Schuster, 1230 Avenue of the filled with thoughts and quotes selected by the
Americas, NY NY 10020; 800-223-2336. author, aimed at helping women discover their
Price, Stern, Sloan (Penguin) will do the Wild authentic selves. ($13.95, 0-78930-281-0.) Universe
Words from Wild Women* again with opinionated Publishing, 175 Fifth Ave., NY NY 10010;
i quotes on life, love, and more. $10.99, 800-221-7945.
Almanac from
.4 Stew wa- ar8 l9 t l- 7, cT aa lb eo nri ar& feC ah ta un rg wi tll eld vo t Ah fe ricI aD nr e Aa mm r-A L moP rC )W ,(e t h wey ho ir cd ge hir v e dt oah ee s5 5%E w v ee ld lr i y scw fo oo rum na t u n s ’ fs o er veo rr yd er y 5s e a 7r o .f ei fa 4
d in g w e e e 1 w me
Women’s Press-Canada,
i.N . .w ome ($n 1 1.9w 5,h o 1-5h 5a 6v 7e 0 -91m 8a -d 8e .) a Tn h eyi mp aa lc st o po rn o dut chi es 0 St- .8 89 #61 2- 32 33 ,3 -1. T oronto ON Canada M6G '
W( .$ 1a 7t . 19 85h te ,a t su 1 Sr t- .n 2 5 4 5 56 to h7f f 0u -l Ft 9 llh 0-e .,6c o - Nl 4G Yo .o r ) d Nd Sp Ye l t s a ets w 1e* a 0s r 1t e a ;n T n adg 8b a 0og 0ra -e i 9m 3we 2&in -rt 0e C 0h 7a 0bc n .ia g nl ,de in nd 1ga 1.r 5 4 wa 1 h56 i5- c%9 hA 2 l1 ds- io i s2 s4 c a2 f o5 r puo. rnm at tL iis cP aC a v ai i as l nt a dh b e bleW ao f uom r e tin o fr’ ud ls e r ps lD aa no hfy un rb it sno e tn go k o c Sr a ( lma eo #g nr 3a de 0i a)n 1, r,
e
h c l t ,
0 1
ates Universe Books, distributed by St. Martin’s, is from seem Hot Press 416 537-7850.
onA gRoo m of Her Own wall calendar with photos Toronto ON, Cana SOc
Volume 22 Number 2 57News
Bookstore
Feminist
before it releases in late sy
Calendars more fleshed-out) selection, order yet a
o
200 ing 800-999-4650. © Catal g
—— A perennial favorite from ¢
Call of
produce the magazine of the
Sacred Mysteries the Goddess
ol the D Sai nv di rn e F aem inine by aHelent Nej l son-RBesa ee d S fea ag tue rW eso m ma on u thC -a wl ae tn ed ra ir n g 200 r90 e9 c: i peF se ,a st Gs o dof a h
by a a: :
12"4 x 12 512.95 BK) | 56937-249-7 days, and lovely artwork. $9.95 1-999 hol
|-56937-248 9 ISBN 1-38 ae SageWoman, PO Box 641, Point Agee en
ISBN
707-882-2052. A 95468,
Syracuse Cultural Workers js again releasing
strong-selling Carry It On: Peace Calendar Bits
($12.95, 0-935155-27-9) as well as Special Da .
Century Political Posters ($8.95, 0-935155,9 a
Women Artists Datebook 2999 (i205
0935155-28-7). Syracuse Cultural Workers, po be
6367, Syracuse NY 13217; 315-474-1139.
Running Press is again producing their classic
Also available.16 more calendar titles Woman’s Day-by-Day Engagement Calendar 2099
Sg er ee et oi un rg lc ia sr tid ns g, uj no du er rna ls “, Carb do so ks, and more ($14.95). Running Press, 125 S. 22nd St., Philadel phia
PA 19103; 800-345-5359.
Printed on recycled paper with soy-based inks
Women’s Bodies, Women’s Health: The
intol@amberlotus com Tel (800) 3 Amber | PO Box 31538
www amberlotus com Fax: (415) 695-0300 San Francisco, CA 94131 Mind/Body Connection by Christine Northrup,
M.D., is a perpetual calendar filled with quotes that
will “provide sustenance for your body, mind, and
Last year we stocked the Sierra Club calendars* soul throughout the year.” Includes thoughts on get
— and sold about 75 of them. At the time, they were ting your history straight, sorting through your
available from Random House, but Sierra Club beliefs, respecting and releasing emotions, and leam-
moves around so much, the calendars might not be ing to honor your body. $11.95, 0-945923-48-1. Hay
available from there this year.
House, PO Box 5100, Carlsbad CA 92018;
Dto tS w -r hn o sd ea hm e mk ire ar eF tn i f son t .ra w p kl er cl $la Soy 1vn, .d ne 5 eu a 0co kun e ds ea s oe - P za a ie et nnc c o c a da el .r -t a e d Srsn Ya ny d oc e aa k ua kr w r- i mtr t ehh ,ie a e t l g ia hr 5$t tt 9 5e h 1ed 1m a p e len s Srln os co u t ot n d c te ra o t, hur z ea celS kn cn iya nc ock al u gye ne tc - d l ea t Rsn t h. dsh ed e .ia- l ,rt l I 8 y ma ae0 un sa d l0 tr r t- o i6 T a l c5 w nh o u4 i e g l- t i t5 h u c u1 nM a r2 b lo W a6 ot l, e u h ’e mn hMr od ao o no n dT en bo d i on t cg oi2 au o k0 lne 0 e)0 n. d nw a( Io r na t ,’v am s a e i ualn rsna p b lil a rea ipr rte p hu i o yan tr lat i b meoi .tt gn h ue ! a g eaa i hb enh o s a eul sa n e e
K i i t a h o
week-at-a-glance format, daily ato e
And More Calendars... daily moon phases and signs ol predic
ephemeridies, herbal lore, and astralee lee
By Teri Mae Rutledge
tions for each sign. This year's theme 1S ee pound:
fool, the zero, or the void). si Mother
1-890931-03-9, unbound: 1-890931-0 OR9 2
Tongue Ink, 37010 S. Snuffin Rd., Estacé
503-630-7848. miy tth e
jendat
Amber Lotus is publishing 2 @
e otra(
y Ant ear 2000 called Sacred Mysteries © tsP tral
Stanton pal”
eminine by Sandra Stanton. el, rlithy RO
of ancient goddesses (like Hera, Bright
58Feminist
—— tO Bookstore News
w joo nsm an a, nd Is ch ut la tr u, r ala nd a rtS ife ak cm tse .t ) ($w 1i 2t .h 95 , an 1i -m 5a 6l 9 37c -o 2m 4p 8a -n 9- , For your teen 9i :
Amber Lotus is publishing two other calendar taken rede he eine ‘ fade
iarc R A t ria mi a om ttl t ap id ue yu se gad t ls e n e sa t sl .d s HrZs a sy eer e ( lr $ oss o en ff 1 n p e 2 or .at r C9o h c Nf et 5e l,r c ei ta o ln iii 1c mG s ctn -l p oo st u 5 ne ad d 6 gr -nd e 9e oo Rie s 3s f dee 7 st de-d s e2f dm a 4 su t b 7 slo brf - h et yir 0 a c i so . s w c m )muo c o plm o fn at V oa le t iiu rr ln st nhrai u t: a lgs a helet y el d r GA TYT oh de S a y2 C '0 A0 sL0 L E EN$ OS6 D u6 A tB- R D I a Ly A oN ok ” W h ye to A dh snb ie ane t ne r d us se sdn rt as ids ei l i ofa t et w er re s s, s o lt p mio li1 of a sr tef s sM. sie t teae c Mla s es fA M t a yd ,u n e r s er ad yea avi (v mrn ln ry $ od eg , 1 — E r w 0 n ea.s gl9 a mu s e9sl ao l,a t de k bM hs r epc aet u snM 0 ir b -e tla 8e y$itt 3 o1l si 6 0( ue h o 2 0 we-n hsS s1a oa t8 mc y s oe 4 icsu pj e l7 a i e ll-is i aet 7 a onk nh ) re - n d t
Call of the Goddess calendar. Each SS think, doesn’t it?). She Who Laughs
image is accompanied by a moving ' Lasts, a mini wall calendar is perfect or
description. ($12.95, 1-56937-249-7.) Amber Lotus, PO office settings, where (we all know) the busy, stressed
Box 31538, San Francisco CA 94131; 800-345-0096. millennial lady could use a good chuckle, ($5.99
Available again from the folks at Workman: For 0-8362-8775-4.) The Life...Put Your Heart in It 2000
Women Who Do Too Much, the daily reflection cal-
endar, includes thoughts on spirituality, friends, Snake and Snake Productions
taking responsibility, and creativity and features
quotes from Maya Angelou, Oprah Winfrey, Willa 511 Scott King Rd, Durham NC 27713
Cather, and Margaret Fuller. ($9.95, 0-7611-1565-X.)
Also, the Medieval Woman Calendar for 2000 by The Ist Lunar card 2395950999090999 0d0a0v0b0b0S6
Sally Fox, text by Teresa Leslie, is lush and lovely as and still the best! ee
usual. Leslie writes of how women back in the day
| were as competent multitaskers as we are today: WOR cE LANE F000900000008
Women were writers, aristocrats, midwives, hunters, marked their cycles #6490000060006
and innkeepers. The artwork is drawn from original on my card for 22 0 S20 eQ N90 T00 i90 t00 Tb0 8
work from the Louvre, the Uffizi, and the Berlin State years now and have (8690500900900e
Library. $9.95, 0-7611-1520-X. Workman, 708 Broad-
come to depend on 02fs 0.0,9o990n0e9n0b0e0nn0e
way, NY NY 10003; 800-722-7202.
Hipness abounds in Geek Girl 2000 by Rose it. Still only $9.00 — [5999090900b0608
Cross from Ink Group. I’m not so sure about this per doz wholesale. [E22 °°"
humorous calendar, which features Geek Girl, a
“cyber funky babe who has a major attitude as well as Stock it all year for maximum
a great bod.” The cover has scantily clad Geek Girl success.
pointing her hair dryer at the Millenium Bug. Wish | I also wholesale my t-shirts of
could see this. It’s one of those that could go either Dancing, and my new
Goddesses
bW ua ty : it im gig hh tt ab le ex bt re rm ee all ly w bi at dt .y Ra en ad u tr hb ea n fe an cd taf lu on g,
it m s o e y d u ll a design, Owl's Moon, & many more.
description before you order! ($11.99, 1-876-55143-7.) All sizes: S- XXXXL.
Also from Ink Group are the Two Fat Ladies! The BBC D. Baylies
- Susan
duo, authors of two cookbooks and stars of their own website:
See it all at my
c Fao to k Li an dg esa nd idl eif es Tt oy wle rs dh so w, 00a 0r .e In t’o w f oe ua tt rur ae gd ouin T aw no www.snakeandsnake.com
i R a 2 s a s e s d
fattening as you'd expect; the catalog reprints their phone 5: 4 4é -2028 f 9a 1x 9: . 44 99 53 .. 7210
Cooking a Whole Beast on a Spit” recipe. ($11.99,
snakeandsnake.com
is Ink Group, PO Box 5517, Novato CA a e -mail: susan@
a ; 800-711-4465. July/August 1995
=
Volume 22 Number 2 59Bookstore News
Feminist
Calendar encourages plann ing ladies to ado eju st H1 u-5 n6 t8 i9 n4 g- t7 o9 n4 -1 B) e. a ch Av Ca Al a 9n 2c 6h 49e ;, 891 05 g2 6 92 8 : ipeling Li
Desk
that with a charming illustrahons sa 1 ad stay For sports lovers: Tom Boyz’ Wo 421,
entle reminders to have fun, enjoy HIE; , 2000. $12.95, 0-9646697-3.9
($10.99, 0-8362-8777-0.) | 4260 25th St, +t
ighthearted. 0
Something to Do the Whole Year a 415-821-2178. 4;
Through to Bring Out the Best in Hey, lesbians! There are ee
You, is an activity calendar for bg! calendars to choose from this CW more
children based on her Something to many of them seem to be ee OK,
Ras
Do books. ($8.99, 0-8362-8773-8.)
The Girlfriends women are releasing rey airbrushed thing from the camel
another Girlfriends daily calendar é photographers, but ther Our
for 2000. Based on Girlfriends, The Try ones here that sound acne tiny
The G-Gallery has a line aoe
Girlfriends Keepsake Book, and Girl- ¥
friends Talk About Men, this calendar and gay-themed calendars. Allure 2000: TheB ‘e,
celebrates the invisible bonds and enduring ties of Sunny Bak isa full-color photography calendagetm
girlfriends everywhere. ($10.99, 0-8362-0564-2.) with Bak’s work. Bak’s shots capture Passion, inti
Andrews McMeel, 4520 Main St. Ste. 700, Kansas City macy, and romance. ($12.95, 1-892465-19-1,) Intaate
MO 64111; 800-826-4216. Moments by Debranne Cingari reflects love, friend.
The Girl Thing calendar is a photo-album calen- ship, family, commitment, and the joy of lesbian
dar with “wild” borders, “crazy” patterns created just parenthood. ($12.95, 1-892465-10-8.) Photographer
for teens. ($15.99, 1-56894-807-7.) Also available: Judy Francesconi has created Passion 2000. The pub-
Avalanche’s U.S. Women’s Soccer 2000 ($11.99, lisher copy has lots of exclamation points and words
like “sizzle” and “heat.” Black and white images with
red and silver accents “promise to ignitea fever inany
woman or man who lays eyes on them.” Naiad for
WE MOON ‘00 your wall, ladies. ($12.95, 1-892465-11-6.) Also, Best
of Judy Francesconi 2000 is an oversized black and
r white photography calendar highlighting
Francesconi’s work. ($22.95, 1-892465-21-3.) Here's
ae
two more that I haven’t seen yet (again, please check
Hioss We’Moon ’00 the catalog before you order): Tender Romance 2000
by Ellis Studios is reproduced paintings of the female
ISBN: ee 9 form ($12.95, 1-892465-16-7), and Visible for ®
aie ‘ 22 (lay-flar Change by Lorraine Inzalaco collects paintings that
binding) “celebrate the beauty and power of the feminine
physique and spirit” ($12.95, 1-892465-17-5):
A best-selling astrological Moon calendar and More... G-Gallery, available from Bookpeople.
Also, 10 Percent is back with theit high BP°
*W We e’ ’M Mo oo on 0 f0 U thn eib ound is f or tho se who :w ant to customize
n o r ;
Ne* a ts hu isp p Pl Eem ent Lf aor dar wep a Par cke cePo ssibi ali etie s ei dn ic tl iu od ne ,: c “co an pt tr ui rb eu st io tn hes : essDeenscier e of byf emTalhee rebseaa utyL aonriete e: j
w r Po r er]
Motuer Toncue Ink—ry - Or our catalog. 8 e] de rich sensualitSyr.y , She and her moedee l “(eixp4 95
37010 S. Snuffin Road, Es R LOTH YEAR e mysteries of the female persone | ine
ph: 503-630-7848 o, Wen” OF 97023 USA 1-886888-51-5.) Moments Together by pert
or toll free: 877-693-666, : : women
¢-mail: wemoon@teleport. ait Cingari collects romantic moments between” nate
both editions: $14.95 « 5 x8” 5 ($14.95, 1-886888-44-2.) Russell Bush's ee,
‘ 24 pp *@® Men) Affectionate Women is a photographic one
| | offemale couples. ($14.95, 1-886888-45-0.) OPS
July/August 1999 available from Bookpeople. ei
o
60 Volume2 2 Nu") Feminist
Bookstore
News
rt sMusie
News
bs
By Susan Frazier Swango/Candye
Kane, “I’m 200 pounds of
Goldenrod Music fun/T’ve got enough for everyone.” Candye’s a diva for
the 21st century. A sexual libertine sent to free us from
Wonderful women artists, soundtracks, compi- our hang-ups, forgive us our sins, and just plain puta
lations, comedy discs, and a songbook — everything smile on our faces by crooning, “If you're feeling wrong
you could ask for can be found under the music tree tonight, I’ll make it right.” And who, in their right mind,
this summer. With festival season in full gear (and would turn down an invitation like that? Candye
continuing through September in many parts of the describes one of her shows: “It’s like a revival meeting
country), it’s a good time to highlight music in your in an X-rated bookstore parking lot.” Sire 31028.
store. Capitalize on this by creating a display and/or Mirrorball/Sarah McLachlan. It seemed destined
holding a sale that features the artists performing at to happen. This “best of” CD features powerful live
the festival of your choice, with a sign saying “Can’‘t performances of 14 of Sarah’s songs that span her
make it to the (fill in the blank) festival this year? Take entire catalog and career, including classics from her
the music home instead!” five-time platinum, multiple Grammy-winning
Women's Music
The Falling Places/Edie Carey. A listener once
described Edie’s music as “white girl” soul. A
GLAMA (Gay and Lesbian American Music Awards)
nominee, Carey’s style is reminiscent of Ani
DiFranco, with a mix of Ferron and Joni Mitchell
tossed in for good measure. Though she may be
accused of being one of the “Ani wannabes,” her style
is her own. Her clever lyrics on the inconsistencies of
romance fall closer to wry humor than they do to
Ani’s angst. This Brooklyn-based singer/songwriter
isjust starting to do national tours. Get on board early
with this one! APP 2426.
Party Doll and Other Favorites / Mary Chapin
Carpenter. In her tenth year with Columbia Records,
ary was asked to create a greatest hits package. "In youth we learn; in agew e understand
After much deliberation, this is the result. Yes, it has
hits like “I Feel Lucky” and “Shut Up and Kiss Me,” Marie Ebner-Eschenbach
but Mary has taken it a step further. She includes two October Rose
new tracks and several live versions of old favorites as Productions 36073497979
Well as different versions of other hits from benefit www.lindasongs.com
8006346044
albums, Soundtracks, and special projects. Sure to Distributed by Ladyslipper
Please old and new fans alike! Columbia 68751.
Volume 22 Number) July/August 1999
61Feminist Bookstore News
album, Surfacing. She will be touring once again with rr eo cot os r- dt io n- gr o hc ak s me ocl re ec ti oc f a a mal ini stra eas m . f a Styles, e Te his
MLi a>l ri t yh D a MF ua ci g Lr h at u9 e9 g. r lA ir ofi s t La i ar k1 / e9 M s0 a4 r0 e. y aMc Lau agh l ei n a. tC eelt ic artist v aIi nno ddu i s g o er rGe ic ro l sr sd i ran eng nd, thAa sln ,ad n iss h oe M o eri vis es rsb ee ,ti n tg e a oe ee th ta n hh ee rr t o Stytr lh ee
h n t
h t g h w 9 t o
ab I rrr eei ld ag one rd is g io nnt a h le t h is ag na dbp e au ptb rie oft vul iw , de ee en v o a cm a pty li av te f oa rl mb um f. or T hh ee r s lo un sg hs , s Fu lon yf n il g ni w gn r c ih Fti ii sn n hg g 6h 7o 7r .n e e ms at iy n sa nd d ea er pe l yi nsi pg eh rt sf ou nl a la . a ane W di ttyr p, oe ev te H ia e cl y ,
multilayered vocals. The arrangements are embel-
lished by the addition of guitars, keyboards, cello, Sunday in Nandua/KarenSavoc a. Her Musici
and uilleann pipes, giving an overall soundscape that hard to label, but once heard, lis
teners will be
is almost visual. Gourd 401. hooked! Savoca, who plays conga an
Hold Me Close/Marieann Meringolo. A sion, has been working with Pet i d other :P ercus-
GLAMA nominee for best debut artist of the year, mid-80s. Mcoisoiiting folk, ecmeae a the
Marieann is a powerful vocalist. With shades of k.d. even funk elements, the songs range from ae : ee
lang and Barbara Streisand in her vocals, Marieann to Go,” a lovely, mystical ballad, and “That's 3 Ne
nonetheless has a unique voice, intense passion, and Remember,” a gentle tribute to someone who's Mt |
sensitivity. She has the natural ability to find new and lost, to the snappy accusative “You Just Don’tGet
inspiring ways to transform songs like “People Will and the funky rocker “Here They Come,” a prickl
Say We're in Love” or “Chances Are” into her own litany of global concerns. Well suited for ee!
style. There are many classics here for a vocalist of her play. AL 31597.
talent and range, as well as some originals that sound Three Wishes/Erica Wheeler. Produced by
like classics. GCORD 1. Steven Miller (Dar Williams’ End of the Summer)
Les Sampou/Les Sampou. Les’ new release is a Three Wishes broadens Erica’s musical palette with
CREATIVE
MUSIC...
CREATIVE WOMEN
THE OFFERING _
OBSIDIAN
Mary Youngblo: 2 -
BUTTERFLY
_
OFFERING is an originaalnd vibrant flute
Gomez,
Alice
Madalyn
_ with
~
Blanchett
_
“and Marilyn Rife |
_ by men, one _ Alice Gomez's newest release and Silver Wave deout
woman has found
the fluteto be her _ is inspired by ancient music of North, Central, and”
_ Instrument, _ GSo ou mt eh 'A sm er ori ic ga i. We ma ev li on dig sr ,h y Oth bm ss diof nt he ua tn tc ee rs ft lo yr s 'W 2!
creating z na l e i a B 3 °
| 9 Prayer of liquid fully spreads its wings and flies, echoing her best
selling aloum Flute Dreams. Re
‘ en t,” -EXPLORE
JNDIAN COUNTRY
_ DISTRIBUTED BY GOLDENROD, LADYSLIPPE:
MUSIC DESIGN AND MANY OTHERS: —
July/August 1999
62Feminist Bookstore
News
nd lush band sound. Musicians include
a stately a
sarict extrordinaire Larry Campbell and mem-
oe b Dylan's road band. Erica’s songs of life r Earthli
pers of Bo one wrong shine in the company of her
and e songs by James McMurtry and Bill A Green Spirituality Songbook
ee With Three Wishes, Erica Wheeler has Complled & edited by Julie Forest Middleton
Pecomed into one of folk’s most distinctive
The songbook for
singer-songwriters. Signature Sounds 71250. the women's spiritual moveme
Comedy 400 pages ¢ 433 songs « 35 illustrations « 8.5x11
words, music, chords, arrangements
Neurotic by Nature/ Michele Balan. Leave it to 50 pages of text, source material, biographies,
Uproar to make the world a better place by recording contributors' marketplace
the humor of lesbian comics and letting us all laugh "How to Read Music in 9 Concentrated Lessons"
along! Michele’s played the comedy and festival fully indexed * a major reference work
circuit — now folks will have the chance to take a bit
of her home. Uproar 3801. "Every time | go by the table | am pulled over by The Book and have
to sit down tor a few more minutes. | surprise the dogs by bursting
Kitten with a Wit/Elvira Kurt. Elvira wowed the into song. This is THE definitive work on women's spirituality music.”
audience at the Michigan Womyn’s Music Festival — Jeanne Hardy, Washington
and has played most of the major women’s festivals.
She was featured on Gay from Las Vegas, but this is her
Emerald Earth Publishing 888/333-2929
first solo release. Uproar 3800. Distributed by Koen, New Leaf, Ladyslipper
ISBN 0-9663715-2-6 $27
Coundtroacks
Xena: Warrior Princess Volume 4. More Xena
Can You Afford Not to Call?
episodes have resulted in more Xena soundtrack
material, and fans are clamoring for it. In this, the (800) 634-6044
fourth recording of music from Xena, there are 70
minutes of music created by soundtrack composer
The Most Extensive Selection
Joseph LoDuca. Hey — it’s Xena. Simply put it in your
store where folks can find it, and it will sell itself! of Recordings by Women
Vares 6031,
Compilations Feminist/(Women’s Music # Comedy # World
Fish Tree Water Blues. This group of innovative Drumming/Percussion + Rock/Pop + Spoken
= rieans led by Willie Dixon came together to help
Alternative # Soundtracks + Men's Music
ae fe word about the importance of things like
ee mon, ancient forests, and clear water in the Blues + Spirituality ¢ Jazz + Classical
Piet pees Blues was the chosen genre of
a elp convey the “facts of life” about our Country + International + and much more...
the ee A portion of the proceeds will benefit
Sierra C] ee Legal Defense Fund (formerly the ADYSLIPPER MUSIC
|
enough ‘ Legal Defense Fund). If all of that isn’t
Ane ‘Ani Difranco happens to be on this one,
6 wath Tracy Nelson, Etta James, and Loudon Nationally Distributing Music By Women Since 1976
emwright IIL. Bullseye Blues 9618.
V July/August 1999
Slume 22 Number 2 63Bookstore News
Feminist
MUSIC. . . Lilith Fair, Volume II and Volume
ie Because
just one double-CD set could never do it
Justice, the
came out with two more single discs to
Capture the
essence of this popular summer festival. Volume ]j
AAMAA ASAA includes Shawn Colvin, Emmylou Ha
Strawberries, Sinead O’Connor, Angeli Tris, Wild
q tu re ckK si djo
“sideline”
The only and Queen Latifah. Volume II] has a
Me’Shell Ndegeocello, Holly Cole, Luscio
us Jackson,
you can dance to! Indigo Girls, K’s Choice, Suzanne Vega, and Bonnie
Raitt. Lilith Fair founder Sarah McLachan is also
ALAMAS ALAS ALA featured on both albums. Arista 19079 and 19081,
The Silverwolf Story. Silverwolf is a label dedj-
(plus it sells great and cated to quality folk music and Well-produced
recordings. And Silverwolf is blessedly free of the
makes your sales staff happy!)
bias against women artists in their compilations. This
recording opens with “Coming Up” by Ani Difranco,
Why call Goldenrod
Other contributors to this release include: Caroline
Aiken with the Indigo Girls, Catie Curtis, Dar
for your music order?
Williams, Odetta, Wendy Bucklew, and Michael
Veitch with Shawn Colvin. The cover is not exciting,
but the music is fabulous! Silverwolf 1013.
Vv Fast Service
Women of Kerrville, Volume II. This compila-
Vv Knowledgeable Staff tion follows closely in the wake of the hugely
successful Women of Kerrville. Includes all the per-
Vv Fun to Talk To!
formers at the Kerrville Folk Festival, many of them
Vv Demos for In-Store Play folk favorites: The Burns Sisters, Dee Carstensen,
Barbara Kessler, Cosy Sheridan, Betty Elders, Katy
Vv Same Day Shipping Moffatt, Sally Fingerett, Anne Hills, Pele Juju, and
many others. A fabulous women’s folk compilation.
Vv Great Posters/Display
Silverwolf 1014.
Vv Large selection of
Available Again
Gay/Lesbian
Music,
Women’s Give It All Up and Permanent Happiness/
Music,
Zrazy. These first two albums from this wonderful
Dance,
Na mt oi rve e, Celtic, I Pr eis rh ad nu eo ta re Haon pc pe na eg sa sin isa v ta hi el a Ib rl ie in et rh si is onc ou on ft r ey. W ee e
m n i
Folk and . s h v e
Everybody, which was released last year through ae
and is no longer available. Give It All Up: 2tazy "™~
CALL COLLECT! Permanent Happiness: Zrazy 1000.
Cris Willixenson Songbook. Finally, a a
517-484-1712 o ff vW oa rii tt ei ng s, nC gr si s’ frs oo mn gb heo ro k firh sa s sib xe en lbr uer me sl ea (s ie ‘ bd oi on kg
(9:00am
to 6:00pm EST) a o t a n c
lr o~ y PG 1 h3o o1 n0l e :d e T 5n u 1r 7r n -eo 4r 8d 4 -1S 7tM 1re 7u e ts , ic, L ansI in nc g . MI 48906 gw“ i rC t ah h pa hn spg )ie ar n w o il a l n and md a t kh g ee u itC a hh era r n cg sh oe o nd r gd” ss) a(t a ch s c i es w s e si l iln b - ld eae s p tt l ooh t s r e o kt e .w h o
Fax: 517-484-177)
love her music. One large improvement over 0
July/August 1999 inal is the spiral binding. WMR SBCW.
2
64 Volume 22 NumberFeminist Bookstore
News
Video
News
women in this film fight back. They struggle and rage
against conflicts women face under all types of govern-
ments, in all times. Available from Wolfe Video.
Girlstown. Written by the cast in a few
stream-of-consciousness
sessions, this film tells the
Even for more discriminating movie-watching story of teenage girls coming of age. Brilliantly acted,
" lesbian/feminist ladies, there are quite a lot of movies out in it sheds light on issues such as teenage pregnancy,
| the wide world these days. Every month, Wolfe Video sends suicide, and date rape. The friendships portrayed in
this film serve as a testament to female friendships
| make choices from the — how do I say this delicately everywhere. Funny, disturbing, poignant, and an
| —chick-flislcuksh pile? We asked movie watcher and video overall great movie. Available from Naiad Video.
| expert Liz Wermcrantz for her recommendations of those Paris Was a Woman. A fascinating and riveting
| great movies that no feminist/lesbian video proprietress account of the early decades of this century in Paris.
| should be without. —TMR Expanding upon the idea that Paris was always
referred to in female form, the film showcases the
A not-quite-complete list of some of my favorite lives of several truly creative and inspirational
| feminist and/or lesbian films: women, records the early transformation of
All Over Me. Totally cool, refreshing movie bookselling into an art form, and, overall, shows the
} about young women living in Hell’s Kitchen, NY, importance of literature and the arts in the develop-
| brought to us by the producers of The Incredibly True ment of culture and humanity. It offers us glimpses
Adventure of Two Girls in Love. Exploring the blurry
into the lives of Gertrude and Alice, Djuna Barnes,
| lines of a relationship between a young dyke and her Berenice Abbot, Sylvia Beach, and many more impor-
| somewhat-straight best friend, the movie captures tant women in our histories. It’s a great movie for
| the sense of naive promise of a first relationship, everyone: educational, interesting, and inspirational,
| Something most of us have experienced. The young a welcome enhancement for women’s history classes
women deal with a lot of hard-core issues like drugs, or just a good flick for a weekend get-together. It is
| murder, and absent parents as they try to make sense full of discussion of bookselling, writing, art, lesbian-
_ Of their world. It is funny, poignant, upsetting; you ism, feminism and much more. Not to be missed.
‘Won't be the same after viewing it. Available from Available from Wolfe Video.
| Wolfe Video and Naiad Video.
__ Born in Flames. This futuristic film was first
| Teleased in 1983 but has been in moratorium for many
| years. Recently rereleased, it is so right-on in so many
Ways. Not only is it an amazingly written, acted, and
directed film, it drives its message home ina way that is Out of the Past. Using the underlying notion that
interesting, provocative, and enlightening. It’s set ten inclusion of gays and lesbians in history creates a refer-
Years after the social democratic war of liberation, and ence point for young people, this film portrays the story
We get the chance to look back on what has happened. of the courageous young woman Kelli Peterson as well
as several other gays and lesbians in history. As you
ses, we witness the typical compromises that might remember, Kelli started a gay-straight alliance at
See Videos, page 88.
iwt hen a political party comes to power. The strong
July/August 1999Feminist Bookstore News
HIGHLY ACCLAIMED NEW RELEASEs
—@e =8FROM RAVEN RECORDING
RAVEN. RAVEN:
RECORDING neconeN
FEATURING BORIS GREBENSHIKOV r Le ) y Q
By GABRIELLE ROTH & THE MIRRORS Featuring
Boris GREBENSHIKOV
{ a hf Take the world beat percussion and music
Q FZ of Gabrielle Roth & The Mirrors...
D Add Tibetan Buddhist chants sung by
C
GaBRIELLE ROTH 8 te M R se
&
A ‘ 2¥ legendary Russian rocker Boris Grebenshikov...
C
6
12 Seek REFUGE.
-
V
M
“A feast for the ears and spirit.” — RHYTHM MUSIC MAGAZINE
“Talk about a moving experience - REFUGE is truly a fantastic album
that must be heard!” — Liz Doan, MUSIC DESIGN
«Awesome, ...extremely powerful and trance inducing” — CONSCIOUS CHOICE
“The album is a transcendental experience, and a high point for the Mirror’s unfailing experience.”
aeras e te
— NAPRA REVIEW
“The ravishing ecstasy of Refuge will make your Buddha soul smile.”
fe ae A: 233
— AFIM MUSIC MIX
a By CHLOE GoopcHiLp
“SURA is a profoundly inspirational listening experience.
Frankly, | have never been so affected. | could not give any album
a higher recommendation - musically or spiritually. A truly astounding
CD work of art, production, and devotion.” — NAPRA ReView
&
CA “The human voice has been described as the very personification of Heaven. a
-125 N SUo Rw Ah .e .r .e si .s th Gi os odi cde ha ldb ’et st er nsd ti rs up ml ea ny te d poth sa sn sC sh el so é suG co ho d ic nh ci rl ed d’ is lea we inspiring new ©™
M i i e b
MV —ve rs Ca ati rl pi et y Nt oha ct eit se Mr ave gs zito er edefine what it is that the voice is capable of.”
t m a n
“,.one o f the most crystalli; n e voi; c es ever recorded. This impeccable album is a celebration of the human voici ena .. ”
aloo tons — New Age Retailer
---@ voice defying gender and categorization, soaring beyond mortal bounds.” ine
— Rhythm Music Magaz!
RAVEN”
RECORDING
Availab] €h t frt omp : a/ ll / Mw aw jow r. r Da isv tre in bur te orc so r ord i can llg . 80c 0o -m
7 6-RAVEN
July /August 1999
66F Seminist
S Book Estore N Ee Wws
S
TH Oidelines
bumperstickers are in color, taking the guesswork out
of ordering. Choose from over 300 button designs and
75 posters. Imports include sarongs from Bali
Bumperstickers pouches from Guatemala, hemp hats from Roieenial
and clay flutes from Peru. Mugs, magnets, notecards,
Donnelly/Colt — Our 24th year. We design, postcards, recycled stationery, calendars, and much
make, and distribute hundreds of different progres- more. 2916 E. Lake St., Minneapolis MN 55406;
sive messages on buttons, bumperstickers, postcards, 800-258-8579. See ad this page.
tshirts, posters, labels, and more. Plus we offer fast,
_ quality custom printing of your designs/messages at
Buttons
| the lowest prices anywhere. Reach us 9-5 EST,
| Monday-Friday at 860-455-9621 or fax 24 hours a day Ephemera has outrageous humor, famous
at 800-553-0006. Write Box 188-FBN, Hampton CT women’s quotes, campy lurid paperback art, colorful
06017, email <donco@neca.com>, or visit <www Hindu goddesses, Xena, and Electra Woman on
.donnellycolt.com>. See ad page 80. buttons, magnets, stickers, and key chains. These
sidelines are an inexpensive way for your customers to
Northern Sun — The one-stop shopping choice express themselves and have fun at the same time.
preferred by retailers in search of quality feminist, Request our full-color catalog with many display
political, GLBT, environmental, and multicultural options. Ephemera, PO Box 490, Phoenix OR 97535;
products. We carry over 200 t-shirt designs, including email <ephemera@mind.net>, phone 800-537-7226 or
the Jane Evershed and Tom Tomorrow lines. Our 541-535-4195, fax 541-535-5016. See ad page 68.
SRTHERN:
OD KOO XK
2916 E LAKE ST - WMPeLSl lMN- _ b55e40h6 av{ ed women
T-Shirts
Buttons
history
Stickers rarely make
Coffee Mugs
Posters
Notecards ¢@ Calendars Laurel Thatcher Ulrich
Call for free catalog
| O8 O0 K0- 25 O8 O-8 X5 79 OXw ww O. On Kor th Qer In Ksu Gn H. Oco Mm QOn Ksm O@s Icc K. One St
O
July/August 1999
67“One Day, ~~ Well,
“It’s Never An Army of we This Day
Too Late To Be Gray-Haired
wR Was A
Women May
What You Might Total Waste
Quietly Take Over
Have Been. The Earth.” Of Makeup
S-Gtlaoirniean
-George Eliot
STICKERS & KEYCHAINS Ephemera, PO Box 490, Phoenix . ,OR 97535 800-537-79)
Chicks Kick Ass: HOW COME ALL THE COOL eid7"{)b'ssq; o y iain
GIRLS ARE LESBIANS? (faa
tyL SS g
é Saal
Donnelly/Colt — Our 24th year. We design, We’Moon ‘00 is a bestselling Womyn-id
make, and distribute hundreds of different progres- appointment book, astrological moon caleni
sive messages on buttons, bumperstickers, postcards, earth-centered spiritual guide, and multicult
t-shirts, posters, labels, and more. Plus we offer fast, handbook in natural rhythm. Now available in No!
quality custom printing of your designs/messages at editions: We’Moon ‘00 (1-890931-03-9) whicis h bound |
the lowest prices anywhere. Reach us 9-5 EST, Mon- witha durable lay-flat binding and We'Moon Unbound
day-Friday, at 860-455-9621 or fax 24 hours a day at ‘00 (an unbound edition, 1-890931-04-7). $14.9 |
800-553-0006. Write Box 188-FBN, Hampton CT August. Mother Tongue Ink, 37010 SE Snuffin Ra, )
06017, email <donco@neca.com>,
or visit Estacada OR 97023; 503-630-7848 or toll-free I
<www.donnellycolt.com>.
See ad page 80. 877-693-6666, email: <wemoon@teleport.com>.
available from B&T, BP, Ingram, Koen, Ladyslippet:
Calendars
New Leaf, Samuel Weiser, Small Changes, and oe |
Works in the U.S. Available from Airlift . =
BaylieS sn ak hae s pan rd o duS cn ea dk e t he Pr Lo ud nu ac rt io Phn as s e — CarS du sa fn o r D 2. 2 aD de m pp as ge e y 60.( Canada), and Neue Erde (Germany? a~ a i i
\
oddessit
The ‘00 Lunar Calendar: Dedicated to the G the |
Her Many Guises — “...the Grandmother © 6X.
Goddess calendars...combining beauty W? zine
919-544-999 7a 2 d the new owl’s, moon shir5 t. Phone: of information,” says SageWoman Maga pe
annual edition! Features 23 artists, ee e
13 graceful lunations, definitive gon ae, an
lunar year-at-a-glance, complete inst
Volume 2®
68Feminj
vellent pibliography. 32 pages, wall calendar 11" x enormously in triguing tore News
exc recycle d paper, soy-based inks, printed in the al Our Icons al
e Retail still only $20, 1-877920-10-X, Nancy Fw
1S: ditor. Cover by Jamie Hogan. Luna Press,
a 15511, Kenmore Station, Boston MA 02215:
617-427-9846. See ad page 57.
The Power of Women Calendar by Jane Evershed —
“The New Millennium and Beyond...” this
Subtitled Jane Iris Designs,
‘calendar celebrates the power, wisdom, and beauty of Nature jewelry for 17
women. Jane believes the new millennium is an Kindred Spirits, Tool
opportunity to take a wild, heartfelt journey into our
innermost lives. Ronnie Sellers Productions pub-
lishes 48 calendar titles in a variety of themes and is
leased to introduce a new line of boxed notecards.
Fora free catalog call 1-800-MAKE-FUN or write to us
at PO Box 71, Kennebunk ME 04043. See ad page 69.
2000 Carry It On Peace Calendar features Iroquois
artist Nancy Yaki’s work on the cover. Other themes:
Zapatista’s Revolutionary Law for Women, bicycle
activism, the Mike Alewitz Iraq mural, the 25th anni-
versary of the end of the Viet Nam war,
community-supported agriculture, people’s history,
and more. Women Artists Datebook showcases work by
Anna Oneglia and over 30 others. Beautiful, practical,
spiral-binding, smudge-free paper. New Perpetual Cal-
endar sums up the 20th century with Twelve Great
Political Posters. All union-printed, real recycled paper.
Syracuse Cultural Workers —Tools for Change. FBN
special discount. Call Donna 315-474-1132, ext. 102;
toll-free fax 877-265-5399. See ad page 38.
a Tabori, & Chang — Publishers of calen-
7 ae of unusually high quality and beauty. The Power of Women
Be oy 200 Return of the Goddess: An Engagement Cal- Calendar & Notecards
scr-c06 + is back and gorgeous as ever. ($17.95, by Jane Evershed
Woman’ -4.) Also offering two journals for women:
1679.7 sae of Hopes, Dreams, & Desires ($15.95,
1-56906-11444 -0
1555670-599 and One Day at a Time Journal ($15.95, Calendar Retail: $11.95 © [SBN;
800.939 -4). 115 West 18th St., NY NY 10011; Notecard Retail: $12.95 for 16 car ds, 4 ea. of 4 images
calendars,
-0070, See ad page 56. Call for catalogs of
notecards and greeting cards
boxed
Candle s PRODUCi TC ITI OO NN SS, , INC.
SELLERS
RONNIE
foe r y ala ]E Ae WIc eo ns h avD ee v io lt li uo mn ia nl a tiC na gn d Ele vs e. r ydA a y ma Is ct oe nr s WEB: PH wO wN wEP .:O c . a l8 eB 0 no 0x d- a6 r7 2 s1, 5 i t- e3K .3e cn 8 on 6 me . b un * Fk A, EX - : M AM IE 2 L0 :] 0 rS4 s0 e p4 @d3 r svp-a e
neuroses. Filled with heavy symbolism and July/August 1999
"ohne 22 Number 2 69ews
Fe Pmi On ii P ess t 6B 1o 9-o 4k s 9s w 1t a -xo i r t 8e S a 2p li 7r .B iy t c olC oa r nd cl ae t alG oo gGd o de ats s 8e 0s 0. - 8 89z 2 P 8 8l -e 5a 6s 8e 7 cal ol r pah hna odn d o- :p ii nno s 4sl pp 1i ii 6s; rr -h aa e t 3d i o -n 8aa 1ln d pa o or rei mvi e.e s ilCa| lw li ] <i t bh ra ¢ O nr dp ay o o ius sr Na ‘m ea solt a o2
£ 0 t 5 7 5 1 m a e t
ax u F ad page 42.
.
=
Candleholders ‘Aaah eee Cards eS
—
—
in yoO uru to l f i fet ?h e OD uri c voe tir ve. iS i is e tes mah sa do arw e jc ua ss tt er ts h: e meaniB nr gu fs uh l , Da spn ic re i tuaa e gr eetia ngg can ra dt si ,v e j, o urP nr aO lv so ,c at cai ly e n,
n thi ig nh gt -li fg oh r ts, y ouw !a ll W es co hn ace vs e, eae e hf ae vm ea le p roi vm ea ng es to bt eo | d Ta hr is c, h m Na hg atn et Hs a, n h ca cn ad ll ee ns d, a r,a n jd o urm no ar le ,. anPo de t Cr ay r dsof . R Lu im vei pa in ,g
Uboc u oh r to e ho ms oe ts het f Or wpo hom o. p l u el se ea aS lr e a 1 ate e nm d L retae i ela dse s acy i n pa ar e ne era av ail i; sva ieb t l ee u sa aa tt | SoI L nn ao t c ue k t sn s h at e. i o iEn C td a ogr e ec ; al o j Cfe o An ut rd h nea ar 9lS . 4o u 9la n B 5! d r ;jj u o su hl ro n 8t a 0s l D 0. a no 5f cS 3et 1,ec o Pppo hl 1 4e 0n 40 5St ,u L Eef bvf i b n te Wi ib n edy e, e R Li Ae v1 vn . oi.. ee n y,e a
l 6 - - 7 b DS
<www.candleholder.com>.
See aa pag <www.brushdance.com>.
See ad page 40.
Touch and Be Touched has produced female
° r Design in Paradise — Unique, contempor
imagery.in ms Ye ae an es re a greeting eas from my origina l designs. Artistic “stick
maa ae ae erie ‘d 2 “Story Teller,” “Drum- people” designs on interesting, bright watercolor
ee ee sa “i Mamma f “Bamily,” backgrounds are simple yet meaningful. Greeted
ae erage 3 - a fee to aden any altar insert is removable (like a post-it note) if customer pre-
ocr aer A ae season : Each miniature is fers a blank card. Greetings can be customize—ads k
Lighten Up!
The Tacky Texans are a colorful
assemblage of humanity
4 Working together in Seattle,
errr Washington. There are actually
ees more than 3 people, most aren't
from Texas, but they are
definitely all tacky. And
they design a product that
is so hot it melts. Literally!
Everyday Icons® a line of
Satirical prayer candles
that make fun, functional,
and affordable gifts for © Festee Rie
coworkers,
dysfu nctional ee =
family members, or anyone
THREE Tw Hho R En Eee ds T Ato C‘ Kli Ygh ten T Eu Xp. A NS Sa de | Se rv LTRA eWL eER Park PAPER Dous =
Tr y W 1hi 0t 2e 8 Tr Fa ish r sto f ACo vr ep nor ua ete SAm oe ur ti hc a” = ~~
TEXANS Tacky Catalog Hotline
Seattle, WA 98134
(888) 621-8599
July/August 1999 i per 2
70Feminist
ails. 36 designs — includes romance, encourage- Bookstore
‘ | for det News
We | im re mtn uht , .d ay a,s y h™o Pl p aia rd ft a arh y dee.y , eR ,e t tf a ar i Plli O:e n ,$ d 1 1s . 0h c9 0i 5 7,p , w oh ro o Wlu iwet ns id a sto l teeo :r -u$ S1 za a; c t n ei o mv oi mt oii rn Ne eis C,-, You [Br acioC usu st bo eam e ar s iw iti tl cl b ue Proud to
p s a c a o g a l l r S i M «: B c h
| m i n i s 4 , o n l od e
| “ 336-725-4927. See ad page 74. = $Lontetigen
z BLT ]ruthseeker
Espresso Press — Postcards and notecards with P = e) = [Clonticent
he ort stories and illustrations. 20 different cards, nr
| printed on 100% post-consumer waste recycled [H]etiraiser
i“ per. Subjects include women, vegetables, gods and
“Goddesses, spelling, bathing, squirrels, fashion,
| desks, transportation, and more. New: The History of
Pantyhose in America. Collection of humorous stories
| by different authors contained in cardstock envelope
embling pantyhose packaging. Free catalog avail-
e. PO Box 2042, Madison WI 53701; 608-249-8897,
| Web site<www.espressopress.com>. See ad page 75.
| Women’s Mysteries is a collection of eight distinct
- greeti g cards from Arbrador Arts. “Peaceful, bright, tees/sweats, totes, aprons, caps, and
found, and devoid of cliche.” Each card is a repro- a line of Cards that really say something!
ction of an original egg tempera painting by Lora Outrageously funny and inspirational
rador, award-winning painter. Price: $10/dozen Fax 503-230-0639
_ wholesale (deeper discounts for bulk orders), with a
Suggested retail price of $1.95 or above. Samples for brochure/whlse price list
lable. 415-824-7668, email <arbrador@crl.com>; Saige Street Studio
tador Arts PO Box 460265, San Francisco CA 6 free "I'm proud to be a Bitch" buttons
46. See ad page 73.
with every order
i Culture Q Connection has a growing line of
| #sbian and gay movies and is the exclusive source for
| Gender Benders, a greeting card line with over 90 dif-
| ferent lesbian and gay cards. Our video releases —Tools for Change. Call Donna 315-474-1132, ext.
f | el Significant Others, which includes a Chery] 102, toll-free fax 877-265-5399. F BN special discount.
1 Gs ee Short, and Different Strokes starring Dana Plato See ad page 38.
|g a the 70s TV sitcom “Diff’rent Strokes.” Call us at
| ae 942-5421 toll-free or 520-888-5421; email: Kenita’a blank notecards feature the pee
|eS glvid fos@cultureqconnection.com>, Web site: work of artist Dana Squires, whose pee 4
| ‘w nw ewe ac lu .l t ntu ir ce aq gdc rsHo on etln iie nadc t kyi fo oen s(. c eo sm > i. eS re cae aa nd ip saa ilg ne .7 6 w. wvIei en tgs hp ni dr se cd lab onoy sgh ce er te rhx dip ine nr ai oe mn eoAc e is l coi yfv ei en lAg e, as dh e e nea
K w ea e : gca C ah fr ts mwt m hs / lC dah n u k a h St/ l is l l i a en tg b, la em bd n S oo u t he e a w s t e ss n a r. T h f r c si c r ga , s > c eto et v4
| a r , p a g o e l v e b e e d i ih a - a s d k s n e c d e p e
| n
o r o t
e r y g x
“holig é@ 6" c Pa or sd tsd c,e s ri dtg o sn o .s , A o ln l pl o-y lo c tc i$ a c4 as. li2 ,o 5 n/ fd eo c mz o ine u inn st. te ,r Ne wc ow a r ads n5" sa tn ,d7 We e 9k pe hee no em 2 /0p 1 fa 0 4 E. SBu eck eye, a eM i o ; s,
a — i m i A 902 7; o a x
See ad page 73.
<Kenitaa@aol.com>.
| inspiring. Syracuse Cultural Workers July/August 199
71Feminist Bookstore News
t-shirts, posters, labels, an d more, Plys J
quality custom Printing of your desiens j. Offer p.
the lowest prices anywhere. esc a
7 — Monday-Friday, at 860-455-9691 Or fax Ye 9m
at 800-553-0006. Write Box 188-FBN ou
| a ¢ O ° ut of the 0 -6 d0 o1 n7 n, lle ym ca oi ll .c< od m>o .n co Se@ en e ac a. Pac go em s es,
e t d
ro
rdN ae rw ckWt eh ti ’s My ‘e 0a ,r f Er ao cm rt h Le nC ar re a to PPr oas eeo rtf th Pe ckb ees Rf e1
Pca ol we en P, e o o 0n : L u n a P o w e r c k ’ 9 a9
SHADOWCASTERS LANTIT ERNS a h u w t
includes a mix of 13 beautiful, full-color, 4" x6
NIGHTLIGHTS VOTIVE HOLDERS cards of eight original art Pieces that hay
published in either We’Moon ’99 (LPP ’99) or
‘00 (LPP 00) and a “Lunar Power” bum
August. Mother Tongue Ink, 37010 SE Snuf
v 4-800-643-1658 —_ Estacada OR 97023; 503-630-7848 Or toll-f
p8 a7 g7 e- 69 63 0- 6666, email <wemoon@teleport.coms,
£390 L; E3 H99 O7 L9 D71 E9 R, a
. COM .
.
47 4s 4
Nomenclature cards —
notecards feature quotes — inspiring, sassy,
wise — from famous and should-be-famous
w, ne
Amber Lotus offers a complete line of greeting
ctSfpc ahae lra e ca r i rtd n Ge Rus t od e, re d ed d M e c isya tco ss yl an . ,te r en d rd r Os ia Se te pr c h iss y ea , c in r l tod e fj d bo t e ou c h far e ap u n la ta TDep il iines f bvd, eur i ta l n ,r b eu so cs o a Ii F rk nn eo ds ng f m , i rsns C ea iao rn nl iy Rld e e- , sb o oa tf it as hh nne me t cdd h sr l e ,u R dp i i eGr n to ko Pudsd M ra. du a il e s gc msW i at se - ls , o f 7 <b s F 7o oe b)t rs oa t os Rie kW n al sfo yl @oi m mn r woeg m onn a md’ tc e,a is nr o d sns S/ ptP . rr i e s en Ps a ss amo , u spu l .r l e cIn Ms or c :e N. mt a >i MR .l 5e i t 5ns a 1t ni 1o el 4r s ;e. o$ t1 6C . a 55r 10e -,a 6W t 4o 6e 5 m -d 0 e% 3 n 9b 6’y d 8s} i ,s em ai
a l r ;
e h y
aTCE lac a srh l ooo tee ,n os f, d fJ a ear rpS ay n m t ei sb st eo el lel s es G a ti r ino d ocf e l n ut s odh , fe e ja oS F n ua e dc rn r nge aS d la, scS ,rh u ea i d gn , d fI M maa wM gn re ed ad sa pi l ,c a oi f,n e rT ti bV e bo tW oy .h ae kge W sel e ,r. pl aea uv si enC ,ga ”,r ds I ’ Ave t pha n lt e v ue dr re al bl yey e un s ay h sa tp rps eio tem cre h,t m”h i rn k“g sE: ,m ”b r“ aT ach nea n ks M en eo |
a c n “ p a o r a d e
i t a o
MTh ae n yE nd p ro of dP ud a c t tr sm i e ad r bi c eht nya e t fi a io tnn d suTc h ca er h d s E. x peB ro io ek n ce ti ot fl es a Li ifn ec tl iu md ee . g Bm iro ter cee ht. .i ng R2 e4 lc eab are sda esu .t i hf eSu rl a ! , i ge 1 o 0u 0St %tr ra eg e ce t oo tu ts oS n, t ud tia -on s hd i ra tsi ,n s a mpu ra .l . . | |
Global Fund for Women, The aprons, heavy 90/10 sweats, baseball caps, ce e
and cards. Fax us for a brochure and wholesa ch it
list, 503-230-0639. Six free “I’m proud to bea ae
buttons with every order. See ad page 71: l |
Cool Cards, Hot Journals! Coloredo
Donnelly/Colt
— Our 24th Curiosity’s growing line of art cards an booksto
nals has become a favorite with woe oe of et
Art ranging from “fine to funky” W1
ii mages “by women for women” u charaacctteer i2i e our =
72i aaa
Feminist B
: )
y orgeous catalogs showing our everyday, Okstore News
hW oe idh aa yv ,e 2"P a ilj o eu vr en na l el ni dn es frt eh ea t saw me p' ld sb !e t Ph lr ei al sl eed juto se cn ald | Women’s
l s e s t l
uso u a. 07 W8 e9 b- 62 si2 t1 , fa <x wwus .at o8 l0 o0 r-8 a9 d2 o- c8 a34 r3 d, co or >vi .si t Ao su kr Misteries
t 8 e at w c . m
ee money-making “Everyday-Holiday”
spe-
about nd our new customer-guaranteed
sales
ain when you call! See us in “Booksellers’ Faves
EP ipaves.” Thank you!
Zoloring Books
The Coloring Book for Big Girls by Sudie Rakusin
is a delightful adult book filled with drawings of
strong, high-spirited womyn. There are goddesses, a Series of eight
ides, angels, and friends, many with animal com- distinct greeting cards
from the original
panions. Each drawing has a descriptive caption.
The experience of coloring in this book takes you egg tempera paintings by Lora Arbrador
away from the chaos of the outer world into a place . Samples cheerfully provided
| of centered calm. With a box of colored pencils or Wholesale price $10/dozen (bulk discounts available)
| crayons, it makes a wonderful gift for all sorts of Suggested retail price $1.95
| celebrations and rites of passage. Winged Willow
Arbrador Arts PO. Box 460265, S.F. CA 94146-0265
Press, distributed by Ladyslipper and New Leaf. See
(415) 824-7668 or arbrador@crl.com
| ad inside front cover.
Color of Woman: A Journal and Coloring Book cele-
“brating women! Includes 28 illustrations of women
that are powerful, mystical, liberating and nurturing,
portraying archetypal moments in our lives. Color of
Woman is a creative sanctuary designed as a healing
tool and an invitation to explore the mystery and
splendor of womanhood! $19.95 retail, 9" x 11",
covered spiral binding, 115 pages of 110 Ib. recycled
card stock. 10% of profits go to women’s causes. Inde-
pendently published by Shiloh McCloud, artist.
Paintings, prints, she-shirts, and cards too! Tribe of
Diynah, Shiloh McCloud; 888-385-6866, 707-933-8875
(new phone!). See ad page 43.
Goddesses of the Celts: A Coloring Book for anyone
Oaf a, age! Fifteen Celtic Goddesses, elaborate bor- Full-color blank note cards by aratritsits t DaDnanaa SSqquu ires.
ons lovers, and healers with fascinating
Bobi i a from Patricia Monaghan’s The New [ses LISTING IN © ARDS SEC rion |
& 0 desses and Heroines. Bright red glossy cover,
Kenitaa
We yé-catching, full-size. $4.95. Wholesale: Net /30, 20104 E. Buckeye Lane 7
PY Shipping. Available from Triple Spiral Publi- Otis ; Orchards, W ‘aasshhiinngg ton 99027
8“ 8a 8t -i 3o 7ns 7, : 97P 9 O B ox 14 0959, Gainesvil; l e FL 32614; Phone/Fax 509- 992.7229 4 Kenitaa@aol.com
——
July/August 1999
lume 22 Number ,
73News
Bookstore
Feminist Feminist Blessing Pieces, Rectangle po a
Comedy Platters decorated with images ates, na
leading urp ro cd au tac le or o ff ac tuo rm ee dy coC rD ds g Mo ed ld ae ns is ee s, oa ln ld m,a nim 9a ls. otM tu ic nh hm au mc h ono lf Wom
Uproar is the g e s re - C u 3 N g ON tagy
O
iennes around: Kate Ontario N1H 3M9, Canada; 519-822-1196 ” Guelp),
Saeed a Touch and Be Touched has
nhoffer (1998 Best Produced fe , I
CHS S ou oE az mra en dn r—e (a 1W Ai 9e 9ss w8et e are n rFir g eca smaMr )nae ,t d i C g Ch Ta oo hon, m e id( cM 1 a y9 or 9 tg f7 a A F hw &ee aG m ro Ya d Sm el s pe ae i)z c, , C o m M MAi aa amc rr me y en ie a ! sai en ,nng s an mi u neem c drwa h ,eg ”se tr a sy l eEi “i an Cn e i er s ci cc s l Cu e ahl e tp r ct o hu f pr e o rF p ”ru “ia l e Nn oa nd fr d frs esp r, e ” w p get w e ‘t iSr e et r co earsj y mn tmc ome i an T ; ae .l1 d”l9 a9 4. pB r a€ end ‘sa f) o’l e s | |
Y e o p e Am a l e C em o t r — r ti ac “ x p t i n g , ” u i n M m y
“ D r m e a p e e t |
y
y d H
CM ao ln l i 8q 1u 8e - 88M 9a -r 3v 7e 5z 7, or E fl av xi r 8a 18-Ku 8r 8t 9, - 37a 5n 8d . SM ei ec h ae dl e p agB ea l 4a 4n .. o h ar na dn dh -o ipn noo slr pi is rh aa e td s op ne aac lni da l a or ero mic .vc e a ss i Co aw ln i l. t h fE oa ra c ph o u oc uh rm , i fa rn ni i | |)
i p y ee co| 8
photo: 416-537-8151 or email <brenda@istacray oe
Cra(ts
ad page 42. a
Riverbank Pottery — Handcrafted porcelain
provides the canvas for sensuous airbrushed Bits of Glass offers artistically unique stained.
designs in rich shades of purple, blue, green, and glass lightcatchers celebrating women, nature, and
turqoise. Inspired by ancient cultures, Melanie empowerment through symbols. You won't be |
brings art and women-positive images into every- disappointed with the quality or price of these indi- |
day use. Amulets, Flying Goddesses, Scrying Bowls, vidually created treasures. For information, call
616-361-1970 or write PO Box 3135, Grand RapidsM l
49501. See ad page 77.
Water Sounds — Small indoor fountains crafted
for the sounds they make. Water Sounds offers a large
selection of beautiful and affordable fountains. Each
fountain is ready to enjoy. Just fill it with water and
plug it in. Each is made in a handcrafted pottery base
by Northern California artisans. Our long-lasting
water pump is quiet and reliable. It is easy to cleaannd
has a flow-adjusting feature. The pump hasa one year
guarantee. Water Sounds caters to the small retailet
(rainbow colored) We have stock on hand and are able to ship today: :
Unique, contemporary greeting sh ea rv ve cea l fo ow m yoi un ri m cu om veo nr id ee nr ea .n d Foo rf fer a red er op < li
cards i r n c a f a t
For a free Catalog, call or write: 650-366-9750, fax 650-365-3661, OF &
<watersounds@earthlink.net>. See ad pag® a
Suzi Moore
's
Design
in Paradise
_ PO Box 10074 drumsAl ,l O hn ae dT mr ai dbe e® D ar ndu ms nd— viA du ut ahe ln lt yi c aco e
n i i e Ne w
Winston-Salem,
NC 27108 master Native American drummakers # - for
336-725-4997
Mexico, world-famous for fine drums: Des stable
(S seo a lr
e is ting under “Cards” sri ht eu eal skw ii nt -h ndt -h le ear te hn ero wn he ad n, pa ft ore nt le Pe inks)« |
for more info) p a dl e o ng xic 7
July/August 1999 ming comfort. Handprinted (using non
74R eminist
Bookstore
News
isite designs, including Celtic,
xa Labyrinth. Free handmade beaters.
“SPresso press
i have enormous appeal and are actu-
ae musical instruments with superb
lart, handmade native craft, and
Recent biofeedback research
drumming for 15 minutes with your A ll across the country women have
your brainwaves and dramatically started to eat again and it doesn’t
Other products include drumbags, appear that they intend to Stop soon,
decorative drum hangers, Unity No one is entirely sure why the \ He
nial fans, talking sticks, ceramic women are eating and when asked, qh =
t-shirts, and posters. Wholesale a common response is ‘I was
hungry.’ ... from “Say Grace” "prices: ehs PS riap ohb de s )2 3 )ai tee fe mo Oo 7 )s+ < Oo 5 )ep a )ef = i ). uo
A
Co-Op Americ
Bese of profits to indigenous causes. Web site Persephone’s discovered she's a Fall,
‘ gwww.allonetribedrum.com>. Free brochure: not a Winter, and now none of her
" 00-442-DRUM. See ad page 77. fie >) accessories match...
é / \ J
from “Self-Help”
Deeals NA L} s \
SG
| Sticker Sisters presents girl-empowering mes- es
sages on high-quality stickers, shoelaces, buttons,
Magnets, and patches. “Girl Power,” “Girls Can Do
20 different “post a story” notecards and postcards, all printed on
Anything,” “Action not Glamour,” “Girls Rock,” “My
100% post-consumer waste recycled paper. Free catalog available.
"Body is Mine,” and more. New: Girl Power magnetic
‘poetry kit. For a catalog and wholesale price list, con-
factus at 301-270-2627 or <stickersis@aol.com>. Sticker
Sisters, PO Box 11480, Tacoma Park MD 20913. Sticker
Sisters, owned by a 17-year-old girl, has been provid-
ing pro-girl products for three years. See ad page 46.
—
—
—'__ Signs of Pride began in 1991 when Susan and
—
Nancy decorated their van with seasonal decals and
dreamed of replacing them with pride-symbol decals.
That dream turned into a thriving business, and we
ES offer Over 100 decal designs. All decal designs Stories by
__ Tew available as magnets and buttons. Nancy different authors
ae of Pride from their home, with the “help” packaged in
It their Preschool-age
daughter, Morgan. Contact
cardstock
ul for a free catalog: 888-852-7833, email envelope like
8NSPride@aol.com>.
See ad page 79. pantyhose
| Displays
20
| greetiWne Make e disdj plays and merchandisers for books, Espres so Press ® P.O. Box
| lend
§ Cards, audio and video media, and the best Madison, WI 53701 * 608/249-8897
www.espressopres s.com
| Kno a display available. Clear Solutions are —_—_—_—_
"“fToera siincrnea g sales by the beautiful way they
July/August 1999
“lithe 2 Number 2 75v
minist Bookstore News
F
e present merchandise — Without Callin
attention
themselves. And they are §uaranteed agains, by 0
age for a year. Clear Solutions, PQ Bo 2466 fe
Brattleboro VT 05303; 800-257-4559, Web Ct
<www.clearsolutio. nsdisp. lays.coms. See ad pag Si ite
78,
Distributors
CULTURE O CONNECTION [ dow phs Wholesale — Manufacturer and distributo,
of quality Pride merchandise. Over 2,000 it
bian/gay/alternative St€ aM ts fo cr inle s.
stores. Stickers, ic l
buttons, magnets, key chains, jewelry, wallets, lapel
pins, lighters, purses, backpacks, totes, belts, caps,
t-shirts, pet collars/leashes/tags, luggage tags, can.
dles, candleholders, mugs, martini/Wwine/sho}
glasses, stained glass, wind socks, flags, towels, coast.
ers, housewares, bears, mouse pads, bookmarks,
license plates, and more! Contact us for your 56-page
1999-2000 color catalog. 800-736-8919. See ad page8!.
Flags ‘2
“THOUGHT Donnelly/Colt — Our 24th year. We eset
IT
WAS HILARIOUSLY make, and distribute hundreds of different Poe
AMPY. | LAUGHED sive messages on buttons, bumperstickers, ea a
All THROUGH
ITI t-shirts, posters, labels, and more. Plus we : a :
Diane Anderson, quality custom printing of your seseR " oe
100s OF Girltiends Magazine
the lowest prices anywhere. Reac aed
Monday-Friday, at 860-455-9621 or fax aoe a
GAY AND LESBIAN FILMS! at 800-553-0006. Write: Box 188-FBN, mie
06017, email <donco@neca.com>, OTF
-donnellycolt .com>. See ad page 80.
We are also the direct source of
Gilts sa
GENDER BENDERS greeting cards!
se colorful
Focus Stones sell by the bettas .
asket displa)
glass stones retail for only $1.49, eke
Love Stones:
CALL FOR CATALOG AND INFORMATION is free with 100 stones. We also pr * Holiday Stone:
1-888-542-5471 Wisdom Stones, Lucky sade ig es:
Custom work is available wit
1-520-887-9299
: or ca
<www.lifeforceonline.com>
ad page 41.
* 405 £. qc Wo en tn me oc rt ei on R. dc ,o m 11- 7w ww. c ucu sl ot nu re Aq Zc on 8n 5e 7c 0t 5io -n 1. 7c 0o 0m
# . T ,
July/August 1999
76jon was selling like hotcakes. Hot Tickets (ISBN
Vv 678-99-5), for only $5.95, features tear-out cou- (Bits Of Glase
0-934 mising, for example, “When we are apart,
ons Eis hot phone call to remind us of what we
good 4 ing.” Or one can give the whole book to a spe-
ca ir ae e aa te ed wt tt hh ee n bar ce kd e —e ms ndt he tm he. gE ra ac ph icti sc ke at ha gs eaa tn Autistically
l on a h r e r unique 6)
SS trie Victoria Publishers, 800-326-5297, email Stained glass Ohio
enewvic@aol.com>. See ad page 80.
LigktcatcRers Gannet
Girl Mere Celebrating women,
KatuLe And
Spiral Woman creates original art for women
and girls. Great-selling designs include girl power,
empOwelment
goddesses, political, cats, and totem animals.
Organic and earth-friendly materials. T-shirts for through symbols
} adults and children: $7.50-$11. Magnets: $1.50.
} Colorful computer mouse pads: $7. Also: desk and
| wallclocks. For catalog: PO Box 14772, San Francisco ez quabity =)
| CA 94114; 415-626-7821, fax 415-863-1935, email:
_ <spiralwomansf@yahoo.com>. See ad page 82.
Wholesale information:
\ P.O. Box 3135 61* 6G/ra3n6d 1-Ra1pi9ds7,0 MI 49501-3135 VY
| one angry girl designs is a three-year-old,
| _ one-woman company designing and selling uniquely
feminist t-shirts to anyone brave enough to wear
them. Recently, 0.a.g. introduced a successful line of ALL ONE TRIBE» DRUM
bumperstickers as well. To check out products, visit
shome.ici.net/~angrygrl> or send a 33-cent stamp to
One angry girl designs, PO Box 400674, North
| Cambridge MA 02140. Reasonable retail and whole-
) Sale price quotes are available by calling
| 888-ANGRY-11. See ad page 47.
Hi
Anything,” “Action not Glamour,” “Girls Rock,” “My
|- Mane,” and more. New: Girl Power magnetic
> Kit. Fora catalog and wholesale price list, con-
i oe at 301-270-2627 or <stickersis@aol.com>.
ett Sisters, PO Box 11480, Tacoma Park MD 20913.
i
| S|od} ae owned by a 17-year-old girl, has been
i Mg Pro-girl products for three years. See ad
1-800-442-DRUM
ma & N Voices is an interactive quarterly feminist
AN in, i written by and for teenage girls, challeng-
— 8 ihe oppressive images of girls and women in the
Volume 29 Number 2 July/August 1999
77Bookstore News
Feminist Goddess tmasery «it ig ae
CACg tvs vtm ii hvaeu iee ar aan le c o nd l n t nih l s ai i ge la daon ea. a t s aa nc n s o ,,e ,ld w P l es au ee raaa ab Ol Idngd dl f nSd fau e-i il r res Nsnt s osh o s . s mt c Se e te iw oxd e a uuo lm A r0ag m , g clb i e r ey ei a el t ,n sc -w s ny t , 7a o ,. i m Dam v 91 ae n iu 4T 3Td ysl n Ie .-e m bt e ’ ne 1 ni rn 9 gs wc e. a Wu o aanVl V km or do mt oi ,i e $ ,mu igc 3n cr he eh .et ,a s 0 aos ns l 0 nUn , boa p e irc d r r Us qo md a E D.l e ur c p xS el iie g . po sta s ts ,n r ehwb m s ya e re,o ee ,i tn s r rr $s sc a 4 ss ,yt . Mpe i S2i ooxv m5s ti e s atP Ies eu nr lnm e ce .e li-,o .ns - n f <CwCaOga Aod sn ro ll ud g pd lol a id rt 9ne rfs 4gS ii s lu p 1cr oli s l1l cr s e wa k.a s ;n ol ca d, mn o G ad mrW ne p 1co pa su 5hot e fm ti -l- a @el 6a is r adt y2re tn tri al h c e -l - hla n 7i f m ol : 8n rc go, 2gr i :: u .e e sa c$n ,Pt ec 7d d oe a O. e l mt 5 . s ys S 5 >i p , aB0 a .g xoO - dn xr s $ ssi a 1 : ei g n 1 S11i :d . t 5in 6 e7n -a a 7c 8l .] 6e a $ a,7. a ,t St e Se “u © An 1ale se 9o ng‘ :t ia 5sr s ,d:l al h e i 9nw 3s 6I "P io r k eto s m s iw aM iaaee lnl nr :
eS 1 7 4 4
b K o r a c 4 s . 4F o r c 6 a o 1 f 4 e4 7 2 3 . F 1 d
d o n
s
a o q 3 m a ;
See ad page 85. Page 82,
Slitherings creates magig ical God
CO space in your home, garden, and cat for sacred
ful, handmade, wild woman-made ¢ ‘ate
Oddess
The Fine Art of Presentation
f
Show
you Sue - Ro Dio spt lay rw ai ct kh s t th oe fiC t le ya or u r So el vu et ryi on n® e ed
Clear solutions...
Call toll free for a cata log
The Fine Art of Presentation
July/August 1999Femini —s —t —B —o oksto Ere N Se .ws
E
a cdacsses, goddess fountains, bird
figurine?) ne aths, rattlesnakes (they rattle!), and
WS igns of Pride
feeders, bir enlew indoor and garden goddess wall
ceramic drum a more! Sizes range from palm-sized
Jaquesa" start at $5. Free wholesale catalog. Cus-
P.O.BOX
762
to ee available. Slitherings, 733 Ormewood
SIMPSONVILLE
m Ww GA 30312; 404-627-2328. See ad page 39, Sc 29681
DECALS We offer the
| 1D Tass widest selection of Gay/Lesbian
Personalized dog tags are not just for dogs or static cling decals including;
G's. Offer our custom service to your customers.
Rainbow Pride
Genuine embossed stainless steel, rustproof tags
with 24" nickel-plated ball-chain necklace or 4" key < Pink Triangle
chain. Black rubber silencer available. 5 lines, 15 d Black Triangle
spaces per line. $3.50 each postpaid wholesale (retail d
for $7) prepaid orders only. Company check by mail; d Rainbow Triangle
Visa or Mastercard required for faxed orders. q Rainbow decals with
| 94-hour toll-free fax: 800-553-0006. Order forms, silhouette of each state
sample: Donnelly/Colt, Box 188-FBN, Hampton CT
Vv Many others!
| 06017; 860-455-9621 (M-F, 9-5 EST), email <donco
| @neca.com>, or visit <www.donnellycolt .com>. See Great quality, good prices and
ad page 80.
super fast service. Free wholesale
and retail catalogues.
| Jewelry
Pat Pearlman Designs — Original designs 888-852-7833
including Woman/Woman, Man/Man, Man/
Fax: 864-862-6944
Woman, and Goddess figures in sterling silver,
SignsPride@aol.com
bronze, and 14K gold with beads, pearls, and stones.
Pat creates classic, realistic Nature Images, wildlife,
| Sea life, wild flowers, figures, and celestial themes.
For over 27 years, Pat has been designing miniature
sculpture to wear, guaranteeing quality and customer anyone’s price for top-quality mini pridewear and
Satisfaction. It is a woman-owned and operated busi- gold rings. Call, fax, or write to Dion Manley el
h 8e 0s 0s -. 4 57C -o 7l 7o 0r 6 . c Sa et ea lo ag a paa gv ea il 8a 2.b le up ; on request, call D 51e 0s -i 5g 4n 0-, 5 39P 5,O faB x ox 5 10-1 54 48 06 -7 5, 3 95-B 7e 9.r ke Sl eee y a d C pA ag e 9 84 4.7 12;
a. W e Vmi i d rb e bks e tn ite S° lt n c;€ t es x .o°1 tp r r4 hDe i en dK WiM r n ao eg oia bwsw rnen h an yl i gBc sw e h eate tMh !ayey ao v rl e da iea lAs cC n s —r ed au e Ca a l a ’s ee b sy rt h.j e e io e s a nl new t um pl T oe dt o orl h i ewe pe f asD r uruy S, ee l ug s rao h li rn ml cD a od dg mai wv n t eo e awn P rle r o— s yid gg o d M d l e 9a di atoW n nn fi e l deg vt cv ee oe ah e xuy r n wra y aot n lso nd li qv w ds u ee s alr c mtn ll io a eaoo i ntm enutw ge1 - i ty2 - n bsN P fpa ar in ai t aa r yu ehii e ur ueJ a sr le ia e n e n C tj fa aa be rn 6n eeI w d 1er d ee i e lls -i be1r r 4ei 4 sy rD 9t aK s ee u, -as of 0i mf i“o ST 8fg r sw o 2un I ,e io 7s na ra 1 l .t i, n r7 s e d S ca+ n e b tI Cr lln if e oac Ho e o n r. r e ne, i 'dr t clas o y ark eat t tn nT .i ar ” do c c la w aanw oos nI gen dRt n d o e l) ll ea ae teii df s n ao ,d ser 8s i es 0et 0,G ai .noo o fd n “ lt d e ye /j g e eWs e As uee a e usa n a od t
| r a e s e tl l ap n e y bd a d l a o ok t ri i nn 9f o r e d p ia lm r dr s eW s s a ar n d s D w a 1x t p l t o a n G d s s - 8 e
e ” u v , u t o g
— n o k x a 9 J u g t 1 999
Volume 22 Number 5
79Feminist Bookstore News — ie,
re ssseennee ELI titi
Salamar, Inc. — Owned and oO e
anne mb] radmacher. From a nee beet :
COLT
DONNELLY/
keeping a journal, mary anne estab); INg ang
progressive
set of requirements for what her ious decisiy,
resources Sturdy. Recycled. Beautiful paper. Easy to ee be
« Posters Buttons The covers of the blank-book journals can be an ® on,
Books “led pind from the entire Salamar greeting-carg line a
Bumperstic smaller journals have a selection of ove; 35 bes, The
Postcards © T-Shirts and inspiring cover panels. Call 800-408.1699
Since 1975 representative nearest you or to receive more i
mation. See ad page 83. Or
Stewart, Tabori, & Chang — Publishers of calen
dars and books of unusually high qu ality and a
The popular Return of the Goddess: An Engagement Cyl
endar for 2000 is back and gorgeous as ever, ($17.95
1-55670-906-4.) Also offering two journals forwomen
A Woman's Journal of Hopes, Dreams, & Desires ($15.95,
1-55670-725-8) and One Day at a Time Journal ($15.95,
1-55670-520-4). 115 West 18th St., NY NY 10011:
800-932-0070. See ad page 56.
Kate Donnelly & Clay Colt
Box 188, Hampton CT 06247 Masazines
860-455-9621 * fax: 800-553-0006
email: donco@neca.com Fabula Magazine — $3.25. Fabula gives its read-
website: www.donnellycolt.com ership (women in their 20s and 30s) the content
LR A RN BLLOE EERE E SB RT atti they’ve been craving. Savvy as well as engaging,
9 Lesbians will love this delightful package of gift coupo™
Designed to tear out and give to friends or lovers, these Fe
tickets promise exciting and intriguing ways to mish
women you love. Filled with fun graphics by Yosh sm
Seductive quotes on the back of each coupon, like “ls ¥ the
ies that has found the sweet salty very mat
giving. With thi earth?” (Barbara Deming) make this a gift that kee
PS ie y d ime p aiy ro eu d . can guaran It Se Be N yo 0u -r 9 34cu 6s 7t 8o -m 9e 9r -s 5 nes will bevd again be accuse?
$5.95
N ew Vi- c toria' Pub Dl ii ss5 t h re ir bs ut ed¢ P bO y IB no bx oo2 k7 /¢ LPN Co rwi 8c 0h 0, 24V 3T 00 15 30 85 5 © 800-326-529/ 3
- -
ee
July/August 1999 ?
ani
80 yFeminist
Bookstore
the issues that are shaping culture and News
ook marks~stickers~m
boundaries. Whether catching up with ,
sani Deborah Harry or examining the latest y~
Jatinu™d epression therapy, Fabula investigates the Ao ~
nat matter: The result: a respectful, newswor- d o
o j
a stylish magazine that encompasses the y
e d
thy, faceted perspectives of women today. Fabulaisa r i
muiltiy publication, distributed nationally through su 1Omy i p
VCO, 516-576-9400, and available through several el~ Lesbian o ~
c
major wholesalers. For more info call 415-255-8926 or o e
m u
Gait cewww.fabulamag.com>. See ad page 84. o p
j
j
s
o
A
s
~
Moxie: For the Woman Who Dares. Sometimes j
—
called “the NPR of women’s magazines,” Moxie fills a de s~
o y
ap in the media by mirroring young women’s j e
r
strengths. Filled with positive, upbeat, first-person ou
d p
accounts aimed at women in their 20s and 30s who are i
u
putting together lives that work, Moxie provides s h
H
vibrant, often feisty examples of real women doing o~ e]
real things in the real world. Quarterly; distributed de recO rn u: e (0D nellen ss
i
through Ubiquity, Small Changes, Desert Moon, s short ~—
~ of —
Koen, Ingram. Cover price: $3.95. See ad page 86. } \ toaster / m
9 Ov 4 i
0 u
p
BookWomen: A Readers’ Community for Those s
S Boyz o
Who Love Women’s Words — It’s a different kind of IY GIRLS syo
goed
book review publication. Carol Seajay called P ~
S |
bB oo oo kk seW lo lm ee rn a“ na ni cf uty tl oi mtt ele -t‘z oi -n ce us— omfu el rl o cf at th e thk ai tn d youof q~ info@phs-usa.com a
B73 ~8949
- d s r t h
a e
love to hear in your own store.” $5 cover price, 40% b P\)A faxfree 877-234-9800 WwW phs-usa.com u
U
oA~i
| discount, 5-copy minimum. Sample copy available. S
flags~licence plates~mugs~buttons~& more
Center for Feminist Reading, Minnesota Women’s i
Press Inc., 771 Raymond, St. Paul MN 55114;
651-646-3968, email <books@womenspress.com>.
Sojourner: The Women's Forum is the oldest and
g CVVSm tii i leiu an ee r Vg e c lno ld e n sh l ti ge it a ddh n. o eB S a ae ac n s sh ae |i. a ls ar ag e el a dd eOafV oe o no e ft i u es 8l rc t e 5t oe .s ie w s mce Swr ix oao u li Aas 0m rs Kb b l c7oeyi oy i eaa e n tm en w y na ,a a o . ,g in i m 4m a e Dvdn 9u e 1ns aTt T 43l dne ye e tf e m’r be 1o i no na r s r9f gc w c u raot gt aVl ai mi Vo re kodtv mr oii ee ,u $le i ,mgcn s n 3r che ea .a t e,s 0ogq s sl aa , u ne nUn aa dd bp ec dr r ig o rt d m Usa qi Ew l .e r Dec r p uxSlr l ee io g io .s pal stss n, ,m trhwby ems a ye eo , ee inc ,r n rs r $h cf a sa se t y ,.l em Mi i Sl i xi ov os 5n me in te s ot p an s Ii u er nt lg ms ne eeh .o l- ,t is n-e .f ptUm Sif Pr rcoe e luw nno eip aja rto b gis no got e t lt >r nuu r oe i .t rr nvdd Cs s @ne aio Mh . e w le rz i r Ai ,w eS ce n :ad t eYs sr n ga e o e,t ot nu l i 0T je ac ah 2'y s dw oo l te 1f r, t e uo ii 3 e ish rc osm p0, e tw W nr n; e iri o ae i go ant n lls m rn h 6e’ ,,p e c t 1 t qse ono t h 7 u8c eu r r’ep 6- ar at n e .o ss 5 wte a e 7, b 2 dtr rdd t e ,4 ei ie r s F -e rst tyr o 0s gh i ,s r . o 4f n u lo yr e 1g f mtim 5 r b.n bSi e , c po in lv e on e uj i i 4v s bmos e f2se sa lu at pw a ir x ir s ty a Svy n sce,sa e n e u6 ,rn a er y 1 s ie sv 7 it a e ew a - onpt wt i r 5s wd neyse n 2 r p h ews 4sc ea loa - .ioo f efnp n 9n n sm voed e v 3a am f coer 9l no yi ujs 7 i tr o e st tn , m u iit s ua ngni ten tt gao e nd a os r ta y i r iet l tv h s— o* hty e ae , no
a la s e a d S o c t i s n h o r e p e - i e . g lW oe < w o
n a a i b e N 1 g e4 s ,- 7 I- . . W n 0 s s 4 2 n c n < o f o s a e
n a t
g€ nr
i l s e
p, u e r t a i s r
a i
July/August 1999
Volume 22 Number 5
81Feminist Bookstore CC ————
lives of lesbian, bisexual, and tran
gender Wome
Recent features include in-depth
Interviews “a
Dorothy Allison, Jewelle Gomez, a
nd Kate Clin
rofiles with activists and commy
nity leaders.
cles and book excerpts on gender, s
€xuality, an d
issues; lesbian mothers and second “Parent
ado
lesbians and FTM partners; and
€xcerpts from
and classic lesbian novels and short stories, ¢;
available from Ingram, Small Changes, New
Ubiquity, Armadillo, and Desert Moon Doo
(Canada) or direct from Circles Magazine, PMB
terling, Gold & Bronze 1705 14th St., Boulder CO 80302-6321; 888-63
email <circles@circlesmagazine.com>, Web «
<www.circlesmagazine.com>. a
Committment Rings,
Earrings, Necklaces, Bracelets, Magnets
Anklets & Earcuffs
Ephemera has outrageous humor, fan
Call 1-800-457-7706 women’s quotes, campy lurid paperback art, colorfyl
Hindu goddesses, Xena, and Electra Woman on but
for free color catalog
tons, magnets, stickers, and key chains,
www.PatPearlmanDesigns.com sidelines are an inexpensive way for your custo
to express themselves and have fun at the same time.
Request our full-color catalog with many display”
options. Ephemera, PO Box 490, Phoenix OR 97535;
email <ephemera@mind.net>, phone 800-537-72260r |
9
piral
541-535-4195, fax 541-535-5016. See ad page 68. |
Woman a feminist business Musie
Linda Allen/October Roses — A time-honored
For a free catalog:
call: (415) 626-7821 ¥¥ fax: (415) 863-1935
classic on CD for the first time! This beautifully and
write: Spiral Woman lovingly crafted collection of songs is a salute to the
POBox 14772,San Francisco CA 94| 14-0772 cycle of women’s lives. From the exquisite title song:
“October Roses,” to the poignant and tender, “Just
Friends,” Linda takes listeners through the humoh
The Power
insight, wisdom, and power of being a woman. an
of A Girl
Linda Allen releases include Lay It Down, pee
R
and Work, and Rainbow Dancer, Watch for her new ? Visit
E
many other W The Long Way Home, coming in the slippet
O
designs P <www.lindasongs.com>. Available from Ladys" |
in full color E Music. See ad page 61. | |
H
* T-shirts T a :
Raven Recording is the pub at, |
* Magnets THE WORLD Gabrielle Roth, eer renowned Pal n
¥ Clocks adi ur te hc ot ro r, hot eac hh ae sr , sper ne tc or hd ei ng ar eti xs pt l, oria nn gd h ee
xy Mouse
Pads
w r l ife © ven
July/August 1999 experience in artistic, teaching, and ie
82Feminist
Bookstore
News
i Bst ehe w bo er el ned e. a r dn i od, icS nah ge a s m iti s ao fn k oea ri n n 2c g 0r i itn yis ec tp a ri rinr sboa .att ”le i do F,n a o rm “ bt i io is n e fn ott rhh t -ee wc EM uu mos s emi t rec o an m l’e dsi r n EaN S rri pa tn iv he re is t P, u uC a bo l ln “ i iTc t she y hi n ist nr m gua ,i st s ie c 8d t . 8 h ” 8e - L 3e d 3$s 3e 2s -7fo 3,n n 9s i 2. 90t” ,-h 9e 6 D 6 i3 s7 tw 1 r5 ia b-is u2f ei t- e6 d
it ewww.ravenrecording .com> or email by Koen, New Leaf, and Ladyslipper.
See ad Page63.
a1 975, Goldenrod Music is the oldest drumsA ,l l hO an ne d maT dri eb e® an d Dr iu ndm is v id— u aA llu yt h se in gt ni ec d bs yh a mm aa sn t’ es r
i ca n on gd t . h el a Ur ng ie tst e t isdw t sh ,S o tal te wes es.a le S a lp sed oc i is at clr aii rzb riu ynt go r a in o wf m i u dw s eo i m c e sn eb l’ y e s cg ta iy om nu s ai nc od f w wN ia o tt r hi l v de - tf hA ea m me o rr u ei s nc oa wn f or d dr ,fu i nm em pa adk tr ee u nr m ts s e. ,i n DT e aa s do i js g u, sn teN ade lw f orM e sx hri eic etuo pa, -l
n e d b e
ee F‘ o e: as ra en ie ara pen ays C he il ct p oi p pc ie, ed ,a n sd a am nef do lk d da iyt si )t p,l les a. f r si F ea ns at d l ay is le ar s bv a li l ec e .e s cs ok mi fn o- ra tn .d -l He aa nt dh pe rr nth ea dn dl (e sif no gr nl oo nn -g t- oxt ie cr m inkd sr um wim ti ng
e to l s y v i u ) h 24
oa Accounts — Free shipping for your first three e Lx aq bu yi rs ii nt te de Fs ri eg en s, hai nn dc ml aud di en g beC ael tt ei rc s, G To hd ed se es s, rua mn sd
h . . d
‘arders. Goldenrod Music, 1310 Turner St., Lansing MI have enormous appeal and are actually four things:
f 0s: 517-484-1712. Call collect. See ad page 64. musical instruments with superb tone, stunning wall
art, handmade native craft, and tools for healing.
. Ladyslipper Music offers a vast seleenon of (Recent biofeedback research shows that drumming
| recordings by women in all categories: women s/ femi- for 15 minutes with your heartbeat alters your brain-
n t/lesbian music, women’s spirituality, waves and dramatically reduces stress.) Other
national, African heritage, Native American, Jew- products include drumbags, fringed beaters, decora-
classical, alternative, singer-songwriter, holiday — tive drum hangers, Unity Shakers™, ceremonial fans,
us gay men’s music, songbooks, and more. Fast ser-
immediate stock status by phone. Request our
| fully annotated catalog: PO Box 3124, Durham NC
| 27715; 800-634-6044, fax 800-577-7892, email <music@
f Jadyslipper.org>. Our complete catalog is online! Visit
us: <www.ladyslipper.org>. See ad page 63. 3 °
(™
biliprr eS Take ,
| Silver Wave Records — Expanding musical
6
horizons for over twelve years, we boast 60+ titles ) } 4
the
| ‘Spanning the genres of Native American, new age,
| Contemporary jazz, folk, and world music. Our inspiring A Iv OR
| tecording artists include: Joanne Shenandoah, Joy
and @S Ceattd, pne—
| Harjo & Poetic Justice, Alice Gomez, Mary
emotionally enn vene q , /
| Youngblood, and Eliza Gilkyson among many others.
| } Our cassettes and CDs are available through many intelligent leahned, ( ede
: al
: : | ; distributors including Goldenrod, Ladyslipper, New greetings prareate a .
beaf, and Music Design. For more info, contact us
directly at 303-443-5617, fax 303-443-0877, Web site
of mary anne walked AN
<Www.silverwave.com>.
See ad page 62. macy wally? eS ved. ah
bis Songs for Earthlings: A Green Spirituality Songbook
bryce with salamar, inc.
| “empiled and edited by Julie Forest Middleton is a
lewis a800. d408. e1690
| P8book for the women’s spiritual movement that f
i: ons 433 songs, 35 illustrations, 50 pages of text, radmacher www.
oy material, biographies, and “How to Read ame
Volum »
Number 2 83¥
Bookstore News
Feminist
Ne Tr; Rig
Busines, a
Senous ca t
Web site <www.allonetribedry
M.com>. Er i
brochure: 800-442-DRUM. See ad pa ge 77, *
Posters
New posters include Ann Altman’s The
ians, Girls in Sports, The Alternative Alpha
Zapatista’s Revolutionary Law for Women, and H va
Grow Organic. Also Audre Lorde, Dancers, How to
available in a variety of sizes and styles Build a Community, and over 75 more! Shrine
sterling . gold-filled . 14k
wrapping available, poster rack info. 100% cotton
with brilliant niobium rings t-shirts with over 18 popular images/quotes (chil dren(s
too). 4 new designs! Syracuse Cultural Workers
—Tools for Change. Call Donna 315-474-1132 ext. 102,
DION MANLEY CUSTOM JEWELRY toll-free fax 877-265-5399. FBN special discount. Sead
510.540.5395 page 38.
Fax 510.540.5395.79
Donnelly/Colt — Our 24th year. We design,
P.O. Box 14867, Berkeley CA 94712-5867 make, and distribute hundreds of different progres-
sive messages on buttons, bumperstickers, postcards,
t-shirts, posters, labels, and more. Plus we offer fast,
quality custom printing of your designs /messagesat
the lowest prices anywhere. Reach us 9-5 ESI,
Monday-Friday, at 860-455-9621 or fax 24 hoursa day
at 800-553-0006. Write Box 188-FBN, Hampton CT
06017, email <donco@neca.com>, OF visit
COVER PRICE: $3.25 <www.donnellycolt.com>. See ad page 80.
FREQUENCY: QUARTERLY
DISTRIBUTORS:
Sex Toys
SMALL CHANGES
UBIQUITY Tantus — A silicone adult toy manufa cturer vwahlo
ARMADILLO & CO. believes that silicone dildos and plugs fo He
LAST GASP
AND MORE be wonderfully stimulating, but also reasonab bs
and accessible to everybody. Brilliant colors ‘ “a
SEES pa as st “ t ft lh uh ii e d s g ar nl ii ddv lel o ry c e k a lm ia i sng t ia f cz e i m ain sne i ts ht‘ ef or d w e ot bh mae t e e nf , em o wa f hl f oe e rim rni eg an dd v ’ i ie t.w ” points p spa ec ck ia ag l in og f, fe r an nd o wg ua ar va ain lt ae be led . q Cu aa ll li ty o. r S wri itl e l — ” whale
-The Utne Reader May/June 1999 sale packet. 2856 Delta Dr., Colorado »P
01. See ad pase”
5S NORFOLK sT., WC WSA U WL IL .T E F FO A2R B0 2 M LO ASR MAE N FIN R CF A oO N: mC ISCO, CA 94103 80910; 719-391-4200, fax 719-391-42
U A G
415.255 e926 :
,
;
.
yat~ fe
. wt —
July/August 1999 a lifetime replacement policy. Call or st |
Volume 2 4
‘
84Feminist
Bookstore
eerc i; nformation or visit Sir News
wholesale colo w.vixencreations.com>. 1004 Revere
web site at eke Francisco CA 94124; 415-822-0403.
B-49,
ve: Ste.
| see ad pase "9
eTq e- SiCs h io sna ter t Fas Sn g er y as.g ai .r wgl led e ne ss ts Tii gg nn di cs n hBg cdti ks ea n ad a tus t ne ch ol pcr ul ree i osne dshg- y ce u ta n sor i l- q io u vl e d l s, y m s t Mi -a osv eak he le i dr, ttmD s yeo y, s wn a -esn n Fp sd ae uo g sl s ie tl td ds e oy i r am/ s s t yC ,o iro n cpi l ,rb st b iu u nt t te 8lt a— 6so 0h n -su 4,n a© eddu b r r ryu 9e em 6d up .o2 2s re 4 rt h s do f t ri ay Pcd ie fcli gk aa uf hne xr sf s. r e s 2r w, /e eW sn te p soo sp s r=fr atd s5o ce grg as a eri r dsfeg d asn s y, - t, |
m n a o e o e e e. l .i r o o u c e e e o u se g f u u l t , w n ee i a ir o tf q t hu n i l a o c rt p r e l a a b t e i n n, g y w o 5h n f 5 - o m r 1 e . R oe e s u 4 m h e o u9f e ° E Sa s T a, t | | |
bumpersti¢ t/~angrygrl> or send a 33-cent stamp to at 800-553-0006. Write Box 188-FBN, Hampton CT
a | designs, PO Box 400674, North Cam- 06017, email <donco@neca.com>, or visit
; Fe e140. Reasonable retail and wholesale <www.donnellycolt.com>. See ad page 80.
. — are available by calling 888-ANGRY-11.
“7 am alone, but
and Snake Productions — Susan D.
Piaihas produced the Lunar Phase Card for 22
years, a great-selling card / calendar on which womyn
mark their cycles; wholesale $9 / dozen. Solstice cards
$5/dozen. She also makes t-shirts (S-4XL) of empow-
ering imagery: goddesses, moons, dancing mony
kitty ying yang, and the new owl’s moon shirt. Pronk:
919-544-2028, fax: 919-493-7210, Web site:
<www.snakeandsnake.com>, mail: 511 Scott King
Rd., Durham NC 27713. See ad page 59.
Northern Sun — The one-stop shopping choice
preferred by retailers in search of quality feminist,
political, GLBT, environmental, and multicultural
products. We carry over 200 t-shirt designs, including
the Jane Evershed and Tom Tomorrow lines. Our
bumperstickers are in color, taking the guesswork out
of ordering. Choose from over 300 button designs and
75 posters. Imports include sarongs from Bali,
Pouches from Guatemala, hemp hats from Romania,
and clay flutes from Peru. Mugs, magnets, notecards,
Postcards, recycled stationery, calendars, and much
more. 2916 E. Lake St., Minneapolis MN 55406;
800-258-8579. See ad page 67.
p.0. Box 120-027
Spiral Woman creates original art for women
Boston, MA
and girls, Great-selling designs include girl power, Give the gift of self-esteem. 02112-0027
80ddesses, political, cats, and totem animals. Organic A one-year su bscription is 4,888.882-TEEN
just $19.99.
and farth-friendly materials. T-shirts for adults and
children: $7.50-$11. Magnets: $1.50. Colorful
Volume 22 Nu mber 2 85Fem “in Si os jt uB ro no ek rs tore sN ae nw e,s lucid; voicso em mes 1 " the p rint me zd e i "4a ’s —Alw ii sl od er Ben ce hds es o cfi F tc oo r opd fal o “r Da yt kee s-co i Tr i —n ——7 > :
o a g n l, r ea r o w t
h Out Foy”
Sojourner
SPREE
+
‘ . ; Ke : ,
Be On)
g Yee oBuo uide ’re. Company When
in the Best of You Carry
OPOUETE Y
Sojourner: The Women’s Forum
42 Seaverns Street, Jamaica Plain, MA 02130 :
tel: 617-524-0415 fax: 617-524-9397 www.sojourner.org info@sojourner.org
ge Women's Forum |
Sojourner is available in the United States and Canada through major Ken
magazine wholesalers. Subscriptions $21 per year (12 issues). 1-888-475-5996
ee
Sst
100% cotton t-shirts with over 18 popular Also Audre Lorde, Dancers, How to Build a Commu-
images/quotes (children’s, too). 4 new designs! New nity and over 75 more! Shrink-wrapping available
posters include Ann Altman’s The Guardians, Girls in poster rack info. Syracuse Cultural Workers —Toak
Sports, The Alternative Alphabet, Zapatista’s Revolu- for Change. Call Donna 315-474-1132, ext. 102, toll-free
tionary Law for Women, and How to Grow Organic. fax 877-265-5399. FBN special discount. See ad page38,
Tools (o> Trans(ormation
Since 1975, we, The Alchemists®, have dedicated
ourselves to the production of more than just quality
handcrafted items. We have looked to the images
themselves and the meanings behind them. Our pres
ent flagship product Talistones™, sand engraved river
pebbles of quartz, jasper, and agate, represents The
Alchemists’ continued excellence in original design
and quality customer service. Talistones™ are the per
fect gift, combining magic with meaning. Informative
card comes with each stone. Call us at 800-735-0830 for
a free catalog. See ad on the back cover.
All One Tribe® Drums — Authentic shaman's
drums, handmade and individually signed by master
Native American drummakers in Taos, New Mexi®
world-famous for fine drums. Designed for a
with the renowned, patented, adjustable sheep
skin-and-leather handle for long-term dr
comfort. Handprinted (using non-toxic inks) W! ad
exquisite designs, including Celtic, Goddess, @
Labyrinth. ters. These ann
yrin Free handmade beaters a hinge
July/August 1999 have enormous appeal and are actually
umber?
86 Volume 22 Nruments with superb tone, stunning wall
ical inst
de native craft, and tools for healing.
ndma
piofeedback research shows that drumming
“nutes With your heartbeat alters your brain-
Fa dramatically reduces stress.) Other
- clude drumbags, fringed beaters, decora-
Unity Shakers™, ceremonial fans,
-- «sticks, ceramic doumbeks, tapes, t-shirts, and
ah Wholesale prices: $7-$122. All One Tribe is a
oste owned Co-Op America Green Business that
‘wgiovemsa na percentage of profits to indigenous causes.
ement about
Web site <www.allonetribedrum.com>. Free bro- :
Web si
chure: g00-442-DRUM. See ad page 77. <wWww.naiadpress.com>.
si
Focus Stones sell by the fistful! These colorful 1" Wolfe Video takes pride in bringing you the
glass stones retail for only $1.49, and a basket display is most complete selection of lesbian, feminist, and gay
free with 100 stones. We also produce Love Stones, home video entertainment available anywhere. We
Wisdom Stones, Lucky Stones, and Holiday Stones. stock hundreds of titles and products — and our sales
Custom work is available with no set-up charges. experts will make sure that you have the bestselling
| Lifeforce Publishing is a woman-owned business of merchandise when you need it and at the best price!
family and friends. Ask any of our customers, they'll tell Call us today for the latest releases! 800-642-5247. See
you about our great service. See our Web site at ad page 88. @)
<wwwlifeforce online.com> or call 800-828-3870. See
ad page 41.
We are committed to using natural substances
+ An amazing new method of self
tather than synthetic or composite materials. The origi-
revelation and daily path-working.
nal runes were carved on pieces of oak, something
natural and durable. The search for “just the right rune + Designed to tap into the sacred
stone” became extremely important. We went to the source of women's energy.
Source we knew best, our Mother, the ocean — and, « All new self-empowering designs
there they were — natural beach stones washed up on etched into 25 natural stones.
shore just for us to pick up and use. Pure, ancient energy
and a great gift to all women. Earth Gypsy, 303- - Easy to use instruction booklet
322-8309 or New Leaf Distribution. See ad this page. includes layout pattems.
ur PE :
KNOWLEDGE FOR THE SOUL
Video
Se Q Connection has a growing line of . An invaluable too! for developing your own personal power. ‘
ia =oan d s §a y am no a v gi re e gs e t ia nn gd arci ds a sr .t dh e l Oie unx e rc l wu is vti ihv e o ov s eo ru er 9 lc 0 ee sdf i eo f sr - « TE ux rp ne ri ee vn ec re -dt ah ye e ex nc di et ae vm oe rn st io nf t o op a en mi an gg i cay lo ur e xpm li on sd i ont o oy fo u pr os se sl il b ila in td ie s other
ng d a y c d e r a « y
~~ >Wgnificant Others, which includes a Cheryl $44 Retail
a) % * o m y te hs eh o 7r 0t s, Ta Vn d si; D ti cff oe mr en “t D ifS ft ’r rok ee ns t s St ta rr or ki en sg . ”D a Cn aa ll P ul sa t ao t e-mE aia l r et arh th gypsG yy @ap ols .cy om; or D 30e 3)n v 32 Ie S2 B. Nr 8 3 0 09 - 9647257:0°3
yn t2-5421 (toll-free) or 520-888-5421. email: New Leaf Distributing
BSl ideos@cultur eqconnection.com>, Web site:
ye ultureqconnection.com>. See ad page 76. July/August 1999
4 Olume 29 Number 2
87minist Bookstore News
Fe childhood lends, Trevor eeeee
4 e 65.
Videos, continued sie pe t Lake City. The school heartedly only to be teased and octane Whole,
her public high school in mmmunity freaked and ulti- darkly comic suicide attempt, Treyo; ween Atte
board and much of the co his lost innocence and looks forwar SOme
d to the nee a
mately banned any no tinue. Spear- when he gets to accompany hi
llow hers to con SOR : Y Tus cute gayb y
the school Bes, Kellifought forher rights | striper to a Diana Ross concert. As Ellen < candy
Suntil ea ae the school board’s decision. In | says in her introduction of the film, it’s Teally ted -
her er fight : Kelli changed history and enlightened many of anyone and everyone who has e Ver felt d:
las the rest of the country. Kelliis a from those around them. Available from Wo} Petia
Soe dents om and her story, told here, is amazing. Cris & Tret’s A Peek Between the Coven
Avail Ta rb el ve o rf .r o Tm h isW ol af me a zV ii nd ge o. s hort film by Peggy RajsT ki ia | Ts rn ee ta k Fup re ec ’k s a bt e st th se e lm lia nk gi ,n g hio gf h lt yh e eC nr ji os y eW di ,l li lea sm bs io ann fa y 4
won the 1994 Academy Award for Best Live-Action album Between the Covers. In this behind-the-scon.
Short. It is the bittersweet story of Trevor, an earnest, video, we are invited to take part in every aspect
honest, and enjoyable kid who favors Diana Ross and the album’s creation. Included are in-depth inter.
the school stud Pinky. With the innocence only views with the artists, mixing, editing, improv, anda
few faux heavy metal jam sessions. Filmed mostly af
=e y = @ O 0) nipa atil C OTLL SR TW ro el tf ’ s M ho oo men , S tt hu ed i vo is d, e o wh hai sc h a n al is no v itd io nu gb l ae ns d a ws a rC mri s aia rn tg o
6% OX "Fe it and none of the self-indulgent aspects found in
Bi: New Collection of Lesbian most behind-the-scenes videos. Rather, the experi-
Fil ms N ow Available! ence is uplifting, down-to-earth, and hilarious, It
amills ¢ ae showcases the many talents of Cris, Tret, and the
$39. 95 other players but ina more roundabout way: their tal-
(Approx 80 min. ent shines through naturally, without pretense or
ge Bs These sever effort. Whether you're a hard-core Cris and Tret fan
short films | or more of an Ani gal like me, it’s hard to miss the
incredible, important, and heartwarming work these
glimpse into the ~
women do. Available from Wolfe Video.
funny, edgy and. High Art. Ally Sheedy sheds her brat pack image
_ often times” in this stunning reentry into film. She plays Lucy
/ | seductive Berliner, a coke-addicted photographer who has
afc encounters given it all up at the tender age of 30. Her attentions
a between women divided between Syd, her newly acquired editor ata
“Samd thes high-glam photo mag, and her longtime sil
; who, for all intents and purposes, represen
saphe. e darker side of her eae it is in some respec
Includes a dark and dreary film, but it is marked with some
a/ | | Lisa Cholodenko's amazing subplots and really speaks to the struggles
of SL, The Di (High Art) we all have with our inner demons and how re
OE es a og MERE, arty affect the choices we make. Available from We
a AS
Video and Naiad Video ; of
Call 1-8 00-642-5247 Other good flicks: Incredibly True Sab
,
Angel at My Table (Wolfe Video), Antonia video
PO Box 64, New Almaden CA 95049 (Naiad Video, Wolfe Video), Fire (Naia deo),
_Yeww.wolfevideo.com Wolfe Video), Tales of the City series (W
July/August 1999 and Serving in Silence (Wolfe Video) tine
88 Volume 22 Nad from page 36.
| ae $s, iC mO prove wages and working condi-
wo ibe to protect their communities from
as We environmental hazards. The activists
-onships across the border: with unions,
; and community organizations. A
rg i looking at the effects of “global-
yalua
Bee corvice Committee, 1501 Cherry St., Philadel-
FP ~ 19102; 888-588-2372 or 215-241-7059. Bulk
P
and trade discounts available. Volume I, ' 1772-1849: : 1-15-55 5652-331- 9; Volume IL,
1849-1866: 1-55652-332-7. Distrib uted by Independ-
In The Space Between Us: Negotiating Gender ent Publishers Group.
and National Identities in Conflict, Cynthia
iC ro ec lak nb du rn sre ax ep ll /o Pr ae ls stiw no e,m en an’ ds Ba ol sl ni ian ac /e Hs rcin gN oo vr it nh ae rn to
e e
, I e
show how women on different sides of ethnic conflict
can come together to create spaces of peace and a polit- , Jean McNeil’s debut novel, originally published
ical force that crosses battle lines. Filled with photos, in the U.K., is now available in the U.S. Hunting Down
this is another important book from the folks at Zed. Home is the story of Morag, who lives with her grand-
$25 pb, 1-85649-618-X. Zed Books Ltd., 175 Fifth Ave., parents off the coast of Nova Scotia and only knows
NY NY 10010. Distributed by St. Martin’s Press. her mother through the postcards she sends from
Africa. It is a novel detailing isolation on the farm, the
Nadia, Captive of Hope: Memoir of an Arab formation of Morag’s identity, and the bonds of family.
Woman by Fay Afaf Kanafani is an autobiographical On a road trip that, as the copy says, “borders on kid-
account of the author’s life in one of the most tumultu- napping,” Morag realizes that she must take her future
ous regions in the world. An Arab Muslim woman into her own hands. $16 cl, 1-57131-026-6.
born in Beirut in 1918, Kanafani was engaged at 13, Milkweed has begun publishing books for young
married and living in Palestine by 17. After her readers. In The Spider’s Web, Laura E. Williams
husband was shot and killed, she was trapped by tra- chronicles 13-year-old Lexi’s search for belonging.
dition. She studied in order to gain employment and She falls in with a group of neo-Nazi skinheads and
escape the restrictions placed on her by the men in her decides that she feels more comfortable with them
life: her father, her brother, and her father-in-law. This than she does in her own house. As the group
Sa story of a woman’s journey to autonomy, her real- begins to do things that make Lexi uneasy, she
ation of feminist outrage long before exposure to meets an old woman, Ursula Zeidler, whose secret
oon feminism.” Also reveals the oppressive exis- prompts Lexi to “set off a chain of events that places
ee women in two countries, Palestine/Israel and everyone she cares a bout in dangeBer and leahdesr he lir f e.t ”o
on. $19.95 pb, 0-7656-0312-8. M.E. Sharpe Inc., 80 make the most important decisions of he
c|l m u7e d1s i4s n- g2 7P 3 Ba - &r 2k T1 06D a.r n . d, Av IA a nr i gm l ro a abn ml .k e N fY ro m 105 m0 o4 s; t 8 w00 h- o5 l4 e1 s- a6 l5 e6 r3 s, , . H y e6 e a. n9 r5 d - D oe lra dp s b, m o Pn1 ae- g r5 ee 7 1 is3 h ao e1 nf r- da 6 2 P mhm2 a e o- o rn t1 t t. hhh m eee o rrr t - hed wr iP a l e u I ]a g mk h o tvt ee aeb c y r h to a it nta hl el e a. ca oe n nh y e ;-o s - rro oo °n o m 4
we a Taylor, the editor of Lawrence Hill Books, Tessa aver e’s initial unhappiness wath a
tives ; ected 20 of the most significant slave narra- 8 iosity with her surroun
eLa nci cn e s th te h H ei ltn l uew ’s n so a - bv rLo i il b du r gam ere dy as oe cft c, o uB nlI ta sW c .a k s TA hemB eor r fn ii r c sta a voS s ll ea urv i me e e. s him n io g dv s, de e naq ui wc dok r al l n ger s. The novel culmo irs ne as t, e Jg s u h lo yws /it As t u, h g usa thn ed r 1 999
Volume 22 Number 5
89v
Bookstore News
Feminist
search for the treasure at Panther Peak. $6.95 pb, Sag ue ps e r 6 Pia nn kd i e up b alla . bo (u Tt h osA en n Si pe a ldEl el eis n a bn ald l s he Sky-High
M- i- n57 n1 eM3 ai1 p- l o6 k l1 w i9 e s- e1 . d MNE dit 5i 5o 4n 0s 1, 4 63 10 -31 3s 2t. 31A 9v 2e ,. fN a. an a tfa egd ae, cs ear rte ,o a bap yv p oa Mir rde n .t gl e Oy t t Dim on na g nk ei ln h leg r a pi dc ono gkm ,ie eb ba yc sk n a ht e} c h sh e e d a © yM aj ho e, d
; 2 - x h s ’ ’ s t e b y
6248. Distributed by PGW. after all, a lucky ball.) She has even avoided aa (Itis,
Crazy in th e Cockpit is a new novel by experl- s hu op oe dr , piw nh ko ie s.h as W ha en n ex At ne nn is ei ’v se bc ao ll ll ec ist i to hn e o hf a t me & igS hc bh oro .
enced pilot and daughter of Judy Blume, Randy
she must risk losing it in the weekly punchbaitd left,
Blume. Twenty-year-old Kendra Davis takes a flying
Annie's final amazing pop will put her and her bame,
lesson ona whim and gets hooked on the experience.
Deciding to forego graduate school in order to pursue face-to-face with the super. How she handles it a
flying, Kendra fights her mother, other male pilots, her as the good sport that she is, respecting me
and her employers in her quest to realize her ultimate does an excellent catch. $15.95 cl, 0-7894-2513. she
goal: to become an airline pilot. A great story about DK Publishing Inc., 95 Madison Ave., NY
being a woman in the cockpit from someone who’s 10016; 888-342-5357, fax 800-774-6733, Web sife
been there. $21.95 cl, 0-7894-2572-6. <www.dk.com>. Available from all major wholesalers,
For children ages 10 and up, Susan Butler’s
fantasy novel, The Hermit Thrush Sings, is the story
of Leora, an orphan and outcast in her mother’s
household. She hides her webbed hand, fearing being
sent to the Institute even though her “deformity” Ursula Le Guin has written a new Catwings
enables her to draw haunting pictures, pictures that book: Jane on Her Own: A Catwings Tale illustrated
seem to predict the future. Leora frees a baby birmba, by S.D. Schindler, in which bored Jane (who doesn't
a member of the “mutant interspecies” that the villag- get to fly anywhere or do anything interesting
ers fear, sending her on an adventure that takes her to because it’s too dangerous) finally flees to the city for
the forbidden “Outside.” The journey enables her to adventure. She finds it when she flies right into the
find her self-confidence and become a leader in a new room of aman who makes her a TV star. But the pam-
society. $17.95 cl, 0-7894-2489-4.
pered life has restraints of its own, and Jane escapes
In lyrical prose, Joan Vannorsdal Schroeder
again, back to the farm, to her old friends, and to real
brings us the story of two people who must come to freedom. $14.95 cl, 0-531-30133-8. Orchard Books, a
terms with grief in The Hearts of Soldiers. Allison, Grolier Company, 95 Madison Ave., NY NY 10016.
whose father murdered a man when she was twelve,
must “face her own merciless truths:” the accidental
Jackie Kay, the Scottish author of the novel
ce her daughter, the difficulties of connecting Trumpet, has published many books of poetry. One of
eae ene er r ae s ma hi ern i mn ig n id sa teu rg ht he ur s, b at nh de u tn ur ra nv s el ai wn ag y of f rh oe mr et xh pe lm o resis , n ao cw c ordav ia ni gl ab tl o e thein bt lh ue r b,s ta “t se is: c kneO sf sf , C io ll lno eu st s
e ge dfe nul h- uS rcie N fe hxn et ssn d o wo r f , yr wi ae Ca rn ld d,s hi st op h e w isci ht tih he f a or f ec pl ou ls ii cv ee , bna un td th he ea l t sh i[, p ea ms pt ndea ,mn sd p her e xs se imn ct k, i on ioa d yy n sa m hi c Ssa in ecd ebw oe ye
im nu s t oi wg r e co u t h i a a l w a y . cT kh o ] e a i n e n t j ,u t t eh e k d ,
n - i t s c e t t
j
ak racism and prejudice.” $16.95 pb, 1-85224-42 ‘a
Bloodaxe Books Ltd., PO Box 1SN, Newcastle fs ur
Tyne NE99 1SN. Distributed to the trade by 19408
Editions Inc., Chester Springs PA
610-458-5005, fax 610-458-7103.
$24.95 cl, 0-7894-2553-x,
. jlson
The Vancouver Sun has called poet Sheri-D W e
as A gutsy modern broad who has created a 1 Taste 0
ue
July/August 1999 feminism.” Her new collection, The Swe€
Volume 22 Nut
90
jf “Light«4g ninis r -i .c 15h 2l -y 60-u 5.r b Aa rn s, nas le ns Pu ua ll p, Pra en sd f 1e 0m 3i -n 1i 0s 1t 4. 40639, Cambridge
0 e s , MA 02140; 617-424-9595
email
| $12.95 PP eet, Vancouver BC V6B 2W9, Canada; S< qb ur ae r@ eb ,i r ae ns do ur Bc ooe k a: o zr ig n>. e .; Availabl e f rom BP, Alamo
Homer 5 5 is x 604-669-8250. Distributed by LPC.
NV | 604-687-423
PerfecF to r Das yt ,o re ps o ew mi st h by st Ar no dn rg eap o Pe ot tr oy s , c dol rl ae wc st io un ps, o n T th he e wed ii tt he dB 1 i 8 b byL i i sv K ee a xs t u: a a l B O wi rs n oe d mx o eu ra nfl f rcW ao no n gtm ia ne i gnn s fri oT ne m-l dl e 21p tT thh e i 5i 7r r Soa mee i
o . of
oet’s experiences with her Greek grandparents, with the interviewees are in relationships with women
regnancy, with motherhood. $10 chapbook, some with men, and some with both. They are moth-
1-893311-03-1. Parallel Press, Memorial Library, 728 ers, disabled women, women of diverse ethnicities and
| State St., Madison WI 53706; 608-263-4929. classes, performance and visual artists, writers,
nurse-midwives, bi activists, safe sex educators, single
The Complete Poems of Sarah Orne Jewett and coupled women, women in group marriages, and
}) collects for the first time the poetry of Jewett HIV-positive women. The book addresses sexual
| (1849-1909), who was best known for her fiction. awakening, life and relationship histories, safe sex and
| Jewett chronicled the local color of her New England sexual practices, coming out to friends and family,
| coastal community as well as mapping her internal dealing with gay, lesbian, straight, and bi communi-
| life and her relationships with women. $12.95 pb, ties, body image, feminism, the political aspects of
! 0-9655309-3-0. Ironweed Press, PO Box 754208, Park- bisexuality, and the differences between relationships
| side Station, Forest Hills NY 11375; 718-544-1120. with men and women. $14.95 pb, 1-884365-09-4. See
| Available from B&T and Ingram. Sharp Press, PO Box 1731, Tucson AZ 85702;
520-628-8720, email <seesharp@earthlink.net>.
| __ Now available in paperback: Winona LaDuke’s Distributed by LPC.
(the internationally renowned Native American
| activist) first novel, Last Standing Woman, in which
| LaDuke chronicles the lives of seven generations of
| Anishinaabe (Ojibwe/Chippewa). An incredibly
| ‘portant book. $14.95, 0-89658-452-6, August. There are plenty of books around that chronicle a
Voyageur Press, St. Paul MN; 800-888-9653; fax straight person’s journey from marriage to a homo-
| 651-430-2211. Available from B&T and Ingram. sexual relationship. But there is also a growing
population of straight spouses dealing with the unique
The Bisexual Resource Guide edited by Robyn sense of abandonment they feel when their partners
| Ochs is now available in a third edition. The guide come out. In Lisa Rogak’s new novel Pretzel LOB 8
see ces a listing of novels, stories, nonfiction five-year marriage dissolves when the pagiagonie
| eos articles, and films with bisexual themes; husband decides to explore ue pee fen ie y
a uel Internet resources; and listings of bisexual iving at the realization that ne 1S g@y- ‘
| sp sa ed tb ii as le x ru ea sl o- ui rn cc el .u si (v Ae gr fo ou rp ms ar Fo Bu Nn d offth ie g mlo ab ne a. geA rn o c o Tn et he oa vu et lh or a’ cs uro aw tn Bu sg ry eE a w ie ee st
n n d e r c e to a gay man. h n c el y e a
*n 4e 3Fl 08rl %8e a 1n -B c 2a .i Tu 3s ht .c ee or B)w iB sa a es y at lh A ee r :e Rar ee sg 0i o%lo u,in rs a ctl ei n 0g -e s C1d . ei 9)t o tr r$ ,p1f i2o er . P9 O5 a l l Bpt obh x,e p sse ul v ee ex r ei y bt oy en me go rrf i eon uvt poh g,le v oe dr pb.e l sa teAt hxli euso raon s i yh mn i acp fl ueu d .ea ssn d 5a sot i h be ,t au 0p -nl e es F oE nSS ee
a i al l a f 1e e x
5 a c o up i s 2 1 ec o s : 3 0 % , o r u p n $ p
. x n
July / August 1999
me22 Number 2
91Bookstore News
Feminist
responses to the AIDS crisis and teenage pre
W bH 6 yi 0i l 3g -l Ah 5i lw 2a a3am n-s y 7 , 8 7 .H 7i ,l HGl or oa eP f dmu t a b iol ln &i sh C< oi N L .n H ,g R , K 7@ 10 e 7R 3 n -R 2 d4 60 o 7;1 r . 0B 8c8o 6ox 0 7m 0 .> -1 6 . A2 3 3 l94 s-, oD1 i0 sa 9 at: vr a i ie b luj at be l- e hf B iso e l ss aa ut cl ee kt sr h .e y ”d a n Adm i an nlt ewo e col / ee mf sr a sea n amn i rc a yse l te ao nf tr lhe ys el se o iax sltu .oia o gl n i $s a 1h n 4d i si p v pse b, ,r s s ii l 1et a -ny n 5t e 07oa v 5n -ee pe n 4d 9e re e 1d
2 -
C a 7 4
from B&T and Ingram. The Vision of Peace: Faith and Hope in No “7,
womanCe ’l se br ma et mi on ig th oe C lo ify to it nge hb ey seB la fr b oa ur ta oW at te hr s gri is efa te hr en I 19r 7e 6l an Nd o bb ey l M Pa er ai cr ee ad Pr izC eo ,r r ai ng da n edM ia tg eu di r be y, Ji ohn n t ng
r f r f e
resulting from her husband's death. She had spent 25 includes a preface by the Dalai Lama and a foreyan
years with her husband, Frank Waters, a gifted writer by Archbishop Desmond Tutu. This volume is the
and “spiritually powerful” man. Waters shares first collection of Maguire’s writing. She organized
poignant memories of her life with Frank and beauti- some of the largest peace demonstrations in the his.
fully portrays the life of solitude that has slowly risen tory of Northern Ireland, co-founded the Community
in its place. “Celebrating the Coyote is the most can- of Peace People to carry on the peacemaking initia.
did and empowering exploration of what marriage tives begun at those rallies, and continues to speak
truly is — a continual act of immense creative rela- and participate in grassroots peace efforts world
tionship to the Other — that I have ever read.” wide. $14 pb, 1-57075-251-6.
—Denise Chavez. $16 pb, 0-9659521-4-2. Divina Orbis Books, PO Box 308, Maryknoll NY 10545;
Books, an imprint of MacMurray & Beck, Alta Court, 914-941-7636. Available from BP and Ingram.
1490 Lafayette Ste. 108, Denver CO 80218;
303-832-2152, fax 303-832-2158. Available from B&T, Remember When God Was a Woman: Tales of
Bookazine, BP, Books West, Koen, and Ingram. the Feminine Journey by Peggy Lumpkin is (even
though the title doesn’t say so) all about menstrua-
tion. Lumpkin decided to write the book after hearing
the hilarious, embarrassing, and certainly taboo
stories her friends told about menstruation. The first
In Legacy of Shadows, Lillian Moats lyrically section, Tales of the Taboo, is a collection of stories
takes readers through the lives of three generations of about how a woman’s bleeding sometimes collides
Moats women to help her understand the nature of a with polite society (lots of ruined upholstery in this
personal breakdown she experienced in her late 20s. section). The second section, The Power and the
She begins her exploration with the death of a small Punishment, explores contemporary menstrual
child in 1904, moving from Lincolnshire, England, to superstitions and taboos around the world. The final
Toronto, New York, and then Chicago. Along the Way, section, (the title of which makes me wince, but hereit
she reveals the interior landscape of mother, daughter, goes) No Womb for Tears, collects the thinking of
and granddaughter in turn as well as the unresolved doctors, philosophers, clergy, and artists to find @
grief and emotion that was her matrilineal legacy. $18 way to better health that avoids the pharmacy: $19.8
cl, 0-9669576-0-1, August. Three Arts Press, 1100 pb, 1-58151-024-1. BookPartners Inc., PO Box 9%
Maple Ave., Downers Grove IL 60515, 800-777-2997 Wilsonville OR 97070; 503-682-9821. Available from
bfa yx B6 o3 o0- k9 M6 a8 s- t1 e6 r2 s3 ,, e 8m 0a 0i -l 2 47< -i 6l 5i 5a 3r ,t s@ f aol.com>. Distabuted the publisher and from Partners, New Leaf, B&T, BF
Koen, and Ingram.
orld Mythology
The Divine Feminine in W :
Kelly Bro
Hara Sai ule = eeaeth of theology at _| written and illustrated by Sandra Stanton ® é ie
uality within the Black vie e taboo subject of sex- nal/reader inspired by myths revealing the ee j
sS pe ex cu ta il vi et .y Sha en d art gh ue e s Bl ta hac tk tC hei nk rex : A Wp oi mta as n ia st e Pe r- | v pi as ii no tn i nga nd r ept re oa dc uhi cn tg i ono sf w oo f m ge on d. d esI sn ec sl ud pe as s ta31 n e Pe r ket
the Church has “anieviered ae oe SUED, from around the world. Each is portray® ve
July/August 1999 Li Sonstructive | animal companion and cultural artifacts: Number?
92 Volume 22ae
accompanied by the myth of the goddess
ortrait is
“ured and quotes from women authors (like Luisa
ee pecin Stone, and Starhawk) about nature,
ee ity and the Earth. $15.95 spiral bound,
spir i
er -_ PO Box 31538, San Francisco CA
9 “en 5695-0311, fax 415-695-0300. Available from
BP and New Leaf.
Best Friends: Tons of Crazy, Cool Things to Do monogamy,
Ew li it zh beY tho ur apG ei r gl if vr esi en gd is frb iy ndsL is (a geA lb 8r -1e 2g )h ts a fn ud These women fight the Oppression and shake up
a C rl e a s 12 5 n
activities to do together. From tie-dying t-shirts
Nigerian style to staging an old-time radio show to
making “snow cream,” this book celebrates girls’
friendships, and actually has some pretty good activi-
ties listed. Carmen Renee Berry, the co-author of
Girlfriends, said that Best Friends is “The perfect book
for girlfriends wanting to create unforgettable memo- In In Your Face: Stories from the Lives of Queer
ee
ties, share experiences that can turn new friends into Youth by Mary L. Gray, teens age 14 to 18 discuss
er soul sisters and enliven lifelong friendships.” $12.95 their lives, personal backgrounds, and visions for the
pb, 1-55652-326-2. Chicago Review Press, 814 North future, giving researchers, parents, and educators
e Franklin St., Chicago IL 60610. Distributed by Inde- insight into the experience of being queer and young
S pendent Publishers Group.
in this country. $17.95 pb, 1-56023-887-9, Harrington
Park Press, an imprint of the Haworth Press.
d
e The Women Who Broke All the Rules: How the Love Matters: A Book of Lesbian Romance and
Choices of a Generation Changed Our Lives by Relationships by Linda Sutton reprints the author's
Susan B. Evans, Ed.D., and Joan P. Avis, Ph.D., is an advice columns and personal reflections to help
examination of the social changes that the 18 million lesbians validate and appreciate their unique rela-
: women born in the first years of the baby boom tionships. Robin Morgan blurbed this: “In Love
7
effected as they came of age and moved into adult- Matters, Sutton has given us all a funny, personal,
hood. The authors purport that women of this loving collection of down-to-earth wisdom —
Beneration made transgressive, rebellious decisions chicken soup for the soul — from which lesbian
without precedent or role models, defining a new women (and all other sensible beings) will profit. So:
Way for adult women to live. As an example of this buy, share, read — and laugh, cry, love, recognize,
transgression, the authors quote Hillary Rodham and celebrate the humanity in these pages.” Sutton’s
a ul have often thought of myself and my kind of a Dear Abby just for gay ladies, and her
Beer 4 transitional figures.... Friends of mine have artwork’s included to boot. $14.95 pb, 1-56023-918-2.
han a Ss coming of age as being on the cusp of Violence and Social Injustice Against Lesbian,
ie at fundamentally redefined the role of Gay, and Bisexual People edited by Lacey M. Sloan,
aa $18.95 cl, 1-57071-430-4. Sourcebooks Inc., Ph.D., and Nora S. Gustavsson, Ph.D., helps readers
Ox 372, Naperville IL 60566; 630-961-3900, fax see the “quiet” everyday acts of violence goer a
6 M3 a3 j0- o9 r6 1 hny 2 o1 l6 e8 s. lA ev ra s.i l: able from the publisher and most ou fa l vm ii on lo er ni ct ei es a. L oo pk hi yn sg ap la st nt dh e as nte or ne yo mty op ui sc a acp ti ,c es
W a s a ic a thi
i ‘fies the subtle sociai l reii nforceme nt that
' ti ate Lesbian P olyamory Reader: Open Rela- g say o a mnd olnesbeian hatred Seasiae et d cinasytarutcotbsi arrenad ee lr ss
rare” Non-Monogamy, and Casual Sex edited how to wage their own es sae sna pratiees
—aicia Munson and Judith P. Stelboum is a | and mutual respect” against thep
Olume 22 Number > a July/August 1999
‘Feminist Bookstore News
+ GLBT people battered citizens in their mother-daughter relationships in the teen years Writte
that rende 0-7890--00665500--2 . by and intended for both mother and daughter
itii es. $29.95 cl,
Binghampton sFo or pd omis ra fa im il coy let gh ee .r ap $i 1s 4t .; A pm b,a n 1d -a 32i 4s -13 641 .S 4. yean Tot
Searls Press Inc., 10 Alice St.,
h o e n l 9 5 57 l d
800-HAWORTH, fax 800-895-0582.
NY 13904; Jean Shinoda Bolen, M.D., (Goddess.
Everywoman) has written The Millionth Circle, 4 in
KimerT ohe n HG aa ry d ina ,n d Ph.L De .s , bi ea xn p lorS ee sl f- thE es t oe re im g inB s oo ofs gab yy to Change Ourselves and the World: The Mea He”
and lesbian self-esteem, the formation of which often and Maintenance of Women’s Circles to noo
involves fighting against the notion of conversion women to forms groups of any kind (groups of nia
therapy from parents and other adult influences. The ers, students, women in cyberspace, readers
book postulates that, by addressing the problems that businesswomen, whatever) as a force for Sociological
gays and lesbians faced as children, gays and lesbians change. The book is written in poetic verse which
can improve their self-esteem. Includes discussion of according to the copy, “engages the reader’s imagina-
how one’s career and lifestyle choices can be affected tion and provides the essential elements involved in
by feelings of inadequacy and offers strategies for creating and maintaining women’s circles.” $14.95 dl,
healing. Throughout are exercises to foster change, 1-57324-176-8, September.
strength, and growth. $12.95 pb, 1-57226-131-4. New Conari Press, 2550 Ninth St. Ste. 101, Berkeley CA
Harbinger Publications, 5674 Shattuck Ave., Oakland 94710. Distributed by PGW.
CA 94609; 510-652-0215, fax 510-652-5472. Available
from PGW. The Courage to Be a Stepmom: Finding Your
Place Without Losing Yourself by Sue Patton Thoele
is a guide to stepmothering that offers advice and
skills to women who want to be good stepmothers,
but still need to take care of themselves. Thoele is a
I guess there can never be too many Ellen books. psychotherapist and has been a stepmom for 25 years.
Birch Lane has just published Ellen: The Real Story $14.95 pb, 1-885171-28-5. Wildcat Canyon Press, 2716
of Ellen DeGeneres by Kathleen Tracy. Tracy’s book Ninth St., Berkeley CA 94710; 510-848-3600, fax
describes how Ellen, who attempted throughout her 510-848-1326. Distributed by PGW.
career to keep her private life private, eventually
sm pa od te igt hh te d ae nc di si po un tt io gc om hee ou ct a, eet rh ro aw in rg k.h er ni cn lt uo et sh :e mF otr ho em s.T ra Gv uel te sr ys ’ MaTa ml ae ss co Tm re elt wo ipb so ok as on istr da ove ml
l t n r r t is I d ing r : av T n d W
sts“ i hE w v el a e l se wh fn aa’ b sts u h c e grkc lo yil t ,o n u ”r r gf n u “el tp d hi er f a hia t psem i rbl sa ay on c nc ke h s li t os r nt ty o r,r E” ay l g, l e“ dnh w oh wwi th hc e ah th n e r i h een c c o al n l mu s e ed e ae r rs v n a e e- d ra op tfo ho dr ec ik sre sM t eo yt sgh .,ue ir d as e 7io .enn 9xs 5pp lit orh pie bn ,,g R fo m 1ra o -od 8m s 2b 1y t 1eo 2M ep 0a a -r c 1ky b )te t rt h ie ph i r tobB ao og on s td , esg ri r as ’a sb 4
a e a e y b c h y k i d s n ( d $ r e m 8 5w e - k n d . s A M v e h r e
g sr ce ea nt ee s dt u ri in ns gp ir hea rt io sn t, a” n d-“ her secret life in the gay bar World: Journeys of the Heart edited by Marybet
Bond and Pamela Michael shows that, far from bens
has loved,” “her bitter
tives,” incompatible, motherhood and traveling can 8° a
in hand. Writers explore how being a mother 1s ia
the best assets a traveler can have. Includes w! nd
of tr ho em r s. Lo (u $i 1s 4e . 95 Erd pbr ,i ch 0, - 88K 5a 2t 1h 1l -2e 6e -n 0 .)D ea Tn ra veM leo rso ’r ae °
Sales and Marketing, c/o O'Reilly & cae iI
Morris St., Sebastopol CA 94472; 800-998-9938.
Between Mother and D able from most major wholesalers.
Her Mom Share the Secrets
hild
1-800-DeadBeat: How to Collect Your FI s
July/August 1999 Support by Simone Spence is an aggressive apP 3
94 Volume 22 NFe minist Bookstore
News
pto e a or pe lng ee tt st ”i w n hg oth c ath a i rl ed o n w 'e ts u t fp h oep oio lrr it nk gi df s a r ro m om o u nn de“ .ye r .r Ia tn Tt th ei ls ls se l is hf oi a s wh g ui toa d b e fs oe rn f eot -r gtH aha le n h td oa b no dd io b sk so eo mkf r no awm ta es th ife i rs ftM ro p mn u at b tr l i oe s na hl ed aH be oa i unl t 1h 9 c6 o8P r te rs it as . cw ea psW h iie ol nln e -
i n o i t n t
close on the home of someone who owes support, Since then, the handbook has provided basic infor-
how to order a sheriff seizure of property to be sold at mation on anatomy, sexuality, reproduction, and
action, place liens on bank accounts, and more. It also existing methods of contraception. The new edition
shows how to find those hidden assets, and even has a includes updated information on the female con-
section on how to get money out of someone who dom, Depo Provera, and new brands of pills as well
doesn’t havea job. A very smart guide from an expert as Internet resources. $5 per copy. Orders over 50
in this area; Spence heads the Spence Foundation, a copies receive bulk discounts of over 50%. Check the
nonprofit organization for the enforcement of child Web site for more details. Montreal Health Press
support. $19.95 pb, 0-9670647-0-8. Kentia Hall Press, Inc., PO Box 1000, Station Place du Park, Montreal
| PO Box 5 Cedar Grove NJ 07009; 877-4DEADBEAT. QU H2W 2N1, Canada; 514-282-1171, fax 514-282-
| Also available from B&T.
0262, email <mhpmontreal@msn.com>, Web site
<www.worldsfinest.com/mhp>.
Amazons: The Forgotten Tribe by Martha
Mattson is a straight womans journey into the gay and
| lesbian world. From the copy: “Learn about the mysteri-
ous relationships between the sexes — heterosexuals
) and homosexuals. What is it like to discover you're By Donna Niles
‘Married toa gay man? How many sexes are there — six? Celebrating the Crone: Rituals and Stories by
| Ormore? Learn about Genderblends.... The book tells the Ruth Gardner. With a forward by Patricia Monaghan,
teal causes of homosexuality (not your relationship this is another title to add to both your ritual and
_ With your father) and the pain of being without a fam- aging sections. There are guidelines for conducting a
lly.” Ym sure that Mattson is well intended, but her croning ceremony and many other ways to celebrate
200-animal approach bugs me, and the fact that this the lives of the wise ones in our midst. $12.95 pb,
‘Straight chick is reporting the “real causes of homo- 1-56718-292-5, September.
Sexuality” is either absurdly funny or downright Earth Time, Moon Time: Rediscovering the
1 offensive, depending on how seriously I choose to take Sacred Lunar Year by Annette Hinshaw. Attempting
i Finally, I didn’t much care for the Xena-like draw- to reconnect readers to the way our ancestors lived
mg on the front of the book; it led me to believe that I with the earth, this lovely book uses Celtic and
peuld literally be reading about Amazons, not gay and Germanic pagan calendars. Through journal rt
: pan folks in modern-day America. However, if you cises and an exploration of how astrology is based on
___bpen to have customers needing a book that explores the moon rather than the sun, this book starts .
yness from an (albeit presumptuous) securely connect this natural wisdom with the pees
. pht (but sympathetic) standpoint, this might be just world in which we live. $12.95 pb, 1-56718-396-4,
2 ticket. $16.95 pb, 0-965-89474-6. Amazon Press, PO September.
B “‘o Nx g ra2 m6 ,3 83 a, n d Sa Un n iqD ui ee .g o CA 92196. Available from B&T, aLi ps pa aT lHh ue n tt o. C e tl ht eAi c n De rwD r ga obg noo on k - loa vT n ea d rr s-o ,dt ec sb ck iy - fisD e. tJ f . a nt shC ,a o t n aw i ns a d y su tre ea en ,d to
a
e
_ Now available in a 30th anniversary edition, enthusiasts in your clientele. Lovely drawings.
1-56718-182-1, October.
mpletely Tevised and reissued: The Birth Control $29.95,——-
minist Bookstore NewS
Fe S) readable, her research is deep, and her
Y nS do eeu ne tr e cfC d cih L o ei da nf ar e et ai oP rtn wh tug e t ir h lp i sY ao uo s et iu pe b rh r o o or tb sky ' uC rs ia r a .e i 2 s e e $dr n: 1y e 2e s dT .a ih 9r ge 5s in fe eJ H dae pso ba ,r xn po a t o es C 1c rc l -o ieo h 5u em ep 6n nlee 7s cpn 1e et 8l ,R -o r e B 1fr e iv ta eP e 4h d ea -ia. e nl 9nD r ts d ,. s o e $pi tn h 2n lt e 0t ao e y sr e cpa Tt d ,i ha rfi e0ia in -tnsi 8ucn a Ctig lh on e 8a 1t ta ph -i en l7un ad eg cm tha -r i et n 7e n ol gui sra e b Ox ol o cp a oe f te n kor d t bir h ee ee ps rn r fo .c adu e cir , Etfc nf ie e c ews r e ri. e s t n ht H o e far r ne o o , l u ee rs m s b h -o m No s= e k e Sss si ts o rg sp
i i y h t h i k el i l s a l e 4 l 9 2 7 4 ,
i c m B o o
e fo e PN n an a ro t c v rh ie t i ch nTm d ie vh db aa oe ’ye c zF r a ee to. nG fm i so oi nt n sd n h i,ed i fe n y G ts e e .sos a odr u, dS p e cC ri M eso gr so si am ,t n np a ia p tg zrbn hy a ei y dho e aP prn na , r: t aar syg c i i ehc v rD i a e sa a ns ti ,l M ry ire o lo era n d M a fe se g o or md ns lh ei g la d.t in a a t.t ed T i di a tf o kf iFn e e obo rs n nyr - bH w 0k nee ah -n tl 8at o ie 9tw w on e nn 8e s 1an iD l e 8z s o en f ri B e s5e ya r o -m oc vg Xui h oey f? d r k mF tOo 5e hHl c, 0 ede to r i ow ce bce EM o eir x. m rn tD p .i e r. s l st ih ma e m eW wr :eo c ia non tp h tmd y ape or rct l me yai en h ean d ree n, mn e sa dai ica c Wv c c ru ee ib isp n ts eo i i isl bn n,o o l gc o e kat $ ol 1e n8 al h_
aa o w P o ,
o m o o r 2 - 4 ,
t s i g h O e a d y a S i s t e W t e
jb eo co t,k , it hi es lpa ls ro eai dn ed re sx ed ndb y sc pu ecl it fu ir ce , pG ro ayd ed re ss s, f or an sd p ecs iu fb i- c Drug Experience edited by Michael Horowitz ang
to fi
1-56718-463-4, November. Cynthia Palmer. From Charlotte Bronte to Carrie
purposes. $17.95 pb,
Tarot Journeys: Adventures in Self- Fisher, from Maya Angelou to Louisa May Alcott, this
Transformation by Yasmine Galenorn. Including anthology of writings by some of the most influential
meditations that flow like fables, this journey through women writers in print will surely provoke thought
the Major Arcana teaches about the spiritual nature of and vanquish stereotypes about women who have
the energy behind each archetype. The book comes used drugs. Not pictures of passive, addicted,
with an audio CD with selected meditations from the exploited, degraded, and promiscuous women, this
book. $19.95 pb, 1-56718-264-X, November. books conducts a brave exploration of women who
Llewellen Publications, PO Box 64383, St. Paul have sought to expand their levels of consciousness
MN 55164; 800-843-6666, fax 612-291-1908. Available and hoped to serve their vision of the world. $19.%
from BP, Koen, B&T, and Ingram. pb, 0-89281-757-7, February.
We The Great Goddess: Reverence of the Divine
Feminine from the Paleolithic to the Present by Jean
Markdale. This author of Women of the Celts, is a poet,
philosopher, scholar, and storyteller. This 265-page
The Cherokee Sacred Calendar: A Handbook of presentation of the goddess in cultures around the
the Ancient Native American Tradition by Raven world, a show of evidence of “her extraordinary pe
Hail. A tribal elder of the Cherokee Nation of manence and worship, even at the heart of the
Oklahoma has written about the Cherokee way of religions that tried to destroy her.” Yippie! $16.95 pb,
astrology. Here she provides insights into the 20 signs 0-89281-715-1, January.
and those born under their influence. $12.95 pb New in paper: Sirens: Symbols of Seduction by
0-89281-804-2, October. — Meri Lao. With gorgeous color plates of some
a is Kung for Women by Dominique Ferraro. well-known renditions of the mermaid in myth, this
ung 1s an ancient, low-impact, time-efficient book contains 160 color and black and white illustra
Series of exercises that reli eves stress, res I tions depicting sirens as perceived in patriarc™’
wc ia onl ms etr nh u ’e ca stl it i oh n, h eaaa lnn td hd , ph ir o ne t cb o la s ul da in a nc d ge cd ys r fe es $t ms 1h e t e H c u sh pen n bxd ,i u, q u -e iS 8s ta t 2e s 8p p 1- e -e b c 8y i 3.f- i 8s t 7e .p c wiu n il e nt d gu r ehe des r. e , T rh a ee s tL ul a re o eg se n td r wac ho ef os t sh ie r ae rl n ru s ir ’ ee eo vf o tl ht eh u e ti ir do ens o dn fg r o fmi rs omo f in e™ r i®
9a .l 9e a 0l y 5
. 5 9 - c a c d a
battlefield. $25, 0-89281-846-8, September.
hester vI
Inner Traditions, PO Box 388, Roc
802-767-3174. Available from B&T, No
05767;
na au tt ih oo nr , of d ro ev ae mr s ,3 0 ab no do ks l otso ns fe) f pi or tit h, e rh ea arl ei an sg ., m H a gic, divi- : Leaf, BP, or direct (for a 40% discount, Si
"Her style is
July/August 1999
Number”
Volume 2
<gUNIVERSITY PREFe SminisSt BoEokstoSre
N ews
FROM
SwahborttitBiHn el DOOTAMMISRAyREIOL Aes
| Bpy rM oe nv M Bil ol oer s/Min. neapolis
k , owa Poetry Prize ($10.95
pb, 0-87745-659-3) and The Oval Hour by Kathleen
Here’s one of those publishers that may not neatly Pierce, winner of a 1998 Iowa Poetry Prize ($10.95 pb,
" fitin the category of university or academic presses but 0-87745-664-X).
offer some important resources: Educational Equity Epistles from the Planet Photosynthesis by
Concepts, Inc., 114 East 32nd St., New York NY 10016; Mary Adams. $10.95 pb, 0-8130-1672-X; $19.95 cl,
| 912-725-1803, fax 212-725-0947, email <informa- -1670-3, University Press of Florida.
<www.edequity.org>. New Time by Leslie Scalapino. $11.95 pb,
tion@edequity.org>, Web site
| Bridging the Gap: A National Directory of Services 0-8195-6356-0, Wesleyan University Press/Univer-
|) for Women and Girls with Disabilities, Second Edi- sity Press of New England.
“tion, compiled by Ellen Rubin, edited by Merle Sofia by Joan Logghe, a bilingual edition trans-
Froschl, and developed by the national Clearinghouse lated into Spanish by Claire Joysmith and Arturo
on Women and Girls with Disabilities, includes infor- Salinas. $12 pb, 1-888809-11-6, La Alameda Press, dis-
| mation on 200 agencies and organizations that provide tributed by University of New Mexico Press. —Mev
"a wide variety of services and programs. Includes a Ohio Blue Tips by Jeanne E. Clark, winner of the
state-by-state index, information about which popula- 1997 Akron Poetry Prize, is a lovely collection set in
tions are served (e.g. youth, lesbians), and what sorts of Ohio’s middle farmland and peopled with the odd,
Tesources they provide (referral, research, training, damaged characters that only the Midwestern land-
‘direct services, etc.). Recommended. $24.95 spiral scape can produce (it’s my birthplace; I get to say
bound, 0-931629-16-0. Unfortunately, you can only things like that). Since being absolutely blown away
buy the guide direct from Educational Equity and the by University of Akron’s Her Slender Dress by Susan
discount May not be great, but they do offer some bulk Yuzna, I’ve been keeping an eye on their list. Ohio
—Mev Blue Tips certainly lives up to the standard set by
s discounts. Yuzna. From the book: “Doors swell shut this time of
Ka ty. I’m not a reliable critic for poetry year./Mold grows around their frames/Like the
| e ti ™t “, su re€n wu hn ai tv er tos i st ay y p ar be os us te s it. p Su ob ,l i hs eh r e’p so e at r ly is, t oI f’ m s on mo et jf ui sv te - to h’ ac tl o wc ak y ..s .h .a ”d o $w 12 .9o 5n pa b , hu 1s -b 8a 84n 8d 3' 6s - 44f -a 5ce ,. / U1 n il ve eft r sh ii tm y
of —TMR
ofthe newest poetry from university presses: of Akron Press.
| | _ After] Was Dead by Laura Mullen, winner of the 73
Contem:
on. POrary Poetry ry Series Compepteittiit ion. $15.95 pb,
0-8203-2096.x, University of Georgia. | .|
{
oe
—| || a Smo re q n e ée A r e ue bda oit n oew kd no ef na o s ut or Ie fr di aw s rok u is tl od a r mie sd o m eno b rr e ae t att nee drs eu i vit an e d us atf teoo r iar e s g e wn i te htr ah ta l a C ao l eu F hm i b n ta i pl oa l ly ie, iU cctn aohi le v r ce e de’r irs fs fi et ra y ew nfe P egr l a-e oyrs es es me ea tnr c h ae pn ad d s l 2t e 5u s d b yy i a an ri s sn .d i hc Gaa avt ye-
r e e I tc a c i. t tl e ku , i lt m on ns I i mn g t aa t h n n s o
c v r h e s t e
= n h e r e a . d t
July/August 1999
mute2 2 Number 2
97Bookstore News
Feminist
Penelope Deutscher and Kelly Oliver ;
da mtP ho n euoel d i ipt eU si ll mc ir ees ob s m, nb na ei -n naU tnr b kS wca ie ehotn cnt oi c en e nP g ro l n ri ls obt y cci c is sn e: R co .pt b h lI ne ed sr $e rt 2cn 2ot .eni gW 5rtt . 0aey thx it oB pa owa bn i ,od sl f pey 0b aa -1r nc 2o s 3i ae tt 1d u ea 0rtd 7e ps 6o S si ig ea y pc w ptr esoei ryrmt si ckpc oa nol r la m ec r a cao y d tl eel de rtF c uirt gcei i no sm ln c sp h ao yo r sn otp ra sh t ni e,h t txl e o lsw yoeco o rmopr ainhk nte ir r asio rnbf uw S t h la i eo dr ao ia tn ah esd i eK od io it nof ; eM n eaPS a K1 n t 9, Wfh 9 roa te m4 inoC hf nH ’Oi ge r n ,g .r.t
s cpv e t ms ni gl o a m i s o sx o o i i d n n t - e r ; T h e oh s e a ln l ty e et sh e y p ef e m ed , n d g n l st e r rrh y i l ih s ep r
a p e o a
a s g a h r e f c d h t
$49.50 cl, -09662-3.** $18.95 pb, 0-8014-8141-4.%**
Cornell University Press ;
Cornell has reissued The Morning Breaks: The Duke University Press
Trial of Angela Davis by Bettina Aptheker. Aptheker Where is Ana Mendieta?: Identity, Perfom
provides a new introduction that revisits crucial ativity, and Exile by Jane Blocker provides an in-depth
events of the late 60s and early 70s, putting Davis’ critical analysis of the work of Ana Mendieta, ,
case into the context of that time while reflecting on Cuban-born artist who lived in exile in the US. She
the significance those events still hold. This is a com- was one of the most provocative and complex
pelling firsthand account of Davis’ ordeal, written by personalities of the 70s art world. Her work includeg
an activist while she was intimately involved in the performance art, installation works, and earth works
struggle for her release. Recommended. $16.95 pb, from feminist, multiculturalist, and postmodernist
0-8014-8597-5.* vantage points. $17.95 pb, 0-8223-2324-9; $24.95 q,
Now available in paperback: Damned Women: -2304-4.
Sinners and Witches in Puritan New England by
Elizabeth Reis. $16.95, 0-8014-8611-4.** Harvard University Press
Enigmas: Essays on Sarah Kofman edited by In 1989, a woman was convicted of delivering a
controlled substance to a minor. The minor in ques-
tion was this disadvantaged Black woman’s unbom
HEARTBREAK HOTEL
child. Stephen Kandall, neonatologist and pediatri-
BY GABRIELLE BURTON
cian, testified on the woman’s behalf in her trial, and
writes about her experience in Substance and
“Bold and bawdy in its
Shadow: Women and Addiction in the United
humor, penetrating in its
HEARTBREAK HOTEI
States. In his analysis, he examines the annals of med-
GABRIELLE BURTON insight, this novel deserves
icine and history to learn how drug-dependent
to be a feminist classic.”—Ms.
women have been treated for the past century anda
‘) “Gabrielle Burton’s fantastic half. $16.95 pb, 0-674-85361-X.
novel gives us a glimpse of a In Has Feminism Changed Science?, Londa
future that is as far away as
last week's phone call from Schiebinger puts forth a history of women in science
your mother. ... You'll gasp and demonstrates how gender has shaped scientlt
in recognition—and
laugh knowledge. While debunking myths of how women
and laugh.”—Gloria
Steinem
do science (women are not intrinsically more holistic
“One of the great under- integrative, cooperative), she also provides a subtle
recognized novels of the late analysis of gender in the physical sciences, medicin®,
twentieth century.”—Linda archaeology, evolutionary biology, primatology, a
Gardiner , Women’n’ 's Rey : developmental biology. $27.95 cl, 0674-38138 7
eeof Books git —
en
DALKEY NYU Press
www.dalkA eR yC aH rI cV hE i veP .R cE oS mS MicheI lm ea gi Bane ar rra ret ta e’ ti s ’o se n loi nn -lo sT ng th -s ate a nno d dinr g i.y f io i nnc ttu ee s re ess t a na aa c lun yl t iut srh ao lr
g n g s °
July/August 1999 questions and shows how it informs her a? A
Volume 22 Numbedg
98Feminist Bookstore
News
rent developments in social and feminist theory. types of violence that women report to the courts
Taking culture, theory and writing as its themes, the how judges exercise authority in restraining order
book “translates” across the barriers between the meetings, and the effect of the courts on women’s
humanities and social sciences, raising a number of efforts to escape violence. $20 pb, 1-55553-390-6,
important — and controversial — issues. $17.95 pb, Now available in a new edition celebrating the
0-8147-1344-0; $55 cl, -1343-2.*** 75th anniversary of Grace Metalious’ birth: Peyton
Gender Camouflage: Women and the U.S. Place, with an introduction from Ardis Cameron.
Military edited by Francine D’Amico and Laurie $13.95 pb, 1-55553-400-7. —TMR
Weinstein explores women’s many and varied rela-
tionships with the military institution, not only as
insiders (soldiers and wives), but also as outsiders
(defense industry workers, USO volunteers, prosti-
tutes, peace workers). Additionally, analytical Ohio University Press
chapters are paired with short first-person narratives Your Madness, Not Mine: Stories of Cameroon
by women who have been there — female civilian by Makuchi with an introduction by Eloise Briere
contains short stories which represent the yearnings
instructors, an African American Air Force Nurse
' Corps veteran, and others. $19.95 pb, 0-8147-1907-4; and vision of an Anglophone woman who writes both
as a Cameroonian and as a woman whose life has
$55 cl, -1906-6.*
been shaped by the minority status her people occupy
Northeastern University Press within the nation-state. Though the stories deal with
In the 1930s, journalist and novelist Josephine post-colonial issues, they are more about Cameroo-
Herbst (1892-1969) was widely regarded as one of the nian women, their day-to-day experiences of survival
“most important women writers in America. The and empowerment as they deal with gender oppres-
Starched Blue Sky of Spain and Other Memoirs by sion. $16.95 pb, 0-89680-206-X.*
Herbst provides reminiscences and portraits of her
Oxford University Press
intellectual, artistic, and political life in the early 20th
century and her Bohemian life and travels. $16.95 pb, Now available in paperback: Nineteenth-
1-55553-399-X.* Century Women Poets: An Oxford Anthology
____ Reprint available: The Diary of Alice James edited edited by Isobel Armstrong and Joseph Bristow.
—Mev
! by eLe rBo an t t oE fed e rl e J. d d$ i16 cW. io9 a5 lm epb n R, s1- pi5 on5 n5 s5 t3 eh- se3 97- C b3 o y. u* r Jt ar mo eo m: — tM aT ce h ev e $ W1 e9 l. l9 s5 T , o b0 yK - e1 e L9 ip- 8 d1 t a8 h 4 e8 O3 .W- a2 t. Me cr Ms rT rr you bl ise d t: T bh ie gL ri af pe hyof I ofd a thB e.
w u e s P k n u he o
- . c T TBh€ “w i tx g so Sva h sy tem t :m e s ti on n nte to pas ns s ge ee e e sknest ik tk oth oi re rha nn depb .g rl ra oi sdc tsl t e e rh ei g c ee aao t cd gln i s co on nr hl e sieao d tzff wr rrse dsoo as elj ms ru . ug sd si ag efv be I rin u es n s og i ’lt v ih or re e e w s jioa m olp if em do t n ste gn e y, nd r sdmi s an tt rg u alh d be iii ug ene na st o wgsl -o f o p W f “eou na sl grt dm uhla s o ths brp su’ oy ,go s rek lgc dne o br df iuan nu na s rB ata ;eo c i td i po ov e aki an rl e Wnw ter a di elg r rd da li aee Tg i cD. ,h n iut ws s W st a oa yaBnsw sl o sdo h iy sr ui tn ’ sk wcn s tie h mg no itr i ert cm hn i so e vg anI dld va i tee n oaa v f cn iB oet. ard nnh ihe hW setr ee W a1 c il . sc8 o rl E e b9 ns f. 0 oe, sB wrs ti. l wd e aa m e a D drc sa ou eeo end r .dn e ns t p h ee rii hm pe c- h . r ee -r
a ea w c P o in c rc ie a t r ee o n o g t n e be j u o d g hsp s o c a e b in ee n tf o o g vc r a t W H ie a r s i a n l i t o tn n c s w e r m e i c u g e e a
r a i e a i t n a e s a lw a a f o m t t h o uH o e
H n s i w u e r a j e t c
e
ttered women and the crime of battering, the
July/August 1999
© 22 Number 2 99Feminist Bookstore News
Princeton University ee 7
biography- $30 cl,
fascinating and important Apparently I’m not the on
0-19- F5 e08 m8 i1 n2 i- s3 m. s, an Oxford reader edited by Sandra Sde ar pe pd h oh o sw i ncw ee mc oa sn t ha ofv e hes r uc wh ora k L exe iste s i n eb ha Stuteg*
Kemp and Judith Squires is a large (600 pages) and Victorian Sappho by Yopie Prins traces ones
hbSAdc co raxmm -tp hr e tmh ee rn sss i lVv de c yio tl til re ic mt i So pn co af ,ep ei fse ec mde s gd tur eba jw aen hf evr o rm iea asc neoa drn- “tg foae rtn iec -e pto hf et sdh ni itis ni ad me ecEa il ti yiilz ate ld yuf te nm ipi anpn ngi n are G e twan ne ia© ae cm lie .r ln,
aoee dsa ui a d lc e i t i taif ece se , cm oi ,n ai i ss st u sE a al p s ai t u s re d t s i ,o e s m . o a n il d voD gi T v i i cd Ehe l, n ao il no ei S n i t o hs o, s cc e aatc lt di t te i mo i n ,irt e s ci a ad n, r l Se ac pa So pn an 1 hps 9 opt ’eh r sr- ou ”ic ’c o t u o ir s in y ao r pnf g c a nh n e wd a. t sS r S ha eh e h ai pc rrg o ku i ine atsf r i e oe t n h a e- stV coi ,
s i a e G f o s u h k i n i s S w e o s r e c nt o ; w o t f c e f = V t i
Rosi Braidotti. $19.95 pb, 0-19-289270-3.
In Sex and Social Justice, Martha C. Nussbaum, poetics. $18.95 pb, 0-691-05919-5; $55 cl, 05918-7404
who has worked with an international development Of related interest: Edith Wharton: The Un
agency connected with the United Nations for a num- lected Critical Writings edited by Fredeael
ber of years, articulates a conception of feminism that Wegener. $18.95 pb, 0-691-00269-X.
links to global development. Her feminism is deeply
invested in the needs of women who live in hunger
and illiteracy or under unequal legal systems, and
puts forth a universal account of human capacity and
need while also emphasizing local differences. $35 cl, Rowman and Littlefield
0-19-511032-3. —TMR Beyond Zero Tolerance: Discrimination in Mil-
itary Culture edited by Mary Fainsod Katzenstein
Penn State Press and Judith Reppy is an examination of the military's
Gender Politics in the Western Balkans: Women repeated sex scandals and racial tensions despite its
and Society in Yugoslavia and the Yugoslav exemplary set of rules on race relations and gender
Successor States edited by Sabrina P. Ramet provides discrimination. The contributors delve into the rea-
a social and political history of South Slav women in sons underlying this paradox, exposing how the
the 20th century. Covers Slovenia, Serbia, Croatia, norms of institutional life encourage harassment and
Kosovo, and Bosnia. $18.95 pb, 0-271-01802-X.—TMR discrimination. Overall, the collection recommends
NEW from Renditions Paperbacks
Hong Kong Stories: Old Themes New Voices
ISBN 962-7255-20-3 160pp. 1999 US$14.95
2 eae cee - Hong Kong writers speaking in a
By ae ice about the life and thou ghts of Hong Kong.
Marvels of a F. loating City
ISBN 96,2 -7255-18-] 1997
Xx+106 pp. US$14.95
My City: a hongkong story
ae 962-7255-1 1-4 xvii+180 pp. 1993 US$14.95
irl Like Me and Other Stories
BN 962-7255-19-X
136 PP. 1996 US$14.95
Renditiit ions Sees are dia st ributed in the United States By Cheng & Tsui Co.
ur website: http://www.cuhk.edu.hk/renditions
July / August 1999 ‘i
Volume2 2 Numba
100ze
Feminist
Bookstore
News
=e =
——
l changes i dn et mhe o gm ri ali pt ha iry c cu pl ot ou lr e tt hh aa tt w cil ol m ps ru ip sp eo srt tt hh ee - e renla ts t h aa rl ef naof s the o f 20 at ch t ic oe nn tur ay n, d it examines five i ti dif-
} tdi ev aer s nte iaU nS jm oi ul ri nt aa lr iy s. $ L2 o3. u9 i5 pb, i0 l1- l38 i4 a7 m6 s- 93 s1 h5 a- t5 t. institutions, workplaces, social nee can
e - tdraayl t s e W e rs
tions, and feminisms. $20 pb, 0-8135-2639-0,"*_Mo,
he rayth of the submissive Asian woman in Wives, Margorie Agosin is at it again. The extremel
Mistresses, and Matriarchs. Williams heard stories prolific writer/editor has another anthology af
from both famous and unknown women, such as this time from Rutgers: Map of Hope: Women Writ-
| Benazir Bhutto, Corazon Aquino, Aung San Suu Kyi, ing on Human Rights — An International Literary
a former Viet Cong commando, a Jakarta factory girl, Anthology is a collection of women’s writing of
4 Korean publisher, and a “second wife” in a Chinese resistance and human rights. Includes 77 literary
mistress village that serves Hong Kong’s wealthy works from such writers as Barbara Kingsolver,
men. Her analysis explores how a culture can place Anne Frank, Rosario Castellanos, Marguerite Duras,
women at the top of industrial conglomerates while Adrienne Rich, Mitsuye Yamada, Hisaye
simultaneously condoning women’s sale into servi- Yamamoto, and others. An important collection of
" tude. $17.95 pb, 0-8476-9139-X. work from some of the world’s foremost women
Mother Time: Women, Aging, and Ethics edited writers. $18 pb, 0-8135-2626-4. —TMR
by Margaret Urban Walker presents discussions on ‘Le
{
the ethical dimension of women’s experiences of
aging. The contibutors examine the assumptions,
experiences, and public policies affecting women’s
well-being and dignity in later life. $26.95 cl, Sage Publications
| 0-8476-9260-4. All titles are short discount, with an agency plan
| Comfort Woman: A Filipina’s Story of Prostitu- available.
| tion and Slavery Under the Japanese Military by Revisioning Gender edited by Myra Marx
| Maria Rosa Henson (1928-1996) is the autobiography Ferree, Judith Lorder, and Beth Hess is a comprehen-
ofone of the many women taken by Japanese soldiers sive handbook which summarizes the state of gender
9O a c .c hu ep P rry oi s cn t hg i it lt u dh te hi ooP n o h di asl i a“p s p ci o tn m he f es o r iti ln lw eW go o ir m tl e id mn a . t”W e a r H d e aI unI gsa hon tnd e rf wo rr i oc t fe ed s a s t hht oeu w d i pe as ts ht e no dt qe uc eo a sn d tl e iy , o nb sy b ute c ex nba y tm ri an le i ncn tog o u r st a th ge u i dn yc igru n c gi ta hl go eur nge dhs ete r a r ac b hh o a u vo t ef .
| oy landowner, her work for Huk guerrillas, her changed. $35.95 pb, 0-7619-0 a6 n1 d7 -7. B" i" s" e xual pines
| Ho sth e °e la ion d ih rte thr hm ea rr cr li nfa eg de crt ro la fr oe reb re Hl el ye ewa id ne gr clT lir se sa tt usi n yg a n od gL lee S ts sr bb Ga ii rt aa ue nn cg si us ae ns nf tbo ir vH oe iua dal slt h cas neo tnae ae rae
: a i ‘ id ent te y8f t ash p e ur b a ct oc mT fa w oi s e h we r o m ah ii l r s se t eon y e,a t o an f e t . 5 0ke r e p ai rl sl - , bC cy rh i a til E l ae n bg ee t h d P a fi e k ri rn d p r so e v x i d e ,s w o n m o e me ps o ra m ye
e
a|| | RP Wb ua, ts0 ga- Ee 8 r4f si e7 n6al. U 5 na1 ic 4t v 0 eo. rf7 s oist ltr y te in cg P st rh e is nii s n La an ini nc Are md ei rbible il ce eli e pi W ii $s sr 2nrs 6co i uu .lb t ee 9ul t ss 5d ,e e e m n s ps— b, s rf u er 0a c -a on h 7n ma 6d l y t 9oz t -pi f h 0iu en cc tg os 4u 5r cp -e a eu 4s rb nl "d h si "i ,oc "r me o ac ph nt e h di a o oln b sts i eh va e, rf ao P lr Bos ©oa e a su teo e s x
e P i t a by Nik ki s p a , n t i n 1 g 0 n .
a : faptues a comprehensive view of women’s Battered Women —, —C —hil —dr —en —,
interest:
Of related
__* Participation in Latin America. Focusing on July/August 1999
101hs
Bookstore News
Feminist
to language. A range of contemporar
: ; femin;
cal writers are discussed: Gloria Ge Crit;
,
Butler, Rachel DuPlessis, Donna Ha; % Judith,
Irigaray, Trinh Minh-ha, and other aWay, Uce
0-7914-4014-1.**** S- $19.95 5p
’
Also of interest: Ethical Dilemmas ;
Research: The Politics of Location, fate Feminig,
LEVESQUE
ROGER]. R. and Publication by Gesa E. Kirsch gis
How can international human rights law be 0-7914-4210-1***), Language and Lip. PY
ca bu eb os ue usd na e tl? rlt yoo w S eh h ide ol n up t l t eod rp vr edo it nt fh ee fe ec rt i d n aec f m th i hoi n el ni d t gr i i e o nn n tc eu rla not t af u lr r i s es e s wk x ? ou rf ao kl Sr i h nos ga ue sb lx u du s a e ol f a 0CF h -e r 7m i 9i s 1n t 4ii -n 4s a 0m 5, 2 -H 4e *P n *h d *i r )l ,io cs ko sp Eh my ba, n r d o ia dn K ed e r ll iy nL gan Og liu Lv ia e vg r ee s. se Ho eue pb by ,
another with whom they disagree about ap- Work and Skill in the Lucknow Embroidery Indien
Tp hr io sa ch be os to bet gh ie nsi ss tu he e? by Clare Wilkinson-Weber ($22.95 Ustry
o k process of addressing
these and other issues. Roger Levesque places 0-7914-4088-5*™*), and Che Bella Figura!: The Pou
particular emphasis on the ways in which abu- of Performance in an Italian Ladies’ Club in Chicagy
sive activities in different countries and societies are linked with one an- by Gloria Nardini ($19.95 pb, 0-7914-4091-5***), ago
other and the way diverse societal views of children place them at risk.
Throughout, Levesque brings together several intersecting debates in so-
cial science and law, as he pragmatically considers human rights law as a Teachers College Press
tool for combatting child sexual maltreatment. 574 pages cloth $39.95 Gay Parents/Straight Schools by Virginia
Casper and Steven Schulltz addresses the specific
at bookstores
INDIANA UNIVERSITY PRESS educational needs and realities of gay- and
lesbian-parented families. Based on research from
Orders: 1-800-842-6796 www.indiana.edu/~iupress
parents, teachers, and children, the book covers
homophobia at school and home, communication
and Welfare Reform: The Ties That Bind edited by between lesbian and gay parents and the school,
Ruth A. Brandwein ($24.95 pb, 0-7619-1149-9***), gender roles and role modeling, curriculum planning
Gender in the Workplace: A Case Study Approach that invites gay and lesbian parents into the school
by Jacqueline DeLaat ($19.95 pb, 0-7619-1479-X***), environment, and making connections between
and Poverty and Children’s Adjustment by Suniya children’s family experiences and school experiences.
Luthar ($24.95 pb, 0-7619-0519-7***). $19.95 pb, 0-8077-3824-7. —TMR
State University of New York (SUNY)
I love the creative insight in this next title and
wonder why it took so long for someone to write in
depth about it. Mother’s Taxi: Sport and Women’s Temple University Press
Labor by Shona M. Thompson provides a detailed We know that crack cocaine has seriously
study on how women — moms in particular — affected women’s lives. Fast Lives: Women Who Use
facilitate and service the sport played by other
Crack Cocaine by Claire E. Sterk offers an in-depth
ey re immediate family members. In aie look at the complex lives, struggles, and dilemmas °
ays, this largely ignored ar lit
contributed to ted women who use crack cocaine. Sterk details hoi
ans these women arrived at their use, how they SUV We
as oe tenes $24.95 pb, 0-7914-4060-5 ie sag the continued threat of HIV/AIDS and violence, how
Bideeen, uuens e es f: t. h eoreeteiceal ! P roje ecte —ca lledr y “HR ea at rh hth oe wy td he eyv el co op bia nn ed thm ea i sn ot ca iai ln roi len st im ofa t me thr eel ra ti ao nn ds h Bip a»
- m o
cw ea te . 8Msa oo e o an iO cl eag ga dB r To au rm a es dt’ ey me ia nr in sqi tun eg af io nr msa u pts e vr e, ta yn ,od sh eto xhw mt ,fh ue ty dem .a i rn aUt cna idi sn rsa ns p oi trr ea int ri o ln is sea n d ee rx kp ce cc as?
f a te mag l e vn og u e a . n vh i s i h e fo r y s c t li o s i o. o n s r f r ie s au nr e m ic hi g vt eh , Se tf f e t l l 0 s ;
July/August 1999
umber
Volume 22 N
102Feminist
Bookstore
News
mM : ‘cjes that are realistic and appropriate for
| BPf eo r es j o ac bi i rthO as v ina il Ap a mb b, el re i1 - c5 ai6 n 63 bp9 y- a 6 p7 Je2 ur- db7 ia. thc* * k : enM cei dw Ri of oe ksr y & w 0M -aa 5rk e 0:O f G eW 1ri 4on 9mt m 5e ae -r ne 0ns y ,t 4: 0: a nW byd h a Mt Ea lr ii eD zti aaf blf ne Sr te a n tc ue s eD i. no eNe maez ai H anu ds 4b 5Pa on std cl-
P is a 2 - 2 i n n , $ ,
» | definitive account of the many disciplines that inter-
he * | | s ect a t the issue of childbirth, combined with University of Chicago Press
_ inform ative history of midwifery in the U.S. $34.95, Now available in paperback:
- 4-56639-711- 1 OF Child, Fifth Edition revise and ne Sie
"University of Arizona Press $E 2d 9n ,a 0-H 2e 2l 6f -e 3r 2, 6 23R -u 3t ,h Kempe, and Richard Kraeaiar,
—Mev
New Latina Narrative: The Feminine Space of Speaking of Abortion: Television and Author-
| Postmodern Ethnicity by Ellen McCracken is an ity in the Lives of Women by Andrea L. Press and
in-depth study of a group that has had a tremendous Elizabeth R. Cole is an exploration of the role of the
recent effect on American literature: Latinas writing media in the abortion debate. Press and Cole talked to
in the U.S. The book explores how Mexican Ameri- pro-life and pro-choice women and discovered that
can, Puerto Rican, Cuban American, and Dominican while pro-lifers generally held the same beliefs across
American women have redefined concepts of multi- class, pro-choicers’ beliefs were often divided along
culturalism and diversity in American society. class lines. An interesting study of the Ways in which
Includes discussions of the work of Julia Alvarez, “ordinary women” frame this volatile issue. $25 cl,
Denise Chavez, Sandra Cisneros, and more. $19.95 0-226-68031-2. —TMR
| pb, 0-8165-1941-2.
| Speaking Chicana: Voice, Power, and Identity University of Georgia Press
| edited by D. Letticia Galindo and Maria Dolores
Survival Rates, stories by Mary Clyde, was a
| Gonzales examines language issues among Chicanas. winner of the Flannery O’Connor award for short fic-
P This collection includes both empirical essays and tion. The location is primarily the desert Southwest,
_ Personal narratives, making this an interdisciplinary the characters are pioneers of Mormon heritage, and
study of linguistics that incorporates art, law, the settings are harsh, indifferent, and patient. $24.95
v omen’s studies, and literature. $19.95 pb, cl, 0-8203-2049-8.
| 0-8065-1815-7. —TMR
University of California Press
| ___ There were, of course, grandmothers among the
_ Mothers of the Plaza de Mayo—women who resisted University of lowa
| the Argentinean military government and demanded For those with strong poetry sections and or
| the teturn of their “disappeared” children. Searching education sections, I highly recommend Learning by
| for Life: The Grandmothers of the Plaza de Mayo Heart; Contemporary American Poetry About
| and the Disappeared Children of Argentina by Rita Schools edited by Maggie Anderson and David
| Arditti (co-founder of New Words bookstore 25 years Hassler. It brings together a diverse collection of
| & Provides moving accounts of grandmothers poems about the experience of school (both from stu-
A. arching for their grandchildren who were either dents’ and teachers’ points of view). They capture a
“'Sappeared along with their parents or born in cap- best and the worst of the educational process not only
aa ; The Oppressive regime gave these children new in the classroom but also in the library, the rently
| = fo and then gave them over to military fami- on playing fields, and at dances. Too bad it's so expe
| _-° 10r adoption. This important book recounts the sive. $29.95 cl, 0-87745-662-3.*
ja a work of the Grandmothers and makes
| ‘= the implications for children who are not pro- niversity of Kentucky Press _
by international amnesty arrangements. $17.95 eae the basic boundaries for women
0-520-21570-2.* performers and their characters have stretched, they
July/August 1999
fume’ 22 Number 2 103Fe hm ai vn ei st no t Bo fo uk ns dt ao mr ene t aN lle yw s re aeis ais Seone eof nth e $st 4a 9t .e 9s 5 a cln , d -31e 4c 5o -n Xo .*m *i *e )s . ($19.95 S bu , hc 0-i 81o 6e 6- 6 31469 ij
SMEm ona ctn ahey er nt e.a it nh See hrm es Me s nein pi n T ow reF enr sto m i e ht hM -a ce C e ren eett ro u sr y a Am ee P ina = i AVM n oe ee E e b ty onsC yF n wa t ik h ti i hn a g CuWIt be: abU e.S r a. ndH a ne a og l te y hz em reo sn Cy aU r.S ii . n ba er o al“ neP o is cnt o- ufP nor bh e aa : h si o C’ n TeB® lr a
a x) l t e a eo f a ad i b e a
1959. From the blub: “In tracing...U.S. intervention.
S vie ea wss an2 r oe pia nl os, w soe mx oea fm n i , wn oi man n eg d as Sc oo cn hv ee ny or ps loof t a c the a t lih ce uC na dr ei rb be Ja ohn n s— o n,i ts oi f nv Ga rs ei no an daof t uh ne deD ro mi Rn ei ac ga an n R ans
d i n n .
w tho m ie nn ocp ee nr fo yr om ue nr gs mf aal il dei nnt o (et .gh .r e Me arb yas i Pc icr ko fl oe rs: d ); a vy e, uP na dn ea rm a Clu in nd toe nr —Bu sh W, e ba es rw el cl o na ts e nit ds si nt te hr atv en Ut ni io tn e d in sf a eo f
e n t
ith ne es pe ex nua dl ntt em wpt or me as ns (e (. eg .. M Ka ae heW re ist n) e; Ha en pd uL ri nli )t .h , $t 2h 5e dpo il si pc ly a ci en meth ne t sC ar ofi b cb ae sa tn ra tc io on ns is at ns x ieo tf y .a s Se ir ni ce es o 1f 9 5s 9t at te hes n
d e g - t b
Weber argues that the U.S. has been ‘faking iv ~
0-8131-2112-4.**
cl,
Of related interest: Take It from the Big Mouth: being a straight, masculine, hegemonic identity ang
The Life of Martha Raye by Jean Maddern Pitrone. the phallic power that comes with such an identity.”
$25 cl, 0-8131-2110-8.* Weber also locates “queerness” in popular conce
Also of interest: Albanian Escape: The True tions of the U.S. Both searing and hilarious. $14.95 pb,
—TMR
Story of U.S. Army Nurses Behind Enemy Lines by 0-8166-3270-7.
Agnes Jensen Manderich as told to Evelyn Monahan
and Rosemary Neidel. $25 cl, 0-8131-2109-4.* University of Mississippi
Jane Campion: Interviews edited by Virginia
Wright Wexman collects interviews with the
| acclaimed New Zealand director whose dossier
! includes The Piano, An Angel at My Table, and Portrait
University of Minnesota Press of a Lady. $18 pb, 1-57806-083-4. —TMR
Feminism and Documentary edited by Diane
Waldman and Janet Walker contains a number of University of Nebraska
essays written by prominent scholars and filmmakers The Land of Many Colors and Nanna-Ya by
that demonstrate the challenges feminist perspectives Maryse Condé are stories which explore the difficul-
pose for documentary theory, history, and practice. ties of reconstructing historical narratives and
They also examine the relationship between gender recovering the experiences of people of color in the
and sexuality, race and ethnicity, class and nation. Caribbean. Condé won international acclaim for her
$19.95 pb, 0-8166-3007-0; $49.95 cl, -3006-2.*** novel Children of Segu. $12 pb, 0-8032-6395-3.*
Minnesota offers two new volumes of interest
for those with strong international studies sections. University of New Mexico Press 5
Fields of Protest: Women’s Movements in India by Leslie Marmon Silko: A Collection of Critic
Raka Ray offers insight into the long and rich his- Essays edited by Louise Barnett and James a
tory in which women live, work, and struggle to offers 13 essays in this first collection devoted an
survive — through fighting for safe contraception, to Silko’s work. They present new perspectives os he
ee ae al and resisting forms fiction and provide a deeper understanding = a
work. Silko’s important short fiction, her non oie
cal and social circu Msetaencees. undt er e wh ichi s woe ma el n essays, and her novel Almanac of the Dead ee aing
organize for their rights and self-w ined through a range of critical approaches Inc .
0-8166-3132-8; $49 95 el, [Cee fSimiklarl y, the postmodern. $45 cl, 0-8263-2033-3.""
TS rp aac ne ss n ato if onT ah lei r ChO iw nn a: eW do itm ee dn ’ bs MPu ab yl fi ac trS p Mh ee ir -e uiin WAl os mo enof in at ne dr est P: liW te alH av Pe tiC eo s,m e 18t 8o -S 1t 9ay 6? A ©m de ir tei
y i H can o ic ar 0 0
CY ha in ng e se ex pl wor oe ms e nh ow cot nh te inp uu eb lic t o an bed p co ol ni sti tc ral a inl eiv de s bo yf b Iy s raeM le sl a Pn ei re ry . Gu $1s 7t .a 9f 5s o pn b, , 0K -r 8i 2st 6i 3e - 19M 7i 0lfl -e Xr ;, $a 3n 5d ¢lE l 4i 1i 9s ca 6a 9b -e 6
July /August 1999 Number
Volume 22
104Feminist
Bookstore
News
- GU C"n iv oBe grs rei at p y hy ao if p n es CN o or not tfh e mtC phea o r ro aNl rei ywn a WoWe ms et n: ’ s Ge Wn rd ie tr i ng an bd y sEM uma rik pli ry in sg iH ne gr lH r yi i s nt g go or oy W i lsb poy n i. M a $ fr 2 og 9 ra .9r t5e et cl s, S zeu 0 p -p o8 fl 0 e 7 te h8 e- 2S b4m oo6i kt 3 !h - 1 * *a n (d A
d r ce h i )
Krista Comer surveys the works of Joan Didion,
Mi axine Hong Kingston, Leslie Marmon Silko, University of Wisconsin
SW Barbara Kingsolver, Louise Erdrich, and Sandra Nancy Abrams has written about her experi-
Cisneros among others to show how these and other ence as a lesbian co-parent fighting (and losing) her
contemporary women writers have mapped new right to see her daughter in The Other Mother: A
geographical imaginations upon the cultural and Lesbian’s Fight for Her Daughter. Abrams and her
social spaces of today’s American West. Comer partner separated when their daughter was six.
argues that publishers, media, and literary scholars When Abrams lost custody, she was told that legally,
have ignored these writers and their views of race she was no more than “a biological stranger” to the
and gender and have perpetuated masculinist child she helped bring into the world and raise. Her
visions of the American West. $18.95 pb, memoir explores the social, legal, and political
0-8078-4813-1; $45 cl, -2485-2. implications of gay and lesbian parenting and asks
Those interested in strong, powerful autobiogra-
the question, “What makes a mother?” $19.95 pb,
phies will want to have the two new reissues of the 0-299-16494-2, September.
autobiographies of Mary E. Mebane. Mary: An Taboo by Boyer Rickel is the first book in the
Autobiography recalls the joys and pain of her coun- University of Wisconsin’s Living Out: Gay and
ty childhood, her alienation from her family and Lesbian Biographies series. Taboo is a collection of
community, and ends with her hard-won graduation sixteen vignettes of “a life in progress” from poet
ollege. ($16.50 pb, 0-8078-4821-2.*) Mary, Rickel’s childhood in the 50s to the present day.
t: An Autobiography continues with $14.95 cl, 0-299-16260-5. —TMR
nes struggle to create meaning in her life, her
© as a participant and observer in the Black free- University Press of New England
truggle, and finally her joy in discovering Available in a new edition: Roxana Robinson’s
ting. ($17.95 pb, 0-8078-4822-0.*) enormous (600+ pages) and thorough biography,
J _Women have contributed greatly in the history Georgia O’Keeffe: A Life. “This is without question
‘the U.S. but are often ignored or just plain misun- the best book ever written on O'Keeffe.” —New
food. Such is the case of nuns who did more than Yorker. $19.95 pb, 0-87451-906-3. —TMR
T lost souls or swat misbehaved school chil-
On the knuckles. Spirited Lives: How Nuns University Press of Virginia
4 ped Catholic Culture and American Life, New edition available: The Charl otte Perkins ;
1920 by Carol Coburn and Martha Smith seeks Gilman Reader edited by Ann J. Lane collects i )
el false stereotypes and media misrepresenta- Gilman’s short fiction pieces, including The ns on
Portray the many pioneering and powerful Wallpaper” and a section from Herland, Gi sae
nuns executed as they established and feminist Utopia. $14.50 pb, 0-8139-1876-6. —
ded education, health care, and social services
) immigrant and native populations. $19.95 Yale University Press 2
3078-4774-+7#+ JuO df thi nt He ure gs ht e: s.F re $3u 5d i ca ln 0-300An -a l 0y 7s 5t 24s -/ 3F .e *m *i *n *i st Issues
, Oo
by i
€gional interest: North Carolina Women:
July/August 1999Bookstore News
Feminist
OOLSB Fe CHANGE
aw UNDERSTANDING
The Invitation
Oriah Mountain Dreamer
0-06-251584-5 * $16 * hc
“The Invitation will appeal to the
many readers seeking quality books
that invoke everyday spiritual magic
and soul. I highly endorse it!”
—PATRICE WYNNE,
Gaia Bookstore, Berkeley, CA
——
ga
=. , ~
TeF THIS LONGING
- » ethe seven saeted paths “P
x OF human transtormatio j it Qetsat interest me what RECONCILING A SPIRITUAL HUNGER
AND A FEMINIST THIRST
you 3e for 2 Wing. twant te
knew what you ache fo
3nd if you Dive te Iream
af meeting your Wearts
Dancing the Dream longing . iC doesnt At the Root of This Longing
interest me Row ol)
Jamie Sams Carol Flinders
0-06-251514-4 * $13 * pb you dre. (Want to
Know if you Willysk 0-06-251315-X * $13 * pb
“A magnificent blueprint (ooking (ke 2 fool fer . “In the spirit of Women Who Run
for transformation.” (ove, for your Dream, With the Wolves and Reviving
—LARRY DOSSEY, tor the Wenture Ophelia, this book has the
author of Healing Words of being alive... % potential to change lives.”
THE. INVITATION _— Publishers Weekly
tau
m HarperSanFrancisco
A: Di've vision ooff F larperCCoollllii nsPublishers
tp//www.-harpercollins.com
July/August 1999
7 Number”
106 Volume—
Feminist
Bookstore
News
—$_ re News
©,yxp oN PUBLISHER’S
ROW
| é
[oul
| Compiled by Teri Mae Rutledge Spalding ultimately “confronts the sad failure of a
woman desperate to mother a Species to survival and
Algonquin discovers the dangers and temptations of ecotourism
\ | LiteraS rt ya c Se uy ppD l’ eE mr ena ts ,m o, s pew nh ti le s evs ee nn io yr e ae rd si to ar s siat g nt ih ne g Vo ai nc de a thn ed tht ih ne gsa r wr eo ga sen tc e of t sh ae veh .”u m $a 2n .95i nc cll ,i n 1a -t 5i 6o 5n 2-t 2o 26a -l 7te ,r
o ut t o 2 1
writing book reviews. With the publication of Tea,
—TMR
| p’Erasmo moves from critic to novelist. Tea begins in
| 1968 as eight-year-old Isabel sets out tea for her Avon
unpredictable, moody mother. But her mother’s tea The Athletic Woman’s Sourcebook: How to
goes untouched that day. Then her mother kills her- Stay Healthy and Competitive in Any Sport by Janis
self. As Isabel floats through life in the wake of her Graham. Information is offered here ona broad range
mother’s death, she continuously falls in and out of of topics including: sports medicine, mental strategies
love. First with Ann, a born-again, at eight. Then at 16 to achieve goals, the needs of the older female athlete,
with Lottie, who “never apologizes and never injury-reducing strategies, cross-training references,
explains.” At 17 with theatrical feminist Rebecca. And info on sports clothing, and much more. $12.50 pb,
| again at 22 with avant-garde filmmaker Thea. Tea 0-380-79667-8, August.
| Speaks to those who discovered they were gay and Tale of a Sky-Blue Dress by Thylia Moss. Here is
"had to find a way to tell the rest of the world. And it a memoir that reads like poetry, the story of the only
| Speaks to anyone who has struggled to carve out a child of a maid and a factory worker who move to
"Place for themselves against a tragic family history.” Ohio from the segregated South in the 50s. Raised ina
} $21.95 cl, 1-56512-243-7. —Jessie Mabry loving home, Thylia flourishes until the age of five
i. Lioness Books/Sacramento when disaster strikes in the form of a girl ina sky-blue
dress. $13.50 pb, 0-380-79362-8.
Al:
The Premature Menopause Book: When the
Change of Life Comes Too Early by Kathy Petras.
This book is not only for the growing number of
hee Ossey, Jane Goodall, and Biruté Galdikas young women expe riencing menopuase naturally,
if ic, ed by Louis Leakey a “trio of angels” — but also for those p lunged into it prematurely by
or au ct eoi sm mune
| wild. cor he encouraged to study great apes in the hysterectomies, cancer treatments,
aSp ba ol ud ti n eea sOul s L toe a Bk oe ry n’ es T toh ir red eaA rcn hg el a, L wi rn id ta disord Pe ar ss s. ng$ 14 pb P, tr0 i- c3 i8 a0 - J8 o0 n5 e4 s1 -3 1s.
a novel act é Lkte m-
} o s n d e i b y a
—!| H" —ef Tt o i nu m ebn ded sr thet eh B ma si ot d t a:u a per ri ee sn lg at or nh re de ps te hep ia hra tr ns uyc t mh ae oc2 nr r0 nny gB e gni ua tegr r otdusu ua, rt ié .a trs oG ma ap l nho bd deya si c ck h ba ste cs nr i. s iuaS stnnh thd te c ip so oo fl mr auo na hsr r ea” yy ntiB f inoa a m-cl m lrt i ai l etem y o dr e t r. h va rt L loi ul th ema a sohs orG faa ct tae wls o, w oa ocy nw fs leh to tp r s i e oe apa i ec ea ssa e et =) a e
, a n e as a iu dg h t e d ho aar a t a fn s lh ue h - r e rl t ab tl sn i n at w i t le s hc Bi al ciy kec , i s W w Zy a r a
| lh i, t ’ e n i e t ei s t .eo f a i l s e e a n d
l a s e =
i W o f a n s S r s m t - w ’ ps
w
, s n t i o t a i
Volume 2 Number 5 July /August 1999
107Bookstore News
Feminist
0t -ak 3e 8n -8d 0i 5f 8f 5e -r 5e ,n t Ar uo ga ud ss t to Se in 8 racism /
0
Daughters of Light Traditional Chi j - $12.59 pb
Q inu Da t ! ak h u yee c gr h C to eeW l roo sn em i e e osn f LanP ydr e a Ac bh ri on a Ag C0d R -e, a6b nea 7 tcn 9 ic1 c cd - ,a 7 4 s30 sP a70 L lr 6a- o2ro ng1 s - p o 2h n t, oe h7 s 7 $y 5 in3 i 5n ag $hscwG 1i eaiu 4g at n. i n lh c sd ie p,e Nnr E ,g ol wl at t 0eo fn h -n oca 3oH t i a8d e e vS s 0a n ac , -i t il h 8n li 0a ac an 9p nl beg 0dl u l2n d eo -ee wP 8hrse s ig e nk y r y bi. Sn s t fh m to e Oe rr aoe m ia va nsM et et cae i me rtd ei eC i o an nc stT ei n A oPe yn oP f: uoT r rO eb aay4 r vc s l iehD y tlr af, ] t wo hO N “em na ub aa en r ltTn rit ea: gea n’ t g yg }
tr li s s r o i n re ,
b
e p i rs e
ot a AIo s n l d ee p s rr , t e cha t arc h oh ne u ogW mi h cn e eo os u nt t oth ne iI metnB ih sdr e n,ii et ssi tt,s h 0b Amy -ue 3gr 8u J 0su -tl bi 7)ye 9, 7S S 1Sc a -ih r 1bau ehm r ia sac nSh ce h pr Du l e rma r n )2 . a 5 p0 , (n $ I10 2 i- . n3 5 a8 0T 0 ,h - Pe 8 0 n07 tB -0 ao 34 e8-d v1 0y a) - 7| 9 sy¢ ea"
me ee ae m e i w l i h e e r s 3 e a er , r a
m ,
sw ma rxo rr uk bse d ro su t nss gwci ue id ee sy yt h ne ee eab 1yn d t5eS 0h O ,a ln n e wi et h rM Be aso no ,O tc ac 9io ta ao s oi lls ei d( aOo$ ,1 n el2 t. n5 no 0 f e, aM la0 ,y p0 l- - 3 3 b8 o,L bb0 vc ea r e- as e t '7 u 3 ls 1 1:A 9 f 9 8t sB :- ee l lB1 ar lio , itn —o o Dm oo aS os ttie s p aet oa e at ”a etN tei eg ao lmh es
Wf Sm a i wee t u sy e p re of a t wQa ou r a lka df t e .h ie r sr ne st foh l ce un ui on er= c m nu o c m t n en ui c s m no te itv. r he ta er yiW s ni w et— o" adh a nm n ded a w nu o a t t e h eo map pnc ie i e n, t i y lP s ii t cmtt ea h al n e ko d fin ie g l r a na e r n li c d dt le e e ia d ’ r thbt eh o e t h S $ eNevad aa 3 a re . ah h A N- l o ei WS s 0k a2 - 3 8a a r i 0r vv - aa 7 bi0 i ell: on 9 s ea e 5 bb so 0 sl P -n e w 2 ge e eE i s e iA n s c S b ec i ps W2 o pp ias d ta n etp e o) e m n wr r y oI a n u r l cc l kk b 9 ncr e 4 t P l e r s n i sa nw n ae fc e e h N i nb ! d s
(EC oqa e ur hae til ti eea t l n y Nd e w @ i cg n re t yn r ie i ncr gaa ,tt ei , so hn h os e u a tr ito nf f ge ,lP to l li n as o uh v g e hl i A nm te h at ew B e T Sree w S, o m c eh nro . en icl “ ae As rf io cu hr ,
:F a 3m 7i 5l -y 0P ro l 5ni -t Xoi ,nc s o nglldi ng fatmo ilpyr esreercvi eep esa:n d ea epa ss B oo —nb atnha t omf osw to m : pe rn ec ios ut sr ug 0: !
o n a H a 0r 1i g t a CM AON RA EH A RRI ANG NTO DN = e
M 4 : $24
July/Au—Saa t pj fg is g i“ ao h gnu ne rsu e e R M r as e l d us o p n lto s m u sm e d i ten Ri tlr e h p w u oa l e eb sr n u !u h b Et b oSsy ei 1f li d W li r idoH i e i 9tq iua w is 9ut r k s whi na a e hr 'a ll oe cbsi Ke ii b e l t ua gl ay a tem g si p lC i td el a ry nl. io n o e o nn er v rgrr qSg l i He e uee yd ae i; m a r a sre Ccla i sr e Os f 0ii o u Ki te -e eunr Me n em , ym ea si s nn r a g dc a d a it li l i or tio e a t nee hb reo t ,— fu — h ee t p n r Ti l hf c wv eo a aer r t SE te e l ct shQ i a ei ii c le f :l d ;U e a ir c r ee y a ai A ne di l n, d ae s nL d s dl c ef i ao tmI rrr i t oo ec e: h an laT t l ss g n s, ph t i a e eY r ve we cl m tea th ho re te e er s2 e r ae 0 sa elg ,e d bba w SP of SH lH i EB t eo o o l ea aa to oe sl l oa 8 an clolw e, bl t ky nht y k l io e, i e aauwA n p; nt rl eW ftg nla o h t Bs too io an tr o i it f yd e m n w ct F y eiia e oi m ee onv e ine ewB ui an ua ir rgl ps n. i kl d ll y ” e tb eea t bous ob yE sb o t sl $ f x e pt Fy 1 h p h c i2 i t e a e H.o tn ih M r 5 r em ae eC ai 0 ts f rp n ,r o r e cS ui aap o ;t li Ya Ala ocya sm n i a0 dod hip h t l- uvr ite n a 3i rF a iB etar t 8o mr t uhu c vLb l h a h 0 Sne er ne iua n e e-e t d W fcc r c7 o ee tJ gi f ak u2 fn a ixo s us rW o vt 7 gy t lc n t ri ho 2 oo oo r t a t l0r Nu e rhE r n Ry o-k es m a ,a C e n+Xll p de t hm bd go hy s m srl l fp u l-eo ti, o y oa aprb n rc trt n nc r i ei dec ceC rr r t nsl L to h ie mr e t gs e s,apm e : i l"a s na pucp v ab rn t te iva e. e Y= wh i fod a “i 8c s e i: o stsT bv s 2xs u eh e " l h i ro i ce d e a I nis to su cfi ' ain a ls )s nnTIM ft y n: "t a°h t gde s T M R
- o A m r c P
p = , na o s ai n u a
i n a 4
n
P e
9 e
f
i
e22 Number?
Volum
108f ht -
f
i Bi . :
i
M oo
aopme ca-s
)
} ‘ =
%) | 4 siminatory penalties. Includes information on:
if Bie planning, tax advantages, reducing your tax
Wm Gn N ] | IBicad secets, th dr oo mu eg sh t ic ch pa ar ri tt na eb rl e agc ro en et mr ei nb tu st ,i on as v, ids ih ni gf ti tn hg
o e
KN ss penalty” on long-term health care and retire-
, ee plans, funding a college education, reentering
s» i |} “sdt hih ise a .b j io l $b i t 4y m a pr bi ,k n e st 0u -r 4aw 4nh 9ce -e 0,n 24ay 9no -du a fr ae c ts HIV a- bp ouo ts it ji ov ie n, t —ob wu Tny Mei r Rn -g 0w -o 5m 5e 3n -1, 98d 4e -c 7i .d es to investi
0
| p 1 0 7 .
—Sylvia Crannell
BDD-Dell
il BDD-Anchor and Main Street Books
b Js yu , y] | soG uf be — tr- iLt tar lD wu ee r ds e e se n ar yct B se e ll it:Q o fu le A l.Ae d rn v $ae: 1bn i .t a 9uT 5r h e be r py b, JE a 0Ax n -dt e 3v tr 8i a 5s -o We 4r ar 9d l 5li 7an t 5coa h 7r .K .y i n Wg esL l,i l f ,e A l tl ho y ef lfP u aa l d,s ys -aiH imoi nbns -i t wto b air y ioi tc uV ia si nl r gg c ir ono tmi om a ma Qon uH nc ee ee n rl e f ya w.n Eh s o iT zw h ai el r l i s th e hsew ra on t Ioi t n ate nh A de isW P loao s vm “ i eb ta se i n a ou n ft oi uo o- rf f
) | a 5 , - e n l b e o
AM | The Girl in the Flammable Skirt by Aimee 0v -e 3ry 5-3di 1f 8f 2e 0r -e 0n .t husbands along the way.” $21.95 cl,
8
=».) || B ne en ved re r qui is ta e c wo hl al te ct wi e on e xo pf e cs tt .o ”r ie $s 1 1.“ 9in 5 w pbh ,i c 0h - 38t 5h -e 49m 2o 1r 6a -l 2 . is Dell claims Renee Swindle will elbow out Terr
| B =y | _ ufT e ex y,i e r B ir ce s8h ma g-r ik uyo nu sen ep ai d: rc le ”sT s eh , $e -a 1ps iE 9n t 5hd .e po t bhf i ,a“t l tEea -eiL 3m ro 8p v l e i e ys 9S m, 5t 2o 3r t -thy oe .yb f ,y i naC il a nt cm dh lo ue n dr jt ii eh an ls ge KnbAM aoemc avhM e tii r enl ri d ”l sc ka a in h Pn e r aa os“n w Febd ato r am lPs sC la .h io , nnn n 1s ei 2a e .w s 9Ps pr 5y li ,,B et r ae i sr 0as -nc 3do e a n 2r -Ad 3e 3a l.s 2m 3a ei 9t rs gh 0ke -a ap 5,b u .h l 0t o -yt t G3t i 8e on w 5s g oit s d3e mA 8mf a6o dr neni 'bc e 4ua s.y tn
| O ,a n s1 r o fm a n c ye 0v y 4e m o t i hn , n n
m ] r Oa g d i t , l t , r e d , -s p a a - e l , N o w l le u e a s p a e r e . i s $ l 9 5 rc l - 1 3 -
| s . 1 . 5 4
l l $ 8 5
—Sylvia Crannell
| A Miracle Every Day: Triumph and Transfor-
| mation in the Lives of Single Mothers by Marita
Golden goes against the grain of common analyses of
| “Ingle-parent households to focus on the unique / h E
utengths of single-parent families. Golden looks at
| Single
mothers, at the adaptive skills their children She wrote Slaves of New York, American Dad, A
have, and at the support systems that single mothers Cannibal in Manhattan, and The Male Cross-Dresser
| «Teale to make their families work. A very necessary Support Group. Now Tama Janowitz ate 9 i
“ at a topic that is so often treated shallowly and tain Age. A “wickedly funny and glistening y ws
|» erively. $9.95 pb, 0-385-48315-5, —TMR novel,” the story focuses on our obsession w1 ire a
| BDD-Bantam spicuous consumption and what are wome
| Rita Mae Brown’s Loose Lips is the latest a e‘t eknn ow aeif s you‘r ec ee ie buy it, but
ie _iymede novel. It follows the humorous and poi- The Baas One Malate An Executive : Se 2
a. * Ss a of Juts and Wheezie, continuing right Customer Relationship Sede aE a
5 0G0509 -09Ww9. Six* of One and Bi2n go left off. ($24.95 cl, Peppers and Martha Rogers 1s valuable pad
teleas2- e8 d. ) foB ry tht eh e firw sa ty , imS ei x aso f rO an de pa and erB bi an cg ko ar ie ese gd eo vo an gad ie nt bo to hek st bo ir ge go uw ysn .e rs I t s fc or ca um sb el si ng o n ho) w to
ae t t e p s n d st
July /August 1999
me 22 Number 2 109Feminist Bookstore News
asd lhe siv ope sl wOo rnwp oli tt eh l o Icn nug S- s wl Lt ea o es m pnt e di rn os tg hn. Sa $ un 1 d 9 . b9 o5 m fo Hcr Rl o,e f0 t- op 3 pr 8 so 5 ,f - i 4t aa 9 -b 4 mSl 0 oe 8 a. n- g4 . hr e ol ta ht ei ro sn “ o| .- cc d le ,o tam 0i -m l 8o o0tn 7 bo 0 i-r l2e ib v 9 zo e 2 ian 2l nd - X .a w p Ri ot eih n t nh toe f r i nn tc th :ia mr aa cc Cyt e nr sai ens d rt vi ac e y ie vd n ee lp ot vh e a dn yy )
y i o i s y a on a n a l h y k , w h
M g s e m e o t
e n f
eO nn cc ee , ea sg pa ei cn i, a lls yhe “c ph er oo pn li ec le cs a ugt hh te bm eo td we er en n. ..A tr ha eb we ax yp se ri o- f g Ke en ec pe e rsf ro bym Jet ah ne HJ ao rh dn i stB yi rc ih s a S mo ac pie t oy f tt ho e t Ph oe l itip c T a}O C M b.S a , l | |
HE ea as rt Sa tn aed np dh W ae n Ss i ot e u. ,” St$ “o2 k s1 e h. s o9 5 sO lcl i, v Ae0 fr- r,3 8 c5 at- h ne4 91 f A7 o m1 u e- n9 rd. ii cn ag ed wi oto mr no f Hhptl ar ae se rs c di ib s b se e e tli e yyn n, g gm if k vao e eu k e sg e p h s it n sg ui pn ht eaA t bm h se he uri mR oic n ag a nh t t. h a e en lFd r R mo i ea m g nh tp to ar t ir w nf a oo ri rt ia: hW W th ho o , |
t l w i n e u t e g
th ho ew bot do ys o 3o 6t 5h e dat yh se s oo fu l t, h e sa yt ei asf ry ” t ih ne Dm ai in ld y, Ca on rd n brre ev ai dv :e movements, claiming that without a deep undee}
365 Secrets for a Healthy Mind, Body, and Soul. standing of the Right’s past and humanity wal
$21.95 cl, 0-385-48769-X. impossible to constructively engage it. $2o 4 l d l, |
The Celtic Way of Prayer: The Recovery of the 0-8070-4316-8.
Religious Imagination by Esther de Waal “shows B In The Family of Adoption, Joyce Maguire
how this tradition of worship draws on both the avao writes of the developmental stages and chal.
pre-Christian past and...the Gospels.” $10.95 pb, lenges for adopted people and shows Parents
0-385-49374-6. —Sylvia Crannell teachers, and therapists how to support people in
these various stages. $12.50 pb, 0-8070-2801-0.
Beacon Now available in paperback: The Book of
In A Dialogue on Love, Eve Kosofsky Sedgwick Blessings: New Jewish Prayers for Daily Life, the
(Epistemology of the Closet) writes about her relation- Sabbath, and the New Moon Festival by Marcia
ship with her therapist. She explores this strange yet Falk is a poetic re-creation of Jewish prayer thatis,
though steeped in dialogue with rabbinical tradi-
tion, for people seeking a more contemporary,
egalitarian approach to traditional liturgy. Thecloth
edition was a FB-Net catalog favorite. $25,
Now in paperback from
0-8070-1017-0, August.
Three Rivers Press
Discovering Kwan Yin, Buddhist Goddess of
Compassion: A Woman’s Book of Ruminations,
Wits Rhee alae’ liek ain be Ser | “Brave...Memorable... Meditations, Prayers, and Chants by Sandy Boucher
APTIER
SILENCE Powerful...Nancy Venable explores the influence of Kwan Yin — whois, accord:
ing to the copy, the most celebrated goddess in allof
i, Raine refuses to lose
Asia — on women in the U.S. Boucher, the author of
ee 1 herself—and the reader—
several books on Buddhist thought, first encountered
“~ in self pity. Instead, she
My Kwan Yin in the form of a statue in a museum!
TOURNRY 4 exposes society's fear of and Kansas City. She was struck by the statue's balance of
epO NaANtCY hB Veo iA dS rC aK t i e KSaeigge discom i“ nf to i:r mt a tew it ch r i: mt eh .e ” most s tot r re en sgt eh a, r chb ea heu rt .y , B oa un cd h ert en sd he or wne ss s u, s a thn ed gf oe dlt d ec so s’m pe 7l
AFTER SILENCE —Newsweek representations through stories both old and new. $2
Rape & My Journey Back
by Nancy Venable Raine pb, 0-8070-1340-4. 3
August 1999
0-609-804197, $14.00 paperback
Chronicle Books
Discussion group guides available. If your customers were enchanted with ye
Cats Paint ($16.95 pb, 0-8981-5612-2, Ten 9P°
To order, contact your Random House sales rep
or call J -800-733-3000. Press), you'll want to get the latest book by the 4
n
authors, Dancing with Cats by Burton Silver, @
Heather Busch. $16.95 pb, 0-8118-2415=2
July/August 1999
110 Volume 22 Numbet
>F
eminist
Bookstore
News
o ou ulw dit h chs et cr ko n og w to hm e cn o’ ls fua lrt O( aa xn ad c/ ao nr Farrar Ri, Straus, & Giroux
Those of ¥ u t e or
crafts) sections tional Folk Art by Oaxacan Women
mic‘ og: 11aal : with photographs by Vicki
: serspring T
by Lois We pb, 0-8118-2358-X. —Suzanne Corson
Boadecia’s Books/North Berkeley CA
impact of political activism on
Dutton
d ot mh ee Na fr rr oo mw G ta het e: MiT dhe leJ our Kn ie ny do of mF ou tr lies. $25 cl, 0-374-25099-5,
August,
Beyon n d g o —Harriet Clare
Chinese W
: adie America by Leslie Chang. Forced to flee their Free Press
Middle Am 1948 when the communists took over
Dangerous Liaisons: Blacks,
SaSe ethe cyo u rsr mr oe im ra r uk fla odb l lhe sw c,o m heee hn blm ie agne viat i on T nra ei naw .a Sn sawS hrt iir su tig sng l e erf to er sE q Aiu fasa rntl idoi t aiy ie Ald mi et spe rood aeb iy E ri aac duB G tyra say htns td, mh,t ea rp en xr ld e s ate lisn st tt nh .s -e
t e e e e t le u e pc ikF i mt f e e wG i rl cs o ’ S l c obo wo e l o t m t s ee e r“ b er l r e w ow f i o g U t e a” . s r t i pt , bg e tw r wf i eo m nr , h cr na p n hs , o il p i cht r nc a s sl a b nn oa l os e sa c t ui a v i o s
o
Ne } wa hec n e Ea st t gh oe esh a Wr ed ss th .i p $s 2 4.a 9n 5d cl,s t 0r -u 5g 2gl 5e -s 9 42e 57n -c 2o .u ntered Addresses such issues as attitudes toward gay mar-
riage versus interracial marriage, the growth of gay
Buxton Spice by Oonya Kempadoo. This Carib- and lesbian rights organizations, homophobia in the
bean w ‘iter debuts with a novel set in 1970s Guyana, Black church, and the conflict among minorities in the
centering on the inner life of Lula, a young girl com- arts. Includes writing from Jewelle Gomez, Audre
ing of age in a racially mixed family in a time of Lorde, Barbara Smith, and others. $22.95 cl,
political repression. The vividly drawn characters 1-56584-455-6.
—TMR
include a trio of prostitutes known as Bullet, Sugar
Baby, and Rumshop Cockroach, Lula’s Aunt Ruth, Grove/Atlantic, distributed by PGW
the obeah voodoo lady, and many others, $21.95 cl, Yxta Maya Murray, author of Locas ($12 pb,
0-525-94506-7.
0-8021-3564-1), is praised by the Chicago Tribune as
Broke Heart Blues by Joyce Carol being a writer “with an insider's eye, elo-
#| Oates. The newest from the prolific
quently capturing the struggles of being
| Oates, “a penetrating look at the bur- poor and Mexican- American in Los
| den of celebrity and the making of | Angeles.” In her new novel, What It Takes to
| American myths.” $24.95 cl, Get to Las Vegas ($23 cl, 0-8021-1642-6), Rita
® | 9-525-94451-6. Zapata hangs around boxing hopefuls in East
The True History of Paradise “um L.A., trying to find a way to a better life. She
| by Margaret Cezair-Thompson. meets Billy, a fighter from Mexico, who is on
| The first nove] from this Jamai- his way to the top. Their passion leads the pair
| can-born Writer is set in 1981 to Vegas and is both the best and worst thing to
Jamaica, where there is a state of happen to Rita. This is an extremely oe
writer; this is a book to stock, to handsell, to rea
yourself.
| wher Daughter o f the Air: The Brief Soaring Life
| | tv a ei kv id o ff mC ao lr en el pi ila Fo wr ht by flR eo wb aSi emb ec ek his t he v ane ene a
h Jean makes her way across of a e o t o
I| fo A- ue“t ”ers € ofr ee S sm c ce o etm ntb ti .se h r ,p s l a 2Cn 4rne .o e t 9o 5lw e oa ,ni ly ct i ,y C n hg iL a n -n e 5t a so , e 5,t a b 9k u 4e At f 9rh m i 0e car -a n 7n ,,to y oed ao ec aee esne S o ffe rt of mea w thi pn ea er i o ae p s rl, ,e ap nto dor l te wt sr it hae t eir n ts e l, s oo sf v e4 dF to hr et h ’ es rp rsfs ti lh yo tir rnt a ag nm ee
d $ l 0 2 - 4 i
c i i d
aie member of the firs a
7 de —Donna Niles (which included being @ July/August 1999
111Feminist Bookstore News
eV EAR FY ¥ women’s flight squadron, the WAR S), eve
New in the MLA was marked by sexism. From a letter to hes Bhi
which also became her epitaph:
Texts & Translations Series jeans and the great dignity of life “7 on the ran 0 Ue
loved fox-hunting even with its snobbishnesg ee
the deeply pervading tiredness after six i Ove
Marie R iccobont timber hopping. I dearly loved the airports it
The Story of big. I loved the sky and the planes and yet, belei and
loved flying.... I was happiest in the skys ah
Ernestine
when the quietness of the air was like a caresg ae
the noon sun beat down, and at dusk When ie a
was drenched with the fading light. Think of me the;
and remember me, I hope as J shall you, with lovee
$22, 0-87113-688-0, August. ~TuR
1998 °54%x 8%
xxxiv & 80 pp. Harcourt Brace
Paper ISBN 0-87352-786-0
$7.95 Impossible Saints by Michéle Roberts js q novel
about a fictional saint, Saint Josephine. Roberts Uses
the story of her life to explore the conflicts between
Set in prerevolutionary France, The Story of Ernestine tells of female sexuality and religion, the roots of female Toles
the love between an innocent young woman and an aristocrat. in the church, and the troubled love between fathers
Ernestine, German-born and orphaned, is an apprentice and daughters. As we learn more and more about
painter putting the finishing touches on a portrait when the Josephine, her sainthood becomes more dubious
marquis de Clémengis, elegant and handsome, enters the Was she a miracle worker or a coward? Was shea
studio. Recognizing him as the subject of the portrait, she seductress or a role model? Woven into the story are
the stories of actual saints, “mad one-armed girls,
gestures for him to be seated and goes on working, looking
beauties locked in towers, mothers who encourage
back and forth between him and his likeness. The world-
their daughters’ fatal anorexia, ingenues who seduce
weary aristocrat is smitten. and dismember their fathers.” A book that probes
In graceful, understated prose, Marie Riccoboni shows that troublesome junction between women and high
how her heroine learns to negotiate questions of honor and religion. $13 pb, 0-15-600659-6.
appearances and to find a precarious balance between In Elizabeth Graver’s debut novel, Unravelling
economic security and the potentially compromising nature a 19th-century woman attempts to understand the
of male generosity. The Story raises questions about sexual tangled path that has led her from her mother's ne
oe fn l mi og nh et ye ,n m re en pt taa tn id n,so ci aa nl P mr ae rj ru id ai gc ee ba in ld tyr e te hx aa mi pn re es cct uhe ieli dn ks 3t 8o th Se hes ma ell eni ts uo ala lt le yd c ca rb ei an esw he ar e ifs he fof ind es h eerse! nd
u o d a i t o p . v t l e r
eighteenth-century writers, triumphs over conformity. $13 pb, 0-15-60
August.
a=
Also available: Wendy Wasserstein (the Pulitzer Pre ee
jTH Ci h as e nt oi O Hr r ie n Hi d ie g e nd i d d en aE l §r n Ste eFs wrt aei rtnn e c: h a n d Text x P1 x ax9 pi9 ei r8 i & I © SB85 ] N4 ppx . 0. 8 y p tel na yw a ri ng eh wt w plh ao y , wr Ao nt e AmTh ee r iH ce aid ni C Dhro ani ncl ees) ta orb ou wt h o 4
Philip Stewart, eds. ee 0-87352.785.2 privileged daughter of a Republican ae pecomes
lives in Georgetown with her husband. al, but the
the president’s choice for surgeon gene!
media finds out that she once failed t
Ph “1 New York, NY 10003-698 | jury duty. The media treats pee - shatteriné
J=ul o y/F A ugusg tas 1a 999 e SaT eD e * eF yax . 212 35 hH8 a- l9 Hl1 4 9 L Akn g hi en rv es pt ri ig : va at ci yn g ah ne dr f caa rm ei el ry . a Wn ad s a serse te 5 or 4 me i
112 te)
odFem Sinis Nt B Eooks Wtore Ne ws
S
\
(
; |
\
\ f
t -. a searing, deliciously funny politi- and aurally oriented consumers. OK
dialogue ee op, eae August. an apparently “enthralling” (Harper’s, SO orW dha )t 's edh ]e re:
w m
cal dr Na om wa . atS ha b el ee n Ai ln c ap la a pe er xb pa lc ok r: e s Th “te h e Fl co ow me pr l exi in t it eh se o wf o rj do sur na ol f Jen et wr ei le s, prp oo be em s, h ere ss ba ely is e, f s,a nd h ers tor ti he os. u ghA tn sd cé o
Skull by » identity, and assimilation” through the ideas, and important turning points in her life. Sct
sof t ora y .e o ’s Sch oa n, o rd ar ni ve Dn e sef rr to ,m ah ne dr hh eo rm e dl aa un gd h tei rn a Ror sa ai .d p kr ee et pt y in da mr in n d en tt hh ar ta l hl ei rn g A, Nd io ge hs tn ’ Wt i ti ht o? utB ut A rw me o r s sh oo lu dl d o veal rl
p By e ths e author of Sprits of the Ordinary and Mrs. Vargas 300,000 copies, so this is one to stock, even if you can’t
and the Dead Naturalist (Calyx Books). $12, help but make the fake retching noise every time you
0-15-600634-0. --TMR look at it. $23.95 cl, 0-06-019200-3; $12 cassette, 70 min-
utes, 0-694-52079-9; $15 CD, 70 minutes, 0-694-52151-5.
HarperCollins
A Long Way from Home by Connie Briscoe (Big Now available on audio: Little Altars Everywhere
Girls Don’t Cry, Sisters & Lovers) is a historical novel of performed by the author, Rebecca Wells. $18, 2
three generations of women slaves working the plan- cassettes, 3 hours, 0-694-52153-1, November.
| tation of President James Madison and his wife, Harper is releasing another one of those ya-ya
Dolley. The protagonists are gifted, talented women books — a book about straight women bonding and
trying to keep their family intact. $25 cl, finding strength from one another’s friendships. The
| 0-06-017278-9, August. Also available on audio: $18, 2 promo compares Patricia Gaffney’s novel about four
cassettes, 3 hours, 0-694-52149-3, August. friends who’ve dubbed themselves The Saving
Paper Daughter: A Memoir by M. Elaine Mar is Graces to Beaches, The Group, and Loose Change. $24 cl,
the author's memoir of her navigation between her 0-06-019192-9. —TMR
home life as an immigrant and traditional Chinese
Alt
daughter and her public life as an American. She
grew up working with her parents in a Chinese E
festaurant in Denver, and eventually got into
Harvard. Her story is a personal journey and an HarperSanFrancisco
unflinching look at the realities of the American Writing as a Way of Healing by Louise DeSalvo
_ dream. $23 cl, 0-06-018293-8, August. invites readers to use writing as a way to heal and
Escaping into the Open: The Art of Writing transform. She shows how writing about traumatic
ae Elizabeth Berg’s (Talk Before Sleep) very per- events in a particular way — linking a detailed
i)D| Di ie c neo me il lid e $ofi n vo es t sp hf i er r ro i m n rw g ir tiw s t eo t e ro rr sr s k i .i e sn T ig h pf i sr s o m m owo nt a hh ree r m gr o taw tnt ino d cs eau nrc scec toee aurs rs taaf egnu d-dl —d Mte e as s yc te r ifi mf Sop e anct rt ii ti ao ov nln e ,s l yo f f nr dhe e ov a me Al n lst s cD ow r rw i Woi t att e lhh r ks y e. fe .Ae I ll n li $c i 2n l s 2g u o s d n ce , sa b o I -u a s 00at -6b 6-e -e l 2t 55h e 5A 1l am 9li -e en 5n .d¥e e s ,
a i i e r l , 0 2 1
* l w t e n g r ,
| unleashing creativity, and Enoercieconudand
Success) from < y, acceping rejection
0-06-019179.4 e publishing world. $23 cl,
| f| ft SG oh 0 t i ro mr ieW s be uol ttt al v “t a io iI ev l' aem br ol ns e o y e ct n a. og tl a nH eot d ta o tr n elpt yh e aa rt i5 dn ht a th Cs he e cw mlh e o avo r pel r pee l y tn lJ r iaee m ndw ea gie d tl ie- to oa n s a vh- le iw r sr ubi aL ot li oe lf r ye k hH O Se f te r f on r iaJ esy H u el ai r aH s o ihl taS L st rl e pa g,v i rn do a’ itrs i g ati r‘ hn‘ yct eaa l a cMw hb aar ao ii r o t d ak e s cr t t. e o rf oT s nh es e h (o sr W C ut lo bum ubs rat bo n ari a nie n s dW mh ar oe O r v t re ihCa eeu drtl s
s s n D , e a r s p o n
July/August io
Shume 22 Number 2 113Bookstore News
Feminist self-esteem, induces feelings ie
ences sexual choicJ es, and leads to vu al n ner eab lil ei rn, i- nfly, |
Fannie Who? n ae
of mortality. A deeply personal analysis of di Se)
that is prevalent, deadly, and invisible $9 1Se Age
HBy rst th e dt iei dm ,e hF ea rn n ni ae 0-8050-5625-4, August. * 923.95 qd
m e
u
had appeared in The
Little, Brown
New York Times more
I Gave You All I Had, a novel by Zo¢ Valds
than 200 times: in translated from the Spanish by Nadia Benabid 16,
reviews of her 26 winner of the Planeta Prize, Spain’s most preshieals
books; in reports of
literary award. Born to an actress and a Chas
controversial
her enthusia: st of New World ri: ches, Cuquita Martin Ese
statements ranging
left home at ten to live with her grandmother. AG
from women’s rights
she meets Juan, the love of her life, in Havanna,. Juan
to Communism; in
disappears for eight years, returning at the eve of the
stories about her
Revolution. The two are together briefly beforehi s
prescient speeches,
dealings force him into exile in the U.S. Cuquita bears
her disputes, her awards, her social life, and her his child and waits for his return. As Cuban politics
unusual marriage (she and her husband lived settle, Cuquita and her friends fight to survive andbe
apart). A close friend of Eleanor and Franklin happy. As the copy says, “they improvise, they cheat,
Roosevelt and Zora Neale Hurston, Fannie Hurst they scavenge, they make love, they remember, and
was one of the most dynamic writers of the above all, they talk.” ($24.95 cl, 1-55970-477-2,
century, and a precursor to Betty Friedan and the Arcade.) Also by Valdés: Yocandra in the Paradise of
modern feminist movement. Nada: A Novel of Cuba, translated by Sabina
Cienfuegos, is the funny, erotic, and moving story ofa
Fannie
woman born in the year of Castro’s revolution who
The Amazing Rise to Fame of Author Fannie Hurst must eke out her own survival in wasteland that Cuba
became. $12.95 pb, 1-55970-476-4, Arcade.
by Brooke Kroeger
River, Cross My Heart, Breena Clarke's first
Times Books / Random House novel, centers around the absence in a family and
0-8129-2497-5, $27.50 community when five-year-old Clara Bynum drowns
in the Potomac River. The Bynums moved to
Georgetown (circa 1925) from rural North Carolina (0
find a better life for themselves. Clarke shows ¥ ;
effect of Clara’s death on her parents, on the relative
and friends the family has found in Georgetown, es
most of all on Johnnie Mae, Clara’s ten-year-o} d sal
who must contend wit; h the powerful emo tions tsot
sister's death evokes while trying to decide wee
of woman she will become. A lyrical story that cnt ft
ae pene of Afric
cles a significant time in the history © Group
Americans. $23 cl, 0-316-14423-1. Readin6 “rg
Guide available, 0-316-14437-1.
McGraw-Hill
man f
‘e) how-to ra |
McGraw-Hill is releasing tW
prary Jour
on winter sports that are, according to L ibrary in the
men
“a desi7 gned to teach outdoor skil; ls to 1 aie!
Volume 22 u
114
2Feminist Bookstore News
extrem 'e l Gy iw de el l do Mn ae gia en d Loa rp ip ne ga ,l - i an nt du it tio rn a, sfth oe mim na gg ne ot bi sc aclf eor sc .e Nf aie tl ud ao lf
arm.-- s u by g a n r t r l y, ener.
go aw olot myo ,e of ni rn e td t 0uh 7re s 0ai r 3tnn i 8gc 8he 6t -at i 9h an ,e s dt r Aa nu ug c he gt uo sr eo , f )tls o1 ok 9 i p, l l ,s dh r hio l ow l wss , e Aus y g - ul so Ao te v w,g i ane rg Ei dao g -u c l weug s nt eBo anrm mo ie o enb r k du g.s t um w pjia l oy l u.b ie $ h1 a 3 il . sl 9 h5 y o u Rpr pib t, yC se 0 il - ce 6s ia8t ar8i non - se n1 -67 FP o1r 4o up - th 4 ht- ,
briL fm ic m .f o a 0yb -o l e r d i p s , 7s f e n o t o h w t . s e s [ 2 i wr n ta l tt ha B a s
- t e f e
to ng
2 . A Woman’s Guideby Iseult ee New York University Medical Center
country skiing, SNOW- f= Women’s Health Service and the
:
ice skating, and Department of Obsetrics and Gynecol-
shoeing, a ($14.95 pb, ogy to write Being Female: What Every
0b 9a .c 0k 7- -c 1o 5u 81n 8t 8r -y August.) —TMR eW co om la ogn caS lh ou Hl ed ltK hn ,o w Ab bo ou ot G ty hn a-
X ,
i a a k t
; “demystifies the female reproductive
illiam Morrow
S4 cceW sso m Se ton W oh fo omM ee na n oveB ru s Fi on rte ys s b: y cs ey rs nst ,e m e” m pha an sd izia nd gdr e ps rs ee vs e ntw ato im ve en ’ cs ar e. co $n 1- 5
u r ies W
A. Mikaelian profiles 75 women from all pb, 0-688-16976-7, Quill.
over the country, from all sorts of busi- | Amanda Davis, a hot, original young
nesses. They are the women who began writer, has just released her debut collec-
their careers in the 70s, who were among tion of stories, Circling the Drain. She’s
the first women to “break through the glass ceiling.” written 15 stories about the difficult lives of
| Includes profiles on Lisa McAdams, vice president of young women, who “despite their vastly different cir-
WorldCom; Rose Marie Bravo, chief executive of cumstances, seem to negotiate an eerily similar and
Burberrys Worldwide; Patricia Gallup of PC Connec- unavoidable dangerous emotional terrain.” At turns
tion; and Rebecca Matthias of Mothers Work. surreal and biting, each story shows its heroine deal-
Mikaelian emphasizes the new opportunities ing with loss, disillusionment, and anger. This is a
available to women in the corporate world in this book to hand to all your more literate customers who
"positive, encouraging, pro-business book. $22 cl, are looking to discover new and exciting writing. The
-0-688-15677-0. office copy is going home with me tonight. $23 cl,
The National Women’s Health Resource Center 0-688-16780-2.
: Book of Women’s Health: Your Comprehensive Ellen aficionados: Love, Ellen is Betty DeGeneres’
Guide to Health and Well-Being edited by Anthony memoir of her relationship with her lesbian daughter.
_ R Scialli, M-D., with the National Women’s Health Includes the story of Betty’s difficult path to accep-
“Resource Center is a complete medical reference book tance of her daughter’s gayness and the subsequent
N ... by women. This 600+ page book is divided deepening of their friendship, the difficult stories of
cnc pn. Health Maintenance, Special Health other gay folk and parents of gay folk that Betty has
| tard. é Fegnancy and Childbirth, and Medical heard in her HRC life, letters from Ellen, and (for those
0688-10434-6 6 Diseases of Women. $35 cl, of us who just look at the pictures) some black-
Be CscoI o August. and-white baby /childhood photos of Ellen (with the
ecy) has Poten (coauthor of The Celestine Proph- very cheesy captions that only a mother could write).
What Color i what the sau calls a “new age Could bea fine book for gay/ lesbian customers to give
Your Life ee sates with The Purpose of to their parents. (“See, Ellen’s mom took it OK....”) $24
Find You; Wa i> n0 ok th: P Wr oo rv le dn E Ix e ar sc ki ss es uet so tiH oe nl sp sY uo cu cl, 0-6 N8 e8 w- l16 y2 74 u- p6 d.
y e . t q h a ted: The Li fe and Humor of Rosie
} “i aa ds ao, i ngWh : wy ia tm h] myhe re ifo e?n HEa or wt h? caW nh a It fia ndm mI ys up mp io ss se iod t ao nb de O fr' oD mo n hn ee rl l y oub ty h G onl or Li oa n g Go Io sld a n m da n to hc eo rv e tr as lk sRo hs oi we ’s d ayl sif .e
l n
S —ou —l ’s Pu2 r poi sn ec ,l ud he os w ex te or ci fs oe ls l owo n sa yl ni cg hn ri on ng i ciw ti it eh s yo au nr d | —(I t s oe r em as t lt eh aa st t th ne or te ’s t han to im se sn ut e io —n o if n he thr i se d Doo , '
July/August 1999
ee Number 2
115Feminist Bookstore News
accorddiing ng to Booklis t 1, 2 “c po b,v er 0s - 68al 8l - 16th 9e 7 9-b 1i ,o gr Aa up gh ui sc ta ,l s inl to ow ita s nd s trun ce tc ue rs es .a r $y 2 4.i 9n 5c or clp , o 0r -a 3t 9i 3o -n 0 46o 9f 0.a 7n . acct S “ol /
bases.” Oh, well.) $
—TMR
Quill. Penguin/Viking |
Strange Sisters: the Art of i
'
Norton
Working with Available Light: A Family’s World t1 i9 o4 ns9 .- 19 L6 o9 o ksb y faJ ba uy le o uZ si , me et s pea cialle y for ae al Oe F e i lli uct si to rn
After Violence by Jamie Kalven d escribes the effects of
a violent rape on a woman’s psyche and the texture of aren’t collectors but would love a meee ee
her family. Written by Patricia Evans’ husband, 0s -t 1r 4a -n 0g 2e 8 40z 5-i 8g ,z ag A uguin s t.l esbian herstory e6 e et0 this
Working with Available Light documents the five
years following her assault, as Evans “remaps the world Couples: Scenes from the Insi
in light of the terrible knowledge inflicted on her and see one or two lesbian couples a ey oy Cline
regains her place in it.” Kalven doesn’t presume to the cover of this book, which nyesicil a Pala
understand his wife’s grief, but deepens his questions. tion of couplehood. A radical look at the . a
A poignant, important book that shows one family’s history, and mythology of traditional pa ma
$26.95 cl, 0-87951-946-0, Overlook,
A Celibate Season by Carol Shi
NINETY-NINE AMERICAN NURSES. from the Pulitzer Bice inne Sti Fe a
job-related ten-month separation, Jocel “i
ONE INCREDIBLE STORY.
Charles choose to maintain contact throu eee
An economic decision paves the way Re, a
WE BAND OF
different and very entertaining sides of the a
ANGELS story.” $12.95 pb, 0-14-027511-8. pe
Icy Sparks by Gwyn Hyman i
poueerold Icy Sparks, an srohanene read |
Bee pexents is growing up in1950s rural Ken-
The Untold Story of Ameri can Nurses y- Battling a little-known affliction we now know
E Trapped on Bataan by the Japanese
ELIZABETH M. NoRMAN #| 4 as Tourette’s Syndrome, Icy finds solace in her friend- |
ship with an obese woman who is also an outcast in
the community. $12.95 pb, 0-14-028014-6.
ee Child by Carrie Allen McCray. A
ms of Carrie and her mother Mary Rice Hayes
en, the Black daughter of a white confederate get
eral. This woman, born eleven years after the end of
the Civil War, was publicly recognized by her father |
= fought all her life to heal the wounds of racismin
$12.9c 5o m pm bu , ni 0t -y 1, 4- 0h 2 859-1. try, and especiajally lly ii nhers elt.
Threads Through Time: Writings on History
s and Autobiography by Sheila Rowbotha™
p
a Gathering nearly a quarter-century’s writing on cies
C
gender, and race, this anthology is a look at how
r to h: T Mh ie itG ae rn der * » Signal s we ol mf e- nim ’a sg e mow va es mea nd td .r es Rs oe wd otin at mhe ear ml oy ye ra er cs nto f at ehe
St Wars eg in e l y . b h ’ s s t e
US is A Century of Women. $13.95 pb, 0-14-0275541-
RANDOM “ih HOUSE Photo:
StolleT r he a ndB us Mt a rG ceu li ld ee Kt ao rpt .he ON he , w joyG !i rl A O cr od me pr e nby d ip ue m ? i
July/August 1999 SSS gs from the journal of 90s girl culture, Biis t. TH = = = a a)= ° 3 =° = nm Oo )eeif 3
116 2 Nome
VolumeBookstore News
Feminist
AL
Ait
af a
C (TAM M6 $a au9 hre 1l dg1 o e 6m e2 u cr .rso9 s 9i n5 i t 5ye, i ,) fr o , n ff a 00 b -R T Tb y- 8hy 1 r H( e4 aa $ - lc 1n 5lM0 W 3aa s 1:2 ap .r o f -8m e r 9y 70 oro m Ay 5 0: 4 n rr , a 86 me 0 -- nM a- 54 C oy 1 tJ) ,0at 4 , i an -h - W om a atY 1 Oh nn ewe v0 4 nS o sa e2 e-p r l7 ra - 0e i l7 li n 2G Ca7 t t o o( a8akf4r a o$ W li l - 4vi k( 1b s lM9 oe 6n )$ 2u o e, e 61g .mt . da 1 e - 9 eB .c t 5A 4i9 no s J,wu ,r5t n ’ oio g t, t s hhtua b h nt s 0i yh A t 0 - tne o u. 1s R L b4S g iu y1 Ho v u t hnr e eh si r Se sa a 0 tg w 2i ln )L M ln 8. ,) be yoa 7 ye l te 5 ss h, C5s a le Ka ag ini ry i n r ns : m dl © l y L 6 i r S “ t pi ie , is hi nm B h et a c0 e lm op ohr 0 na u pops 0o ec g, lf voD w kr h ee ep h e t mr irb o a sw iv t oo i l. , lvlr fel io is eei sa gzk h rs t ht , es h e s c De d .e u odM s u lsa t Pu r ci o $nhi ar n t o 2rd o rn B h rp u 6e f walg o an .h d h t ha u 9te i y ic nr 5rg iS, k t yt ho sc b e h ,t yaou ec”3 e h sut v ,0a e t pit h+ i tl uet hnl i tsr l -s ea g a e i P8t g v A tc m i7tr ee hf t ap h ee 9gsl e nr i eSlk r c, i o oe k e e1ncw ai u p -csa or tn ti r 9o vi n hg h o 4u t e, bo 8o n be r l yi f mt -tr ln os hr 7e A v eb iey ,f1 esi mmw . 9 Pr Sk p si 9 i ii lo lt 4 cn s eau o i,h vag hv f coS t f , e fih eih rsea ps c Sh n ih o a w n oh oe o t a bua of rse ih s ytn kr t x ot ot h .d o at ner m w yme e .r fa he Me on A mr v i rsd os fsei t ri ll Hen t iv e lth s eg ce hd oie . o yr a n f ef
a e
R l e W m w t l 0 5 O e l
7 9 d ,
Available again in paper: Facts of Peacock is the acclaimed poet’s memoir /
Life by Maureen Howard. An extraordi- self-portrait. In creating this work,
| nary biography of a brilliant novelist. Peacock has given readers an incredible
|| $12.95 V, k0 i- n1 g4- 0055 is0 0-2. ompar— iD no gn na AN mil yes lyrical account of how a woman comes
i c
Blackmarr’s (Going to Ground) House of into her own. In delineating her own
growth, she reveals the most intimate and
Steps to Kathleen Norris’ The Cloister
Walk and Annie Dillard’s Pilgrim at Tin- crucial matters of a woman’s self-
_ ker Creek, saying that it is an ode to “the definition. From the childhood she had to
‘temarkable and incorruptible process give up too soon to the complicated web of
lI of living from day to ordinary day.” In relationships that we all use to define our-
this collection of essays, Blackmarr selves, this memoir is a poetic, thoughtful
Weaves scenes from her past into the work on Molly Peacock and on the inner
Present, where she lives in a tree-high landscape of women. $14 pb, 1-57322-730-7
fhouse on a Kansas bluff. From the fab- Riverhead.
tic of her everyday life, she is able to pluck I’m Not Mad, I Just Hate You: A New
e cx l,t r 0a -o 6r 7d 0i -n 88a 2r 3y 7 -2g .e ms of wond er and meaning. $22.95 sneeendibe of Mother-Daughter Conflict by
T | Pa e s a ‘ne l aeS pr pings a by Nik hak si tG re om um be lel l, p utp tr io nt ga go dn oi ws nt c eli eon n: i d c al ps ce y an lc- hS oa sln hod ogl wie ssr t, moP ah tn. hdD e. r, s th ea hnd oe wdi tM oi trc o he dol fl e aGirS li s l ’v e S te e
‘ sc eo nn dt sro l he— anu nt eil veo ls eee oe unacceult tabt le ee nage years (when a daugh ate er’ Segi
p
r n o
and an instruction: tive seks to atin Sgierl s, pand e eveg n t o preservei t hi ee
utility vehicle and ability to sta y engaged wit: h i jae
Another mera ere to ee their daughters’ lives.
father. As she sea
breakup and the on raising health
able to trust men. N
117
Ju/l Auygus t 1999Feminist Bookstore News
Now in paper: My Heart Laid Bare by J
AP fedl mvu iem nnO ie t st tuh se r r e s P ie tbo hyp l Le mo’ u as i s yeD ir Rt ba: f okA ki n s. H ou L aos nu de i c sl ee ra thn iae cs lr e’ ses n t oeC vru etr ra i io nu te hs d 0ACa -yr 4no 5 l 2 -2RO 7aa 8nt 8e d 7s - 2,e( $ d1 Ai3 ut. ge9 ud5 s , t)b0 .y- 45 D2 a-2 v8 i0 d0 6-0 H) a rra ind m anJ o (n jga 3 5\ ,
e
w n o a
Mye oa tr hs e. sY o au dm a Dy ffr ee rec no tg ni Dz ae hh te er sa ,s t th we ed li et so br anof aD nif tf he or le on -t i; Cav— eD do wen ln la Nil 5e
Now available n paperback: e r
r n i ug r o i
gies. Here, she takes us on the insightful, sometimes “D io nr to rt oh dy u ceA sl li a so nn e, w w cah si tc h o, f ia ns d omth ie t abB lal et i wmo or me e nS ,y y Pe a i!
hilarious roller-coaster ride of her ti me spent as
erful...Sassy...Knowing.... An extraordinary bal
house Sc Ole Sa ner fo. $1 P1 M. S9 :5 pb W, ho0- l4 e5 2-2 F8 o0 o8 d1 -8. S olutions for ($13.95, 0-452-27969-0.) Also, Carole Maso’s nova
r
Premenstrual Syndrome by Lissa De Angelis and Defiance, in which “Dark-side aestheticism Washes
Molly Siple. Featuring more than 100 recipes and a over you in waves, mixing wild pleasure and bruty
complete nutritional plan, this 320-page volume fury.” —Spin. ($12.95, 0-452-27829-5.) —~TMr
offers an uncomplicated way for women to approach
PMS symptoms from their refrigerator, instead of the Random House
doctor’s office or pharmacy. $15.95 pb, 0-452-27965-8. Elizabeth Berg (Talk Before Sleep) has written,
Beat Your Risk Factors: A Woman’s Guide to new novel. In Until the Real Thing Comes Along,
Reducing Her Risk for Cancer, Heart Disease, Patty Hansen is impossibly in love with the wrong
Stroke, Diabetes, and Osteoporosis by Charlotte man. The way that she solves this and other prob-
Libov. A chapter for each disease spells out risk lems is far from traditional, but, as the copy says,
factors and how to decrease them. $14.95 pb, “close to the dictums of the heart.” $23 dl,
0-452-27832-5. 0-679-45722-4.
Check the appropriate boxes and mail to Feminist Bookstore News, Subscribe!
PO. Box 882554, San Francisco CA 94188 or fax 415-642-9995.
Please make checks payable to Feminist Bookstore News.
Name
Business Name or Affiliation
Address
i City/State/Zip
i Phone Fax
E-mail
L] 1 yea— $r70. * Check enclosed. C Publicist
C General independent
C1 1 yea— r$75 . Bill us. ] Reader/Bibliophile
LJ Alternative/political
CL] Plus $23 for international postage. C1 Writer
C1 Spiritual, Wiccan, New Age
L] Plus $10 for Canadian postage. C1 Other
C1 Half year— $35,
Bookstores:
7 L] Sample copy — $6. Bookstores, Publishers, and C1 We have one store only
Periodicals: [C1 Multiple locations: # of stores: ___
, | Se are: A Is your focus primarily:
1 Puo bo lk is se hl el re r (see also column 3) C Femini , Owned Cb ly: w omen Clmen L bolt :
oO eer
cC1 ePereiodi cal ___% of stock by/for/about women
OC Lesbia“n & Gay
___% of staff are women
C Gay
&---
Po
Ju/ lAuygus t 1999Feminist Bookstore News
Gaffney’s The cI un rv re en ntt li yn ,g cara egN ie vw Fa ism i bl yy defP ao ul li tt ,i cs n, os nh ee s ra ey ss ont sh ia -t
ble on audio: Patricia i ng , o ’ s p
ge 1 04 abridged, 4 cassettes, 5 a bility. She argues that this part of our “general
0375-40746 welfare” (as guaranteed by the Constitution) should
be the joint responsibility of the family, the private
employer, and the government. This radically rede-
RH-Knopt after The Female Eunuch fines and recasts “care” to a place
Thir zty e d yea t’ hs e wom en’s movement, outside private family structures, an
Gga e rv ma an i nee e Gre or has written a sequel. And economic responsibility of the country
again, ladies. In The as a whole. A smart and necessary analy-
pote © Se Boies the state of sis. $24 cl, 0-375-40015-X, August.
pihole a and describes how femi- Bliss Broyard has written her first
g nir so mm an hah so o gone by by the wayside in the book, a collection of short stories, My
uest for liberation. Though women Father, Dancing, portraits of fathers and
have made progress, we still suffer from daughters. The fathers in these stories are
discrimination and exploitation, from smooth and charismatic, sophisticated and
the care of our bodies to the care of our intelligent. They are also users and cheats.
households, from workplace to mar- And “the lessons they unwittingly teach
ketplace. From the book: “Even as their daughters about love and marriage, sex
| feminism is trying to transform atti- and power, and finding a way in the world
tudes, marketing is obliterating its traces. In are at the heart of this beautiful debut
commercial after commercial, the performer of mind- collection.” $22 cl, 0-375-40060-5, August. —TMR
less routine tasks is an inanely smiling woman, unless
some inanely smiling man pops up to demonstrate a RH-Shambhala
new and better way of using even more of the product Voices of Light: Spiritual and Visionary Poems
by dint of making her look a complete fool.” An by Women Around the World, from Ancient
impassioned critique against the complacency and Sumeria to Now edited by Aliki Barnstone collects
denial thathave replaced feminist determination, and the poetry of women from 36 languages and cultures,
| ofthe society that cannot support the momentum for from the first known poet, Enhueduanna, a moon
change. $25 cl, 0-375-40747-2,
priestess and the daughter of the King of Sumeria
In The Pig Farmer’s Daughter and Other Tales who chiseled her poetry onto cuneiform tablets four
oo f American Justice: Episodes of Racism and Sexism thousand years ago, to the poets of the present day.
| = eas from 1865 to the Present, Mary Frances These poets celebrate very different experiences,
Bite Sus through centuries of civil and criminal cultures, and classes. Includes poetry from all the
aite gS Well as American case law to show how hard hitters: Hatshepsut, Sappho, Hildegard, H.D.,
attitudes toward race class d d i
have affected and continue tc ok ee Wislawa Szymborska, Anne Sexton, and others. $25
} aking Includes an nue to affect judicial decision cl, 1-57062-283-3, August. —TMR
} ones chosen beet we amazing case studies (and the
Ress Ehockin i € 1980s and 90s aren’t really any RH-Three Rivers
Ber "S & than the ones from the 1860s) and The Visualization Sourcebook: Using Imagina-
678. rely Sharp, smart analysis. $24 cl, tion, Intuition, and Mindfulness to Heal Ourselves,
Our Communities, and Our Planet by Margo Adair
| quenceO na Harr} in gton tackles an i‘ mportant conse- helps readers design visualizations and meditations
" Teent dec, Hes phic changes that have occurred in “for every issue people face in contemporary life. It s
| ¢ a s on‘ The care of the elderly, historically a book that will help people become more effective in
Mil as thos Pon the unpaid labor of women, is in tur- their everyday lives as well as increase their sense of
Women ang e@a e . ponies necessarily become paid | values and their sense of connection to the earth. $15
ew :
ume 29 Nias orkforce. In Care and Equality: pb, 0-609-80364-6, August.
119 July/August 1999Feminist Bookstore News
Now available in a reprinted version: After Geryon remembers the pain of desire and ultimat
Silence: Rape and My Journey Back by Nancy releases his creativity and imagination to its aii
Venable Raine is a courageous individual account of extent. According to the catalog, this work is “q Rt
the aftermath of rape with searing insights about rape foundly moving portrait of an artist coming to te iy
and society. $14 pb, 0-609-80419-7, August. —TMR 0wi -t 3h 7 5-t 7h 0e 1 29f -a Xnt ,a st Ai uc g usa tc .c ident of who he js.” $12 Pb,
Vintage Classics is releasing a new edition
RH-Times
Fannie: The Amazing Rise to Fame of Author Willa Cather’s Song of the Lark, a powerfy] —
Fannie Hurst by Brooke Kroeger chronicles a woman of an aritst’s self-creation. $12 pb, 0-375-70645°4
~Tn
who was, in the first half of this century, the most August.
commercially successful and critically derided
women’s fiction writer. She wrote 26 books, spoke on Routledge
women’s rights and Communism, won many Testing Women, Testing the Fetus: The Social
awards, lived in a nontraditional marriage (she and Impact of Amniocentesis in America by Rayna
her husband lived, to the horror of the press, apart for Rapp. A leading feminist anthropologist explores the
a time), made lucrative film deals, and was close nature of prenatal diagnosis and its social impact and
friends with Eleanor and Franklin Roosevelt and Zora cultural meaning through the narratives of People
Neale Hurston. She was famous in her time, nearly who have experienced it. $30 cl, 0-415-91644-5
forgotten now, and Kroeger uses her story to cast light August.
on “the backslide in the progress of American women White Weddings: Romancing Heterosexuality
from the Depression to the mid-1960s.” $27.50 cl, in Popular Culture by Chrys Ingraham. A professor
0-8129-2497-5, August. —TMR of sociology (and a woman with a good sense of
humor), Ingraham has talked about doing this book
RH-Vintage
for years. She looks at how weddings are part
The Murder of Helen Jewett by | of a belief system that relies on romantic and
historian Patricia Cline Cohen is a
sacred notions of heterosexuality to main-
recreation of one of the most sensa- | tain the illusion of normalcy. A serious study
tional events of the 19th century, an
event whose media portrayals have a of weddings in popular culture, the bookis
also chock-full of interesting factoids rein-
some significant similarities to some of THE FLOWER _ forcing the author’s point; for example, only
the most infamous trials of our time. IN THE SKULY three covers of Bride magazine have fea-
Helen Jewett, a prostitute in ™~
Manhattan, was murdered outside the (\KathleenAleala / tured a woman of color since 1959. This
brothel in which she lived. The accused § should do well with any audience looking
sm ou nr , de wr he or iw na ss i sth ee dr l to hv ae tr , heR i wc ah sa rd nR no ob ci en n- | t co u lu tun rd ee .r st $1a 7n .d 9 9 (a pn bd , c 0h -u 4c 1k 5l -e 9 18o 4v 0e -r 5) ; po $p 7u 0l at l
i t | J
throughout his trial. Cohen’s research is J -91839-1, August.
Wta e eof de tec iti eo sn an 1:d as So ci ga rl pnh pi is nt gor y, an fid tT hh ee nI gm p o bs ys ni Pb aii tvl rii ct ey Dilo Qf iM no t ih oe .ar nh Po ao d t:
i
e S i e e , a s a c e t ion. $14 pb, Problem oF f e Mm oi n i s r im , I d i d u a i us m z d r t h oe f
Anne Carson’s Autobiography the Thinking Gender series, this title looks at how
of Red: A Novel
in Verse, praised by Michael Ondaat thinkers like Beauvior, Kristeva, Chodorow, 4"
a
Munro, reimagines an ancie He and Alice Rich struggle to analyze mothering from 4 Poe
Structuralist philosophy. You know if this is for oe
store! $19.99 pb, 0-415-91023-4; $70 cl, -91022
August.
One Nation Under God? Religion and Ame? Py
can Culture edited by Marjorie Garber and Rebe®
July/August 1999 Walkowitz, with a foreword by Cornel West
H
120
Volume 22 Nuee =
Feminist
Bookstore
News
E
an & ;
TEL Biri AL
Peli: a1
alt
a
: 5 how religion manifests itself in Important news for mystery buffs is the paper-
oa . a ee resa st is ou nb sj ,e ct ts su Hch loas at uh se na Mtu er me -of b Wa ic ck k edr ele Ga as me eso f byt he Elll ea nt est arJ ta ne $5.L 9a 9,w le 0s -s 12-m 9y 6s 7t 0e 7.r 1y
e ce, ae xp h e o c t o H ( 3 ,
eO ee pb Re 0 -e 41e 5d -9 222c 4lo -s 0e ;t , $7c 5u lt cs l, -of 9 22d 2e 3a -t 2h ,, Aa un gd u stm .o re. A du ig su cs ut s) s. e d At f emF ie nm ii sn t is st t orB eo s ok rs eto cr oe m meD nay ds i ngth is gay ye ar m, e nw ’e s
—Mary Ellen Kavanaugh titles to each other. If this is something your store is
My Sisters’ Words/Syracuse NY considering, you can’t go wrong with Grant Michaels’
humorous Stan Kraychik mystery series. The latest,
St. Martin’s Press newly released in paper, is Dead as a Doormnail.
Susan Fox Rogers, who edited Sportsdykes, ($12.95, 0-312-20644-5.) —Suzanne Corson
Another Wilderness, and others, has a new Facing the Extreme by Ruth Anne Kocour with
lesbian-themed anthology, Women on the Verge. Michael Hodgson chronicles the author’s survival
Among the included authors are Lucy Jane Bledsoe of a two-week storm (including blinding snows, a
and Karla Jay. ($13.95 pb, 0-312-20971-1, August.) wind chill of minus 150 degrees, and deadly hidden
August also brings the paperback release of Service crevasses) that killed eleven other climbers on
of Clouds by Delia Falconer, whose writing was Alaska’s Mt. McKinley. She shows readers the spirit
described by one reviewer as a combination of that drives mountaineers as she tells her story of
Gabriel Garcia Marquez and Jeanette Winterson, reaching McKinley’s peak. $6.99 pb, 0-312-96985-6.
heavy in metaphor and gorgeous writing. ($13,
0-312-20969-X, August.)
Girls on the Verge: Debutante Dips, Gang
_ Drive-Bys and Other Initiations by Vendela Vida is
- an exploration of life for some adolescent girls today.
_ These are cautionary tales for our women’s studies
Sections. $19.95 cl, 0-312-20044-7, August. Nikki Giovanni said of Asha Bandele’s memoir
For biographies, there’s Katharine Hepburn by The Prisoner's Wife: “This book needs to be read by
Anne Edwards (Streisand: A Biography) ($16.95 pb, anyone who has ever hummed a tune on the day the
—0-312-20656-9, August), and for Virginia Woolf rent was due; by anyone who tapped her foot on the
_ devotees, Marriage of Heaven and Hell: Manic day the kids needed money for the school trip; by
| Depression and the Life of Virginia Woolf by Peter anyone who is sitting drinking coffee because she’s
_ Dally ($24.95 cl, 0-312-20559-7). hungry and there isn’t enough to go around. By any-
.r Tcouldn’t resist telling you about this title, espe- one who has paid a price for love.” Bandele, a
os with the current pop-culture interest in all Brooklyn performance poet, writes beautifully
= ee The Mary Tyler Moore Show by Sylvia about her courtship and marriage to a man Serving
sae ame iy stories and trivia about one of 20 years to life for murder. The book begins, “This is
| 0-310-95045.1, about a “liberated woman.” $5.99 pb, a love story like every other love story I had always
known, like no love story I could ever have imag-
ae ersith oo ns e wh Mo dic ca ir nny d Ci av ri dn sa :t io Tn too Dl is s, ovt eh re yr e’s ofa bin re id g. It c’ os ore sv ,e r cy at nh di ln eg scI ea nl tw ea dy s oot mh so ,u gh ot ane e a=
v Of e e h e c h t l - r r ge i ;
Power Through the Wa ys of Anim5 als by Jamie: Sry a ms lavender amethyst. It’s everything | always thoug
0an3d1 22A0ng4e5l1a4 C - Werneke on the way. $29.95 cl, grotesque, disfigured. It’s long twisting exw po ou sn ed ds ., ”
open and unhealed, nerves prii cked raw raw,
July/August 1999
lume 22 Number 2
121Feminist Bookstore News
they can do so wisely and joyously, $1)
An incredible, intense, stunnini gly writi ten memoir. 0-684-84444-3. Pb,
1, 0-684-85073-7. Rebecca Chace, the author of Cautauqua Summ
The renowned minister and author lyanla a memoir of her time as a trapeze artist Perform,”
Vanzant (One Day My Soul Just Opened with the Flying Karamazoy Brothed
Up, In the Meantime, et al.) has a Aad has written her first novel, Capture 7.
one: Yesterday I Cried: Celebrating Flag. Set in 1970s New York and Ne e
the Lessons of Living and Loving.
York City, the story centers aroung
Here Vanzant talks of her own very Annie as she struggles with her ambigy
difficult life to demonstrate how | +. is
ous sexuality, the dissolution of he
hard times can be relanguaged and |
family, and the problem of being a chi] 4
revisioned to become lessons that
of the Beat generation. $23
teach readers to grow, heal, and
learn to love. $22 cl, 0-684-86424-X. 0-684-85758-8, August. d
In With the Phoenix Rising: S&S is comparing Susan Perabo
Lessons from Ten Resilient oe author of the new short story collection
Women Who Overcame the Who I Was Supposed to Be, to Pam Hoys.
Trauma of Childhood Sexual Abuse by Frances K. ton. She explores with “wry empathy”
Grossman with Alexandra B. Cook, Selin S. Kepkep, characters and their unusual everyday Struggles,
and Karestan C. Koenen, the authors study ten Another new voice that is young, quirky, telling sto-
women who have survived childhood trauma to lead ries that are full of unusual twists. $20 cl,
happy and successful lives. Through interviews, the 0-684-86233-6, August. —TMR
women share the factors that contributed to their
resiliency. The authors use the women’s insights to Sounds True
provide suggestions for those working with abuse Now available on audio: Natalie Goldberg reads
survivors and for survivors themselves. $39.95 cl, her famous Writing Down the Bones. For this collec.
0-7879-4784-9, Jossey-Bass.
tor’s edition, Goldberg also brings listeners up to date
Lana Witt (Slow Dancing on Dinosaur Bones) has on her latest thinking about writing and the writer's
written a new novel, The Heart of a Thirsty Woman. life. $29.95 unabridged, 6 cassettes, 1-56455-668-9.
Josie Tolliver is 27 and tired of life in Pick, Kentucky.
—TMR 0
She decides that she wants to move out West, and
0masmt i -r ia a s 6rk n nt i 8e , e evs 4r i n 8h a g 4ae tl 1nr ho d en a tgu n 5t pfw ,how ai e ri t t t Sht h r Ci e ran a ishg hl be t i e nr za r e.h a n u t .e i Ss d lohb ia ne fa ’ en s td s he saa t hDrC oocl n usha h ler ese d n J c u ae f a lo, n tor , an kea h e e .eT r c v V ae n nm $ t 2ir d 3ue s ep as ta li ei ln crr lyg -- s G P (M h $t yy 5is r p .lt i s 9ae 9p y d r ep i le pe pRr h bs o- ,i, s at e u 0rc I -Ln no 3e qen 1e udt i 2-i r -a in e 9n rmu ae 0Td t 9oh e n 5e eu -f 1rr ,- Mo o fsm i l r t Oe ap h ccu ea tlt g oeh be e es rS t2 i .t 5 n )r. mi p yt , sh Bte ae n rra tig m hee e osn ld r oe o f by ws 1 i 9 'n 9t sc 8he .e
- 5 2 - c r f 7 b m e
follow-up is Drag Strip, set in Panama City, Florida.
Se ee rea i eee ($23.95 cl, 0-312-20295-4, October.)
Change Your Life With hese en Last, here’s a true crime case that looks inter-
kU il ct ki ma bt ae Nap nP Bo B to ao o kkk a af f ca f ai rn r ee m s ofe p eo thp le in thet io rt B de ed s: i reT he to e Cs lt ii nn eg : CoT hh ee M Iu nr d Ne er o Yf rH el Ce in J ie we 1t 8t by roP sa tt ir ti uc ti ea
c k a d e n . w o k t y n 3 6, p
0-684-85930-0, emselves. $9.95 cl,
Helen Jewett was murdered in her sleep, app
ently by her lover, respectable young Richard
Robinson, who steadfastly maintained his inn
cence. The trial became a media sensatiom
prompting critics to compare the book to some co™
temporary cases. Critics said, “Impressiv®
peta and thought-provoking.... Meticulor”
and arresting.”
sting.” $14 tp, 0-679-74075-9, vi e;
122 92 Number”
VolumeFeminist Bookstore News
==
\
Advertisers
Index of
|
Se | WaiadPrese: sc <a sates trtretn eects C2, 87
I‘ R| ci tb o o Ak Ts 74,77, C 8 73 3 4, , ,8 78 6 76 | oN ON ue o trw t oh fnV e gi r rc hnt elo S r iui Dina iP d.u eb . tsl . iii . mgs .. enh 0 se ..r ..s - .. + .. 2+ .. 0+ .. .0s +. +. e +.+. s + e +- e.e +- se s++ e.+2e+ r++ er e-+ .e + eee e: 2e r4e e- 7: 77 6 7:6 77 0, , 78 8 20 5
M B) oat oc roh ae dSm oi ss t s , SI 3 Oe ei ea el 75 18 ,, 7 2 | O G N P u tb gc a t ao mn s . . . . - + + ++ + + e e ee e n 3 0
. | 7 3 n e a y rr l . + , , ,8 5
i a
s
e
| ‘ i o| | iBeB aits e tof e sC .e il ea tPs io ey an o w g ee . n. j e. re ; . ee c. ee e e s4 0, 8 37 g41 i0 ° | | | P p P -a oh Rt ls a e s nP tW dae h ora o é mr l el sm Hqa sa o:l un e s s: eei .D t «es exi i wtg asn rss e o :t. . esit. i 1. e 5e+ % - l t+ es a 1v t+ 0ee ,+ n+ 1+ 0: c+ 8nc+ ,er + eis c? 1t s 1 e 05 r ,s9 a> te 1e 1e 4c7 7 ,9 t6 , , 18 18 312 66
|| DCCBa ao re ll oe o er ya p d oi< ei r. cbC hla iCr iu vod ea e n ni& rd cC ee tu se sr oi h. o rs! ei ei .( t .O y .y -RR .-E S .« -. --t. --. D ++ -O - 0-- +e - 2- 0- -e .- + 0+ e+e ,s+ e2+e 7 e2:5 0, 1177 9808 2 876 R RR R aea ui in tnv v gd gne e eei in r rt b si a R o n rSne k eUesc o er P vP rod Sesti r ttn se ue Pg ir tys s. o. . .P. .. c. . . .. e rr. .e- .- . S: .+ a .Sn+ - .ie+ .(-s ..s e - .r std .+ .r ace 0c5+e ar +r eAsr +e ee +o.re e rt 0e aes ecs +r 5ooe e snt e e 6 T6 s , 1 08 7 e02 4
|1 ! | C u l t w u n r e P u Q s nh Pen g i / T n .. . i v -e r s e - + +s i + n 0 7o 1 7 6 , | SR o e S t e l n tl i r dr yo i d u . Re s , . g i RE e S . ie A + 0 S ( + E . S E o i e d 6 2 9 0
|| k A
i| DD oie ns ni g en yi nn Ceh oyy te ts .sH .ta .s .a n 69 7,d iO 6O O --e 7e +e 8e 0e 8770 4, 887 544 SS Sa ll va em ri a or Wf, vL eC i: Rs e ec.ps o0 rc dp se n .c .+e ..t s : .2= .s +en -ie ee -n .c +ei ee c +o 0ele -el e 5nne :ss 8 60 2T, E8 83
H| } | D o n lM la /l l C u .o m . . De s g n 8,. . 7. 2. , . 7. 6- , 9- ,+ - , 9 , , | ii g n s a P r d e . . 6 . . .+ .2+ . s n c + + +. t I , ) 3
i Barth Gypsy ....-.0e2sc-en0t 0 eeee es rene ce s 87 Simon & Schuster/Scribner .........6.s505 11
| Emerald Earth Publishing.........---.-+-- 63, 83 Slithering s. A227 © Sas Saale ty tenn 39, 78
BEPNEMCLA 0... 2. s ee evens eens 67, 68, 82 Snake and Snake Productions ......... 59, 68, 85
BPeTCRGON TOSS oilcl leis wha a desu som mre eeat Os TLe75 rel0)(OLONC=a) Rites cen ay ce. oO AO a ena 29s 81, 86
> LITE WEY CTS a eS 80, 84 Spiral Woman: cenaa e ee e 77,78, 82, 85
Soldenrod’ Music... .0.2..26.2. 20. 20.2 e. 64, 83 Stewart, Tabori, & Chang............. 56, 69, 80
BiatperoanPranciscO. «2.2... +.2.2.0200++-- 106 Sticker Sisters’. .722< se sn ceeeee ee 46,75, 77
Indiana University Press...............++-- 102 Syracuse Cultural Workers ..... 38, 69, 71, 84, 86
GR RIOe 70 I, 69, 79 Tantus: valss esis sestec sees CeeO U Oe
CISA RS GIR SI Os ea 71,73 Teen. Voices...ftous. ee ete ee Oa eo
E., “ae aie itleincleririnieit gi in ne 10,108 | Three Tacky Texans................+++-- 70, 69
Book Distributors, Inc. ................. 4 Times - Books Gerd eee eee 114
_ i = ae 63, 83 Tor/FOrge: cin ae tee solos carmen <areren tears 8
Ao. Sh aes AP a 41, 76, 87 Touch and Be Touched ............... 42, 70, 74
SOS Sock Bn, Sone 61, 82 Tribe of Diynah/Shiloh McCloud......... 43,73
NSERC Salsas Os ches 5 12 Triple Spiral Publications .............-+.-..73
Entertainment...............-.-.
ey Oo 2a ara 57, 68 Uproar 44,74
ae eo eee 72, 81 NIXON CTEAUONS \e sieieious 55 pan in elers eoeeeios) Sales 52, 84
r Tongue Ink OTC aa 112 Water Sound Ss nae paces hae umoaea Malet 42,74
SIRS 60, 68, 72 Winged Willow Press/Sudie Rakusin..... CL,73
le... BRE 6 58) 0 io. Sse 81, 86 Wolfe VIGGO ge coe Bee cer cowie Rus Ae 87, 88
123 July/August 1999_a E PERSO NALS
Sit ee | several projects at one time. Koen offers an excitin
opportunity for career advancement. Koen offers an
excellent salary and benefits package. To apply
ttTS o iho r ee . sj ,o W Du o ur dtmn eiee e vnr s e’ s lF oie n pFm c ioi lr nn uu gi dm s e,t fcsI ie on ne os art k ni ds ct i iu na at a le d t, y in np pa gu lm b ail nfci sus nh e de x r ar e a c i do u s f t i i nS bv go ue j o gu ad cr ei tn tr ie e svr c i ,: - - hp D Bril .se O,ta os Or Me y o o s t roe en WK sd o t/ Ae of na w x n Bo ENr o Je k Ds u 0 /D 8m i 0e S5s, 7t E;r i Rc b fo u a Vv t xe o Ir r 6 s C0 9l - Ee I 2t nct 3 S.e 5,r - , 81 60 a 1n 4Td .w oss oal mar ey
n d
K N T
odi vr ee rc st ei en ig go rg pa en ri sz oa nt ni eo ln al lp icl ia en sn i an ng a sn td ffd e sv ue pl ero vp im se in ot n,
,
n po d a
pr ue bp lr ie c,s en at ni dn g g uiS do ij no gu rn Be or a rd Fe dm ei vni es lt o pmI en ns tt .i tu Tte h e t do i ret ch -e W fra en et le and c: e , 1 h99 o8 m e-A bB aA s edH an bod ob ko ok bu yeo rf . Pu Pb al yi sh ue pr s to fo $r 2 5,a
tor is also responsible for leadership in developing plus P/H, for Handbook when your 99 edition
the institute’s activist/educational work on welfare arrives. I’m also available for frontlist and backlist
organizing, young feminist journalist training buying. 12 years’ experience in feminist book buying,
programs, and the women in prison project. Candi- specializing in spirituality, psych, children’s, alterna-
communication/organi-
dates should have excellent tive health, video, and audio book (rental and retail).
zational skills, fundraising experience, interpersonal Donna, 612-823-2442.
and problem-solving skills, and commitment to
progressive and feminist news and opinion. Experi- BOOK AND CATALOG DESIGN
ence in nonprofit organizations and the publishing
industry is helpful, and familiarity with communi-
Book and Catalog Design. For 15 years, we have
ties of color, feminist, and queer communities is
been designing and producing books, catalogs, and
important. Salary DOE; excellent benefits. For more
other publications. We are located in San Francis©,
ES eHOn, contact Sojourner Feminist Institute but have worked successfully with writers, publish-
Search Committee, 42 Seaverns Ave., Jamaica Pisin
ers, and printers in all parts of the country. Call tose
aMAc e0s21 31;i k6 17-524-04 15, emailj <edsearch@
samples of our work and discuss an upcoming
project. Pat Koren and Laurie Smith, Kajun Desig™
415-863-2494.
FBN Classified Ads — $10 for first 50 words, ©
cents for each additional word. 25% discount for3°
more insertions paid at one time. Payment must
accompany ad. No charge for “Help Wanted
listings up to 100 words. Send to FBN, Attn:
"4 Variety Assistant Editor, PO Box 882554, San Francisco
Proposals, and {oll of re-
qualifying, Customer 94188; Phone 415-642-9993, fax 415-642-999 o
nd be able to juggle email <TeriMae@FemBkNews.com>. —_——
ee pet?
124
Volume 22 N |
oeAKE EYES
Mystery
= 7th Helen Black
f hb ory H wae gP l ma Ae et ln n i t sW s ore nel m oc f heh u m h geb gre er dce ad r h e ee rrt h e l O aU td e ra te hat nib gul hio tl ,s d e id n h eg l h de ar n hd eo rf f iii n cc te lo o sf eoo br li at v nh i de o n.l e a vst eS nh t ei m ce rc, i eo du ca r ft ori o ng Tt hh er, e final
mourn Rees ; remember was actually feelij ng anythini g. Not ange r, not
What Hele
Beep laione shipe one aha ky ground, Helen and Alison leave fora weekend at a
'
a cold-blooded killer ii s bettii ng that Helen can be lure d back SiRnLto tthe gName. a bar
CAPTIVE HEART
by Frankie J. Jones y Sif } e
? i ... but it can sure rent a lot of it. And with her rich
Oy be ais Bers yeaty sioht-yoar-old CJ Riley lives in a world of fast cars,
ed eda and zero responsibility. Attractive, arrogant, charming when-she-
vas the CJ is used to getting what she wants, when she wants it... until she is
EB caaver for speeding by San Antonio Police Officer Lois Franklin. Intense and by-
be book the tall, tanned cop is not impressed by CJ's wealth or her advances.
Never one to resist a challenge, CJ sets out to add Lois to her conquests a
unaware that a shocking chain of events is about to unfold. Events that will forever
change her life— and her heart.
ISBN: 1-56280-258-5 $11.95
Draw SEATON: ONE OF OUR OWN
FRANKIE J. JONES
"q by Diane Salvatore
“| really don’t think | can help you, Carly.” As soon as the words were out of her
mouth, Lela felt her heart start to pound. The scream of the train whistle began in
s“h Se er myh ee dwa id a an gd th e ir eeb do vd oy er e “g Yi ois uet de r pe rod t sh Te !s h ri Cum omm my no gf at cah kne tr wa hc ik ss lia ns t whe ret rai sn d lr oue dw n te ha er e ar i.
t e a t h m m e n ! e” t z h . i c . . c r u o t m. i eh de b l e i b !d ” t g e o , r
Carly Matson has a secret. So does Lela Johns.
PPoa l rs n i iA e gt s hat otnr o n fa e tc rE rt h n ii eg grv ol fg e i e s s r hh t sa e un rdd t me oe n e wa ta ml c ns oo ,h o r ef i fr, t ee h ase raL te l ap fa F r no er r dt a J tn Lyo k g, eh l l in i a lns s h —y fH w oia rCg n maht oer s vl m yw o h r n i M ilo aet a e h t s di s s en oh cg sne ao m ec c to :o eor rm me rp i el bs let e th a e tn ts o h eht yo eh re rf h i afn od vi ris e h s hs ee kh lr ee pt pr .a t t ib Co Lr ai en re l. lf a y ’Tt s ahe n eu nr e
u t e r d
ISBN: 1-56280-243-7 $11.95
The Naiad Press, Inc.
(P 8.O 5. 0 ) Bo 5x 3 910 -54 53 9 »6« T 5Fa ax l lah (a 85s 0s ee 5, 3 9-FL 9 733 12 30 ©2
1-800-533-
www.naiadprese.
con
eee“Talistones»
Pocket Size “Worry Stones” from
The Alchemists® Collection
Ancient River Pebbles of Quartz, Jasper & Agate
SandCarved in the U.S.A. with Words, Symbols and Images
Hundreds of Designs, Exchange Policy, Custom Etching
1.800.735.0830
Free Catalogue call