Feminist
Bookstore
News El
i< < o C T E a 1 A VU し EE
へ[Ye に V人 l M Y HVi R te) \ A 9 人 e 2d
ce fh , W RAEO Da NSL PRa
“Us <
‘ (Ef
Women and Travel Issue
January/February 1994 Volume 16 Number 5
E N< NULI N ンG 4 SEea\ Om F3207q 4214]94
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:18 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsТһе
МЕХТ ТІМЕ, РОУЅНЕО ВАСК
ЅНЕ^Ш ВЕ ОЕАО ТО ЅТВЕМСОТН
Вайнегіпд апе Ном “ВоіООр0 ВАЕ А Віасєк Мота” 5
ѓо Ѕор ї№# Јошгпеу Ноте
АММ ЈОМЕЅ – Ном Мазай СІОВІА УУАРЕ-САҮЕ5
ҒОКЕУУОКО ВУ
“УУһеег уои'ге ап Скокі Йе ү ЈОНММЕТТА В. СОЈЕ
іпаіуіанаі отап р
ІооКіпо Гог һер ога
геааег ІооКіпо Гог ће
гої аБоці Ње Њ№оцѕапаѕ
оГ мотеп мо аге
Банегеа Ьу Ње теп Њеу
ЅЇї һу ее / І м і В, е М Ое ех аі с ! Т іі зт е , Ње опе АВЕ МО ОО О В, О ЅВ ЕВ $ЕАО, СІТУ МОМЕМ
БооК уои ѕһоџід геа.” Ном Мепѕігиайїот К ЕОІТЕО ВУ 17 НЕКОМ
—СЇогіа Зіеіпет Сгеаќей е М/огіа эЕихеу ПОНЕ Ѕоте ое ћ№мепіїеїћ
$22.00 һагасоҹмег ЈОВУ СКАНМ сепіигу’з Беѕі отеп
ҒОКЕМУОВО ВУ мигііегэ Шитіпаіе Ње Ге
СНАВІЕМЕ 5РКЕТМАК
оЁЊе могіс дгеаї сіһез.
“ВІоосі, Вгеаа, апа “Веса!Йпој һег ра МУЊ ѕіогіез Бу Топі
СВ ео тѕ оеѕ п, ѕ і га ап о п е х оі Ёга о ћга еіпагу уГо от Іи па і е еѕ гї п і і о а ѕ а а с а гС еО еВ г Е аѕ М Рао гг Кгі еѕ го ,п , А пО по г о Ру еїгу,
сгеаїуіу Њаі мотап ап асааетіс, У/аае- Сһгіѕіа УУоіҒ, Уігаіпіа
Неѕһ іѕ һеіг іо, оНегэ Сауіеѕ ѕһагез а Бінег- УУоо|Ғ ап оћегэ.
сїп оѕ пі аа ї№ но п іп Њіо а ѓћ е п о һ и һт оа тп ап, ѕ ру еоге ре іеі р ѕиог гі уг іа уіі е а о Њ һ ео пм ао пц аг $15.00 рарегЬаск
рге-, роѕі- ог поптеп- тоуѕі сопіїпие їо ѕигуіме
ѕігоа!, мні мапі іо до пом. —Еѕѕепсе
миіћоці. "— ап Егапсіѕсо
Вау Сиагскап $20.00 һагасоуег
$22.00 һагасоуег
5 ІМ СЕ 1 8 5 4
ГУТ В ГВ ШТЕР ВЕУ РОА ОРВА ЎТРВАШЭУ & С ІРО ЈОХ ВЕАСОМ
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:18 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsRRE Fem inEist BEooksEtore E News
O 0 0 0S 00 0:0 70;
Welcome to the Women and Travel issue! It organized conferences, made a video, done a lot of
started as a wild idea at eight o'clock one morning. writing and reads with a passion. She’s planning to
But, thanks to some brilliant suggestions from go to graduate school in the fall, so we'll hire for
friends and supporters and a lot of hard work, that this position again in the summer. It was a brilliant
eight a.m. idea turned into an exciting look at the hire at a strategic moment, if I do say so myself!
state of women’s travel and adventure writing. FBN made the New York Times! We were quoted
Special thanks to all of the women who wrote arti- in an op ed piece on December 4. I think this is a first.
cles and prepared book lists during the hectic pre- It’s been a wonderful, hectic ‘fall. As.soon as I
holiday weeks! We had such a good time with this hired Susan, I set out for Boston for the Women’s
issue that we’re thinking about doing a second Review of Books Tenth Anniversary conference,
Women and Travel issue next January. What do Women Reviewing Women, then flew back via
you think? Houston and Denver, visiting bookstores in all
You've probably already found the inserts for three cities. It was the kind of trip that’s re-energiz-
this issue — a copy of Sojourner's wonderful article ing and inspiring.
on feminist bookstores and the Lammies Ballot. I I'm working on an article on bookstore advertis-
wanted to reprint the Sojourner article in FBN but ing budgets. How much do you spend? What per-
this ready-to-take-to-the-copy-shop version was cent of your budget goes to advertising? Where do
even better. Copy thousands and put them on your you spend it? What works? What are your most
front counter! Stuff them in customers’ bags! If you successful ads? Call me and fill me in. :
want to reprint the article in your newsletter or in Yours in spreading the words,
your local paper, call Soj for an official OK. Carol Seajay O
We usually reprint the Lammies Ballot in FBN,
but then people have to tear up the magazine to
send it in — and somehow it doesn’t get done.
Booksellers (and other FBN subscribers) have a
unique perspective on lesbian and gay literature —
one that needs to be heard as the nominees are Spring Announcements
selected. You don’t have to nominate in every cate- March-April 1994
gory — just do the categories that evoke passionate
feelings. While you're at the copy shop you could January 21
reproduce a stack of ballots and set them on your
frorlt counter.
Please join me in welcoming Susan Buie to ABA "94 Issue
FBN’s staff. Susan has taken on all the ad manager
and administrative assistant tasks. She’s a long- _ May-June 1994
time member of our local book community and has
worked in bookstores (A Different Light-SF), done March 18
fulfillment for feminist publishers (Aunt Lute),
Volume 16 Number 5 Janaury 1994
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:18 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsDEADLY RENDEZVOUS: Diane Davidson DANGER! CROSS CURRENTS: Sharon Gilligan
A Toni Underwood Mystery An Alix Nicholson Mystery
ISBN 1-883061-02-4 ISBN 1-883061-01-6
Pb; 4-color cover; Avail. 2/94; Price: $9.99 Pb; 4-color cover; Avail. 2/94; Price: $9.99
Lieutenant Toni Underwood is the classic soft- In this exciting sequel to Danger in High Places,
hearted cop with the hard-boiled attitude, and she is baffled freelance photographer Alix Nicholson is teaching photog-
by her newest case—a string of brutal murders, in the middle raphy at Pacific Arts, a college idyllically located on
of the desert, bodies dumped on the Interstate. As Toni Californias North Coast. But as she quickly discovers,
and her partner Sally search for clues, they unravel a sinis- there are ugly goings-on beneath the surface beauty of her
ter network of corruption, drugs and murder. surroundings.
Set in picturesque Palm Springs, California, this When her landlady, a real estate developer, turns
chilling, fast-paced mystery takes many unexpected twists up dead, and the police arrest Leah Claire, the woman's
and turns and finally reveals the dark side of the human much younger lover, Alix is rapidly drawn into a complex
mind, as well as the enduring love between two women. A web of intrigue and murder.
suspenseful, explosive, action-packed whodunit. As she frantically searches for a way to free Leah,
Alix unexpectedly finds herself at the dawn of a new ro-
HEARTSTONE AND SABER Jacqui Singleton mance ... and on the brink of her own destruction. A satis-
ISBN 1-883061-00-8 fying, well-crafted mystery.
Pb; 4-color cover; Avail. 2/94; Price: $10.99
WARRIORS OF ISIS Jean Stewart
You can almost hear the sabers clash in this rous- ISBN 1-883061-03-2
ing tale of good and evil and passionate love, of warrior Pb; 4-color cover; Avail. 3/94; Price: $10.99
queens, white witches and sorcerers.
After the devastating raid on her village, Elayna Fans of Return to Isis and Isis Rising will relish
and her brother are captured and nearly sold into slavery. this third book in the series. Whit, Kali, Lilith and com-
Saved from this terrible fate by the imperious warrior queen, pany return in another lusty tale of high adventure and
Cydell Ra Sadiin, Elayna is brought to the palace to serve passionate romance among the Freeland Warriors. The evil
her. The two are immediate foes. sorceress, Arinna Sojourner, has evaded capture and now
But these two powerful women are destined to threatens the very survival of the new colony of Isis. As
join forces. And so, when rumblings of war reach the pal- Whit and Kali prepare to do battle with a seemingly un-
ace, Cydell, ruler of Mauldar, and Elayna, the Fair Witch beatable foe, Danu makes her own plans to avenge a be-
of Avoreed, journey to Windsom Keep to combat the dark loved friend’s death at Arinna’s hands. Eventually, high in
menace which threatens. But along the way they must first the Cascade Mountains, they will face Arinnas terrifying
conquer the wild magik of their passionate dreams, learn magical powers.
the secrets of the heartstone, and accept the deep and rap- Once again, Stewart weaves a rich tapestry of an
turous love that will transcend the powers of evil. all-women’s society in the twenty-first century, bursting with
RISING 50% discount on orders of l aif e — b o l nov der s , b v ei tll wain es, e nh er o ai ln le s , t a hn ed a d p ie vr eil r s so e g r wea ot m it e f no rg oes f this unforgettable
30+ mixed titles. place called Isis.
1-800-648-5333
January 1994
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:18 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
FBN CONTENTS
Editor & Publisher
Carol Seajay WOMEN & TRAVEL
Editorial Ass i:s t anTtr aTvreavl e l M Gaugidaezs i nfeors . .W=:o"m..e. n ..r..e..r...e.. … ..2...7.. 23
Bawn Lundy Martin Wilderness & Adventure Books 29
Advertising Women &the Outdoors ..….............. ees 31
Sandy Buie Publishing Travel Books — Seal & 8th Mountain ..….…...35
Columnists University Press Travel Books... 39
Art Books Tee Corinne ARTICLES
Canadian Books Jana Williams Vacha: The Women’s Library in Bombay..............………... 45
Canadian Books Dorothy Seaton Bookstore News...........…. ee 13
Gay Men’s Literature Richard Labonte News/Shert Stories ..... i 7
Humor Roz Warren 6IFBF • Balkan Women’s Book Drive e Amendment2
Mainstream Publishers Sandi Torkildson Overtumed • Canada Customs e PEN Women Writers
Mysteries Nan Cinnater + Women’s WORLD
Scisics Fiction Susanna Sturgis Poetry Raves ..…....... eee 47
: Women’s Music: Hot New Releases... 71
Proofreading Dispatches:from the Road ...……...…........ 43
Pat Kelso
CVs Ari DEPARTMENTS
W oBme:n G oAingn Plnaceos uAdnverctiseinmg [Nedenx t...s........ .r i 9919
Feminist Bookstore News Back to Press & Other Good News... 55
2358 Market St. Bestsellers... r 57
PO Box 882554 Canadian Content 49
San Francisco CA 94188 ana 1an ontent..... E N E R
415-626-1556 FAX: 415-626-8970 Subscription Information ............….....….. 12
They Went. That-A-Way ................... ref 53
Printed in USA THVIA -e ds asat deiatat a 51
FEMINIST BOOKSTORE NEWS is the communications | Writing Wanted... 54
vehicle for the informal network of feminist bookstores. FBN
rUe.Sac. h aens d 5 0C0a n fadema inasi s tw ealnl d a sf e fmeimniinsti-sitn cblionoekds e lbleorosk s tinores in the TH E BOO KS
England, Europe, Australia, New Zealand, India and Japan. ATEBOOKS a nare e E TEE Etere JE 67
Librarians, women's studies teachers, book reviewers, pub- r :
litshherse a n d s fuernbinsisct:bribliiubpieilsrs. ssu.m p rGise a thye'r.eMmamenndor’ ' Gsf BLordietr eCrrosasintgu: Cranead.i.an.: Bo7ok3s... 59
Letters, articles, news items and announcements should be | Humor Books... 65
received the tenth of the month preceding publication. :
Saigunett h afoticrlesss.a nd iOlattUersr:a rs OthrWssronsp on sPibirlileyasols ethse.! . |.- fMsY5S IG FsOSm,.... ... .. t «anaeesrtee snra e e7se7a ,69
FEMINIST BOOKSTORE NEWS (ISSN: 0741-6555) is pub- Publishers Row. 2.5 sissa. N.e 91
lished bi-monthly in January, March, May, July, September, : sana
and November by FEMINIST BOOKSTORE NEWS at 2358 Science FICHON.. 5... SNe tace: en sderetaa easet eese sia 61
MYar k eot s Sita.,g sSa n h Fraaindci sc oa, f C A S 9a4l1i1 4. FSercoannd-cCilasscso, CA. POSTMASTER Short. Raves... e ireen 50
Please send address changes to FEMINIST BOOKSTORE The Small Presses... 83
NEWS, PO Box 882554, San Francisco, CA 94188-2554. University Presses... aasa 39
Volume 16 Number 5 3 January 1994
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:18 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
YOUR FAVORITE BOOKS
AND NOW... đ
SALMONBERRIES
Starring k.d. lang, superstar lesbian recording
artist in her screen debut. Directed by Percy Adlon
(Bagdad Cafe) and also starring Rosel Zech. Voted
“Artist of the Decade,” k.d. sings the movie's theme
song, the hauntingly beautiful Barefoot. Photogra-
phed amidst the breathtaking beauty of the Arctic,
Salmonberries is a memorable love story.
Cast away at the ends of the world, somewhere
between the snowy heavens and the polar sea,
two women trying to find their past lives find each
ot9he4r an d m the i pnres.e nt VinstHead.S only. $69.95
CLAIRE OF
THE MOON
A “Desert Hearts” for the ‘90's!
Satirist Claire Jabrowski and
Dr. Noel Benedict, find them-
selves as a veritable “odd
couple” while sharing a cabin
at a writer's retreat in the Pa-
cific Northwest.
Sensual, provocative, and
The official video of the
March on Washington Committee
Produced by Joan E. Biren (JEB) famous for 89.95
her magnificent lesbian visual work, this
powerful and moving video covers the joyful
protest that was the 1993 March On
Washington.
56 min. VHS only. $29.95
MARCHING FOR FREEDOM
The National Gay and Lesbian Task Force
1993 March on Washington Video.
8 Full length feature with original score. AIS a t
į MH aig rh til nig ah , t s 5 0 f r co em leb rt ah te e d m mai un s i cs it aa ng se , i cn oc mlu ed di in ang s, LAST CALL AT MAUD’S An exciting look
T Ah 7ve e n8 gM e a rr s c ,h m , t h T e h i e L ne sQ bu .ui t lt a, n t VT e h Be Ha lW l, e S d ed t cin . g, o L nesb lia yn . $29.95 a lS et s a b nM iaa nu d F l’ i's r f e a — n f rc a oi ms r c o om W a o n rft ldi rc , o W mn ao rt o Ir i li to tu s os tl oe ops db aei ya nn . i Snb ta agr r r i i nn t go , its closing —
Del Martin & Phyllis Lyon, Judy Grahn, Joann
Loulan, and more. 77 minutes. VHS only. $39.95
1-800-533-1973
November 1993 4
Volume 16 Number 4
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:18 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
LE
FBN received a copy of the following letter... publishing a book; if anything, someone should
Mama Bears Bookstore read the galley before it goes to print.
6536 Telegraph Ave. Sincerely,
Oakland, CA 94609 Jacqueline A. Gross
P 37en 5 g u Hi un d sU onSA Street AR|
New York NY 1001
Dear Sales Department Inland Book Company
Two days ago, I purchased a book under your InBook/Womensource/Inland Distribution
ROC imprint called Larissa by Emily Devenport P.O. Box 120261
(ISBN 0-451-45276-3). In many cases, I'll read a East Haven CT 06512
book and then recommend to our book buyer to Dear FBN,
purchase it through one of our distributors. Inland Distribution has just taken on U.S. distri-
What concerns me about this particular book is bution for Magnus Books, a publisher in Germany.
the cover. The author clearly describes the main Magnus recently sent out a letter to a number of
character as a Black woman (”...He pulled out three U.S. bookstores, including a number of women’s
IDs. Two were for white people, one man and one stores, advertising their first title, A Look at Boys.
woman. But the third was for a black girl who even We've received several complaints from women’s
looked a bit like me.” Devenport, page 33.) The stores about having gotten the letter, and I wanted
cover, however, shows a woman with clearly to reassure women’s stores that we had nothing to
European features and skin tone. do with the creation of this letter or who it was
As a bookseller, I know my customers look at mailed to. I also wanted to reassure you that, in
the covers of the books before they make a pur- spite of what the title might suggest, this is in fact a
chase. We talk about titles, plots, and characters perfectly harmless book of photographs. The mod-
both before and after purchasing. And one thing I els are all adult men, and they are all clothed, in
do know is that I would get many complaints about non-posed and non-suggestive situations. We do
this book for the cover alone and not the content. carry some male pictorial stuff which is pretty sug-
It really is a matter of truth in advertising. Had gestive, but this book is definitely not one of them.
the character been of mixed race, then maybe you We do not carry titles which could be construed as
could justify the cover but when one parent's face is child pornography, and have in fact refused to dis-
described as “smooth, chocolate brown surface” tribute a couple of titles from publishers when we
(page 11) and the other is described as having felt they crossed that line.
“night black skin” (page 16), it does not add up to I hope this helps clear up the situation.
what you see on the front. Best Wishes,
I hope that in bringing this to your attention, Kiriyo Spooner
your staff will make better choices in the future Womensource Sales Coordinator
before choosing both the cover and the artist before Inland Distribution Sales Manager O
Janary 1994
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2Thu, 01 Jan 1976 12:34:56 UTC
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsWHEN I Au AN OD WOMAN
I SHALL WEAR PURPLE
Thank you, feminist bookstores!
Papier-Mache Press extends our warmest appreciation
to feminist bookstores for the phenomenal success of
When I Am an Old Woman I Shall Wear Purple.
Thanks to your support, this collection of poetry,
short fiction, and photography about the gift of
aging has sold more than one million copies.
As part of our celebration we’re honored that
Jenny Joseph, the noted British author of the
title poem “Warning...When I Am an Old
Woman I Shall Wear Purple” will be
joining editor Sandra Haldeman Martz in an
eight-city tour.
When I Am an Old Woman I Shall Wear Purple, the
successful companion volume /f 7 Had My Life to Live Over I
Would Pick More Daisies, and other books are
available through Inland, Bookpeople, Pacific Pipeline,
Baker & Taylor, and Ingram.
Or call Papier-Mache Press at 1-800-927-5913.
Paostversa, iTl-sahibrts,l ean d sdweaitsrhiertsc atrely from Papier-Mache. 3108
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:18 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsth International Amendment 2 Overturned
Feminist Book Fair
Plans for the 6th International Feminist Book The Colorado lesbian, gay and feminist commu-
Fair July 27-31, 1994 are proceeding rapidly. Further nities celebrated wildly on December 14 when
funding has been received, staff that had been laid Denver District Court Judge Jeffrey Bayless ruled
off due to the gap between committed funds and that Amendment 2, Colorado’s constitutional
received funds have been rehired. Bloomsbury, a amendment designed to prohibit laws that protect
woman-owned conference service has been hired to lesbians and gay men from discrimination, is uncon-
handle the trade fair services, brochures are in the stitutional.
mail to international exhibitors and a newsletter The long awaited decision came a year after
providing an update on the 6th IFBF is being print- Colorado voters passed the anti-gay amendment
ed. All things going well, both should be included 53% to 47%. The decision will undoubtedly be
in the envelope with this issue of FBN. Contact Mev appealed to the Colorado State Supreme Court,
Miller, the Canadian/U.S. representative, to book which has already indicated that it would declare
stands. the Amendment unconstitutional if the case was
Regarding travel to and within Australia: brought to them. Immediately after the Amendment
Qantas (one of the corporate sponsors for the Fair) was passed, gay rights activists filed a preliminary
has decided not to offer an overall international dis- injunction to prevent its implementation during thè
count — there are simply too many locations to appeals process. This injunction was appealed to
cover. But they have provided an international code State Supreme Court which upheld the injunction
J2EP88 — which should get international travelers a and ruled that the amendment appeared to violate
special discount price. Ask your travel agent to try the equal protection clause of the U.S. Constitution
it. I tried it with Qantas in December and just got and that the state had to prove that barring gay
the regular 21 day advance discount fare, but I rights laws served a “compelling interest” — a very
might have been too early. Qantas ís providing a difficult standard to prove.
flat 45% discount rate for visitors traveling within During the extraordinary two-week long trial
Australia. Quote code VCVEFODB. © the state argued that the amendment was necessary
to protect Colorado from “militant gay aggression,”
The Balkan Women’s that removal of Amendment 2 would undermine
___ Book Drive Project the state's ability to enforce existing civil rights pro-
tections, violate the right to religious freedom,
The Balkan Women’s Empowerment Project harm the tradition family, and cause psychological
book drive (BWEP), launched in July from Women and emotional damage to children.
and Children First Bookstore in Chicago, and joined Judge Bayless ruled against the arguments on
by feminist bookstores across the U.S. and Canada, almost every count. He was not satisfied the “mili-
shipped 1,500 books to Croatia in response to tant gay aggression endangers the state’s political
Continued on page 8 Continued on page 8
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:18 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Colorado... continued from page 7 awfully lonely in this state and we're really looking
tunctions,” that the presence of gay rights ordi- forward to some company! Although we've had a
nances has increased the costs or impaired the lot more support from the straight community than
enforcement of other civil rights statutes, that there ever before, and although the whole thing generat-
was any connection between protecting the family ed a lot more support and activism in the lesbian
and barring gay rights laws and, finally, dismissed and gay communities, tourists are a big part of our
the argument that the amendment protected the business and the boycott hurt us. I hope that the
well-being of children by citing testimony that most organizations that put so much energy into calling
pedophiles are heterosexual, not homosexual. the boycott put half as much energy into telling
Colorado activists, confident that the ruling will people it’s OK to go to Colorado again.”
stand through appeals to the Colorado Supreme It seems likely. The latest t-shirt out of Colorado
Court, the NGLTF, and both feminist bookstores in features mountain peaks with rainbow colored
Colorado are calling for an end to the Colorado slAopes,n pinnk otriayngle s anad re adBs “Viisgit oColtora.do” — O
boycott which cost the state an estimated $120 mil-
lion in lost tourism and convention revenues alone.
The boycott is generally held to have been a very Balkan Women’s ... continued from page 7
effective civil rights organizing tool that sent a mes- requests by Croation women for information on
sage to the country that it doesn’t pay to discrimi- subjects such as rape, recovery, domestic violence,
nate against gays and lesbians. and women and war. Woman and Children First
Both feminist bookstores were planning parties staffer and BWEP co-founder Aimee Wielechowski
the day the Amendment was overturned. traveled to Zagreb in September with Susan Soric to
The Book Garden’s Kasha Songer cheered, take the first 100 books and to work on fundraising
“Now we know what it’s like to survive a boycott. I for a women’s center to aid women in recovering
think we did it gracefully — by making the store a from the effects of the war.
welcoming place for everyone — and by continuing The new women’s center has been named
to stay active and aware. I won't say that the boy- “Nona,” which means grandmother in the local
cott didn’t hurt the store — it did. But it also dialect of the Croation coastal region called
achieved its purpose — and it was worth it. Now Dalmatia, and connotes warmth, security, and a
the national community needs to learn from our “home away from home” for women whose lives
experience and learn how to boycott better. The have been brutalized by the war. Nona’s doors are
point is to boycott the parts of the state that oppress scheduled to open in December 15 to local Croation
us — not the lesbian and gay community. In their residents and women from the more than 80
zealousness to do the right thing some people actu- refugee camps in the Zagreb area.
ally considered withholding lesbian and gay sup- Women in the states, and especially those who
portive books and other items from the lesbian and have participated in the book drives or other
gay community. People under siege, as we have fundraising activities are encouraged to send or fax
been, need support.” notes of greeting, support or congratulation. The
Abaton Books, the feminist bookstore in women at Nona are eager to establish contact with
Colorado Springs, was already setting up for a big women in the states and elsewhere who have been
art show opening, and enjoyed turning the event supportive.
into a massive party and celebration. “It’s a happy Bookstores that participated in the first phase of
day here,” Abaton owner Tamara Bartlett added, the book drive include Amazon, The Book Garden,
“and it’s going to be a wonderful party. We need to Crone’s Harvest, Different Drummer Bookshoppe,
celebrate. And it’s time to dig in and remember that Inklings, Iris Books, Jane Addams Book Shop,
the Coalition for Family Values isn’t going to quit. Meristem, Mother Kali’s, Prairie Moon, Rising
They're a lot more organized and they have a lot Moon, A Room of One’s Own, Southern Sisters,
more money than we do — and they aren't done Thirtyfirst Street Bookstore as well as Women and
yet.” Tamara’s comments on the boycott: “It’s been Children First and Illinois NOW in Champaign.
January 1994 Volume 16 Number 5
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:18 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsBookstores that still have books they've collected be permitted to read aloud from this subversive
may either ship books directly to Nona (address work at Toronto’s International Festival of Authors,
below) or forward them to Chicago for transport. with all that might mean for public morals, nation-
BWEP also plans to launch a Phase Two Book al security, etc. Why was not Mr. Leavitt himself
Drive for “friends of Nona” to keep Nona’s library confiscated at the border to prevent this outrage?”
up to date. Under Phase Two, bookstores would The editorial then went on to describe the absur-
sign up to organize an event or pass the hat at other dity of having a parallel legal system for imported
events to collect money to send new books to Nona. books, “an extraordinary labyrinth of double stan-
(BWEP shot video footage for a mini-documentary dards within double standards...,” that large book-
on Nona and the Women’s Movement in Zagreb stores are “strangely exempt” from Customs scruti-
that would make a good centerpiece for an event — ny, that “book shops like Glad Day that cater to
but they’re still looking for someone to edit the tastes outside the mainstream — at least as defined
footage.) The stores on the list would rotate. Each by Canada Customs — can expect to find roughly
store's turn to send books would come up (depend- 75% of their shipments delayed, destroyed or other-
ing on how many stores decided to participate) once wise tampered with by Customs officials.”
every year or two. For more information, call or fax The fact that only imported books are being
Aimee Wielechowski at 1-312-907-9576 or write scrutinized for being “harmful” — and only those
BWEF, 4516 N. Ashland Ave 2W, Chicago IL 60640. destined for small or minority booksellers face this
To contact Nona directly, write to NONA treatment, the lack of due process and the issue of
Multiemedijski Zenski Centar, Draskoviceva 47, prior restraint are all addressed in the editorial. It
ZFagraebx, :C ro at0ia 1 41100-0.3 P8ho5ne:4 0111--3485411-7417--77646.4. O concludes:
“But the overarching issue is simply freedom of
speech. It is an offense to a free people that it
should be held prisoner within its borders, allowed
only such reading materials as its government jail-
ers will permit to enter. An offense, and an interna-
tional embarrassment.”
On October 12, Glad Day Bookshop received a * + A
preliminary detention notice from Canada Customs In October Canada Customs also detained a
for three boxes of books from Smith Mark number of copies of Marguerite Duras’ The Man
Publishers including 100 copies of David Leavitt's Sitting in the Corridor bound for the Trent University
A Place I've Never Been. Fifteen copies of Stephen Bookstore. It was scheduled to be used as a course
Beachy’s The Whistling Song had been detained on textbook and was released upon press coverage.
Octo b Oer n 8 O a ct t oth be e rF o r 1t 3 E r aie n C u as rt tom ics l e c h oec nk p o tin ht e. detention the SM ee pa tn ./w Oh ci tl .e , i sG sula ed o D f a y O n B o Oo uk rs h o Bp a’ cs k ss h —ip m 3e 5n 0t co of pies
appeared in The Globe and Mail. The following — have been detained and apparently seized en
morning the detained shipment arrived at Glad route to its distributor Doormouse Distribution Co.
Day in record time and intact. on Oct. 18. It was classified under Memorandum
The Globe and Mail editorial read, in part: D9-1-1 as “fisting” and “degradation” despite the
“Canada Customs is slipping. In September, the fact that no category for the former exists. Also, the
federal department was awarded the rare honour of K27 form indicates that one magazine was held,
a resolution of condemnation by International rather than the 350 copies shipped — which is
PEN...for its frequent habit of seizing imported taken to mean that Customs didn’t bother to
books and periodicals at the border and its system- inspect the shipment but rather seized it based on
atic harassment of the bookstores that sell them. But the title, as is their practice.
now we find that David Leavitt, the acclaimed Additional titles that have been detained since
American author whose book A Place I've Never July that have not previously been reported in FBN
Been is among the long list of the impounded, will include Behind Closed Doors by Robbi Sommers
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:18 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
(detained en route to Women’s Bookstop), Butch by Ivekovic, Vesna Kesic, Jelena Lovric, and Dubravka
Jay Rayn (detained then released en route to Little Ugresic, were called “witches” by the far-right
Sisters), City of Mazes and Other Tales of Obsession Croation press because of their opposition to war,
(detained en route to Bold Print), Daughters of their feminist opinions, and their access to foreign
Darkness: Lesbian Vampire Stories (detained en route media. The IPWWC did solidarity work, publicized
to This Ain't the Rosedale Library), Lesbian Culture: the case inside PEN and in the international press,
An Anthology (detained then released en route to and prepared a casebook on the struggle.
Woman to Womon Books, Outrage: Australian Gay Elaine Potiguara is a Brazilian Indian poet and
and Lesbian Short Story Anthology (detained en route advocate for the rights of indigenous peoples,
to L'Androgyne Bookstore and Borderline Books), founder of the women’s organization Grumin, and
Sister/Stranger: Lesbians Loving Across the Lines editor of its paper, Which exposed the environmen-
(detained en route to Glad Day, Woman to Womon, tal pollution and social degradation caused by local
and Bold Print), and Wanting Women: An Anthology industries in her tribal area. These retaliated with a
of Erotic Lesbian Poetry (detained en route to campaign branding her a thief and prostitute.
Vancouver Women’s Books. IPWWC helped Potiguara make contact with femi-
Information from The Globe and Mail and nist and human rights circles and nominated her
CensorStop News, (PO Box 888 Station F, Toronto for the Hellman/Hammett awards given by the
ONT, Canada M4Y 2N9). O Fund for Free Expression. When her phone was cut
off and her funding endangered, we organized
_ International PEN/Women international letters of support to protect her.
Taslima Nasrin is a Bangladeshi poet, novelist,
_ Writers’ Committee and journalist, author of a number of books criticiz-
ing Muslim fundamentalism and the oppression of
On November 9, 1991, the Assembly of women. Her most recent novel, Laija (The Shame)
International PEN voted to establish an describes the suffering of a Hindu family attacked
International PEN Women Writers’ Committee by Muslims following the December 1992 destruc-
(IPWWC) to enable women writers to know one tion of the Bahri mosque in Ayodhya, India.
another's work and act together to defend Though the book won critical acclaim, selling fifty
[women’s] human rights. The aim of the Committee thousand copies in six months, Muslim extremists
is to amplify the voices of women internationally considered it blasphemous, and in July the govern-
by encouraging translation, initiating cultural ment banned the book. The Council of Soldiers for
development projects, and resisting censorship. Islam has issued a call for Nasrin’s death and put a
IPWWC now has members in forty countries and price of $1250 on her head. Despite her peril, Nasrin
publishes a biannual newsletter Network/Le has been unable to get sustained or consistent
Réseau/La Red. police protection. IPWWC is organizing a campaign
The Committee's human rights work centers on calling on Bangladesh to protect Nasrin, prosecute
the question “Do the cultural factors that suppress those who have sought her death, lift the ban on
women’s voices add up to a historic pattern of gen- her book, and restore her passport, which was con-
der-based censorship?” Their answer is a firm fiscated last January.
“Yes!” Methods of silencing women cited range IPWWC is also forming a task force of writers
from illiteracy on one end of the spectrum to intimi- and researchers in Africa, South Asia, and the
dation and violence at the other. IPWWC seeks to Middle East to coordinate information on the
understand the ways women writers encounter impact of Islamic fundamentalism on women writ-
censorship and works to defend them, in consulta- ers and to generate ways to defend writers under
tion with the Writers in Prison Committee of attack. IPWWC also plans to gather materials on
International PEN. IPWWC cases include: Christian, Hindu and Jewish fundamentalism.
The Five Croation Witches: These five non- In the arena of cultural development, IPWWC
nationalist women writers, Slavenka Drakulic, Rada recognize that women writers are key fighters for
January 1994 10 Volume 16 Number 5
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:18 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
the emancipation of women in the developing Meredith Tax of PEN American Center is Chair
world. IPWWC seeks to amplify [women’s] voices of the IPWWC; Maria Arrillaga of Puerto Rican
and increase [women’s] opportunities to be heard. PEN is Secretary. Advisors include Ama Ata Aidoo
International aid programs that marginalize culture (Ghana), Paula Giddings and Grace Paley (U.S.),
and neglect the struggle over ideas are unlikely to Alicia Partnoy (Argentina), Ninotchka Rosca
bring lasting improvement to women; IPWWC (Philippines), and Monika van Paemel (Belgium).
hopes to encourage experts to integrate culture into International Pen Women Writers’ Committee,
their plans for development and democratization, 532 W. 111th St. #75, New York NY 10025. 212-866-
and support local female agents of change, includ- 4283; fax 212-932-0678.
ing women writers. IPWWC wishes to facilitate the
growth of regional cultural industries that empow-
er women, such as women’s presses; encouraging
translation; and draw attention to the achievements
of women writers, North and South.
IPWWC's first major cultural development pro-
ject was a Women’s Publishing Workshop that took
place at the Frankfurt Book Fair and brought twen- Women’s WORLD is a new U.S. nonprofit that
ty women writers and editors from Africa, Asia, the was inspired by, and grew out of the Women
Caribbean, Central Europe, Latin America, and the Writers’ Committee of Pen International (IPWWC).
Middle East to meet with their counterparts in IPWWC’s work and growth have strained the
Europe and North America. The objective was to resources of an organization run on volunteer work
increase the visibility of work from the developing alone. Having an independent nonprofit with its
world within international publishing, and to net- own financial base will enable smoother and quick-
work in order to strengthen regional publishing er response and will make it possible to expand the
industries. The Workshop was funded by work from individual human rights cases into an
UNESCO's World Decade for Cultural Development investigation of gender-based censorship. Funds
and German government agencies. will be administered by PEN American Center until
The IPWWC Travel Fellowship program origi- Women’s WORLD gets nonprofit status.
nated with a UNESCO travel grant to bring a As an independent Non-Governmental
woman writer from the South to the U.S. The Organization based in the U.S., Women’s WORLD
award is designed to draw attention to the work of will be able to help IPWWC respond to attacks on
distinguished women writers who are already the human rights of women writers in Africa, Asia,
known in their own country but have not yet won Latin America, the Middle East and Central
the recognition they deserve in the U.S. The first Europe. At the same time, it will be able to initiate
travel award went to Ama Ata Aidoo of Ghana. affirmative programs that go beyond the mandate
Dubravka Ugaresic of Croatia has been designated of PEN, to attack the root of these violations in sys-
for the second. IPWWC is currently seeking another temic gender bias, the leading cause of poverty in
source of funds for this program. One of the long the developing world. Women’s WORLD will
term goals of the program is to make U.S. culture encourage policy makers to identify, support and
more open to literature from the developing world. work through female agents of change, because nei-
Future programs under discussion include a ther democratization nor development can be real
Latin American Women Writers’ Workshop focus- without the full participation of women.
ing on literary themes, censorship, and self-censor- Among such agents of change are women writ-
ship, to be held in Mexico in 1994, and a publishing ers. In many places women writers are the only
module including discussion of technology transfer voice of millions of other women who cannot yet
from North to South, to be used at conferences read and write. Because women writers criticize
beginning with the 6th International Feminist Book both traditional and new forms of oppression, they
Fair in Australia in 1994. become the focus of many contradictions, often
Volume 16 Number 5 sii January 1994
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:18 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsbeing marginalized, sometimes banned, impris- development project that will mobilize the resources
oned, exiled or killed. They need and deserve inter- and advisors necessary to establish women-owned
national support. small presses in the developing world.
Women’s WORLD bases its strategy on mutual ° Voices of Women (VOW) is a reproductive
aid and networking between women writers, using rights project that will bring together writers,
the resources of the North to empower women else- activists, and community women to produce health
where. This approach is modeled on the strategy of and sex education literature that accurately repre-
successful Women in Development programs. The sents the experience and needs of the women
long-term goal is to give more international weight involved, in a context of scientific and human rights
to women’s voices and enable them to be heard on information.
both “women’s issues” and on issues of economic The founders of Women’s WORLD have been
development, national identity, and war and peace. working on the Women’s Committee of PEN
Women’s WORLD has four main program American Center since it began in 1986 and, in
areas, each emphasizing a different aspect of 1991, were instrumental in starting the Women’s
women’s human rights. The latter three are still at Writers”Committee of International Pen (IPWWC).
the research stage. Founders include Meredith Tax, initiator and Chair
e Human Rights for Women Writers addresses of IPWWC, Ninotchka Rosca, an activist in the
individual cases by advocacy, public education, democratic movement in the Philippines and a
networking to mobilize the resources of the founder of the Survivors’ Committee of Amnesty
women’s movement, quiet diplomacy, and finding International, and Paula Giddings, a prominent
means of support for women’s human rights spokeswoman for African-American women and
activists in developing countries. Treasurer of the Authors’ Guild. They are bringing
° Gender-Based Censorship is a program to together a board of advisors. For further informa-
investigate and address the silencing of half the tion on Women’s WORLD, contact Meredith Tax,
human race. 532 West 111th St. #75, New York NY 10025, 212-
° Alternative Models in Publishing (AMP) is a 866-4283; fax 212-932-0678. O
; _ Check all the boxes you can and mail to FBN, I am/We are: [H Owned and operated by !
ı PO Box 882554, San Francisco, CA 94188 E Reader/Bibliophile women :
! j s[] WNomaemn's e S tu d:i es [ TDea ch eLr i b[J r Caor-oiwanned anadn rdun bmy ewnom e n' '
ı : B u siAnessd Ndamre e Ds Wsr it er[ J [1] O wBneod oankd ospeeraltlede rby m ein !!
! [J Publisher Bookstores — We also stock: !
! City/State/Zip [J Periodical > EE : :
N', [P Jh[o nN gO t[h l GeCrr eaf nRtsw e oGrmaaanyl e m miineninstt' s e n ortnie-tfslicettsio n ! ':
' [J One Year - $65. Check enclosed. Bookstores, Publishers and [J Leftist/political !
! : Feminist D children :
: [H One Year - $70. Bill us. Ss — s your focus primary: [] New age/metaphysical !
: [D] + $9 for Canadian postage. [U Lesbian El-other '
: [D] + $19 for other international postage. [H Lesbian & Gay !
1 E12 i33 D Gay [J Back issues available — $6 !
: year. : [D Alternative/political each or $30/year. Check !
L o Sample copy - $6. [H General independent enclosed. j
January 1994
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:18 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Compiled by Carol Seajay details or the major publicity — some things were
not handled in ways that we have learned over the
I was lucky enough to be in Boston for the grand years work with any major author event.
debut program in New Words’ reading space in Nonetheless, we had a wonderful time.
November. The space itself is elegant and understat- “The film was incredibly moving and impor-
ed — and the event was spectacular: Alison Bechdel tant; Alice and Pratibha Parmar, the filmmaker and
and Diane DiMassa with slideshows about their co-author of the book Warrior Marks were brilliant
work and Mabel Maney with slides of her non-print in the discussion afterward. They were also very
laid back and charming at the signing. Please be
Nurse. Every bookstore celebration should be sure to read the acknowledgments and you'll see
blessed with so much laughter, vision, insight and one of the many ways that our particular communi-
politic. The readings for the rest of the month ty feels connected to Alice.
looked so good that I just wanted to stay: Cynthia “In November, we had our visit with the Kay
Enloe with her new book The Morning After: Sexual Hagan Hothead Express. She was wonderful! I
Politics at the End of the Cold War and Patricia Powell, wish I had her on tape about the importance of the
reading from her novel Me Dying Trial. Powell was a independent feminist bookstores!”
student of New Words’ former collective member a
Kate Rushin during Kate’s high school teaching TI
days. In addition to a great series to initiate the new
reading space, the program also felt like a celebra- Book-Woman (Austin) threw a big Madonna
tion of generations in feminist booking. Madness Madonna-thon to celebrate Book-Woman`
New Words has also extended their hours to 8 staffer Kay Turner’s new book I Dream of Madonna:
pm on weeknights, installed lighting for their exte- Women’s Dreams of the Goddess of Pop. Other Book-
rior sign (so they can be found during those Woman events included a 25% discount on all chil-
evening hours) and put in track lighting inside to dren's books over the Children’s Book Week week-
brighten the store. end and the Second Annual Virgin day to celebrate
Y the Feast of the Immaculate Conception, the Feast
of Our Lady of Guadalupe (both very big in Texas)
and the Feast of the Fabulous Female in All of Us
Linda Bryant writes, “In November, Charis (very big at Book-Woman) on December 12. The
(Atlanta) had another visit with Alice Walker, store was filled with “a holiday-of-our-own” spirit
though this time it was not in our store. The as well as festive crafts and goddess paraphernalia:
National Black Women’s Health Project, along with pocket alters, Virgin T-shirts, cards, women’s spiri-
Women Make Movies, sponsored (and benefited tuality books, jewelry, and other gifts for the
from) the local screening of Warrior Marks. We were Season. “Come for the cake and special Immaculate
involved in selling tickets and doing a mailing and moments throughout the day.”
otherwise promoting the event and then we sold
books and did the booksigning at the screening. HerBody, a bookstore specializing in women’s
“It was frustrating to be involved in something health books, that opened adjacent to a gynecolo-
so important, but not to be in charge of any of the gist's office in Beverly HIlls is opening two addi-
13
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:18 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Taking the Bookstore to the Book Festival
Forty thousand people — including 5,000 ele-
mentary school kids — participated in the First
Annual Rocky Mountain Book Festival.
The Book Garden decided to do the show in a
big way and set up a Book Garden-like booth to
give festival goers a good “sense” of the Book
Garden. Kasha Songer and crew rented a U-Haul,
bought nine new bookcases for the show, (spent 6
hours putting them together), and sold the book-
cases after the show (“Two went to a rep, two
were traded for an antique table for the store, two
went home as employee perks — it was fun!”)
“We definitely made our expenses,” Kasha
reported, “and came out way ahead if you count
all the people who are now familiar with the
Book Garden who had never come by before.
Here in Amendment 2-Land that counts for a lot!”
January 1994 14 Volume 16 Number 5
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:18 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
tional stores. The new stores will be at 8721 Beverly in the women’s building which also houses Crazy
Blvd., West Hollywood CA 90048 (310-659-7407) Ladies.
and 73-260 El Paseo Blvd. Suite 2C, Palm Desert CA
92260 (619-779-9005). AIl three of the stores are Alison Cunningham from Golden Thread (New
“small” but feature hundreds of titles addressing Haven) writes, “Business is picking up here (finally!)
women’s health issues. The official grand openings We had a great send-off party for ‘Hothead Paisan’
will be in January but both of the new stores are before she embarked on her world tour. Great fun
already open and selling books. with about 50 local fans turning out to wish her
well!... Despite the fact that we are next door to a
E women’s health clinic which is picketed every day
(joined by a screaming man who holds court for sev-
Crazy Ladies in Cincinnati sponsored a pre- eral hours every Thursday and a mass that is held on
election “No on 3 Volunteer Day. (3 was the anti- the sidewalk once a month...), we continue to subtly
gay rights proposition.) Despite the rain, over 100 place “choice” posters in the windows or, more radi-
energetic volunteers assembled No on 3 yard signs, cally, put the homicidal lesbian terrorist in the win-
distributed No on 3 leaflets, and wrote No on 3 dow with her bombs aimed at the the people who
postcards. The No on 3 campaign headquarters was harass women need to use the clinic!
flew in to help with the Bookfest.
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:18 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
January 1994 16 Volume 16 Number 5
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:18 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Mid-Atlantic feminist bookstores are planning a devoted to women and health. Thirtyfirst Street
regional conference in January. We’ll have the also does an annual holiday raffle — the prize is a
report next issue! basket full of books and audiotapes valued at over
Wednesday December 1 was Member $100. Raffle tickets are $1 each.
Appreciation Night at Amazon (Minneapolis).
Everyone was welcome to shop but members My Sisters’ Words (Syracuse) has also rearranged
received an additional 20% on all regular price sections in the store. There's now a Men’s section
books. Memberships cost $20 and give members a within Women’s Studies. Lesbian Non-fiction has
10% discount on books for a year. now called Lesbian and Gay Studies to accommo-
A Room of One's Own is putting its accounting date the kinds of books coming out now.
on Peachtree. They're excited about the program They are also buying and selling used books
and will report back later on how they like it. and have just begun taking debit cards (ATM
cards). “It’s cheaper for us than credit cards and
Word from Gloria Greenfield at the Vancouver eliminates the bounced check problem.”
Women’s Bookstore is that their bookstore is now
up on Book Manager, a Canadian bookstore inven- E
tory program. They've also put in new shelving.
The store is now a workers’ co-op and has begun Brigit Books (St. Petersburg), Lioness (Sacramento)
paying salaries. and Thirtyfirst Street all sponsored holiday crafts
Meristem (Nashville) has added “Member of fairs this year. Boadecia’s Books (Kensington CA —
at nh de F be um sinin ei ss st cB aroo esk .store Network” to their stationary j au ns dt Tn eo ar t h ro tf B iner k De ele cy em) bs ep ro .n s To hr ee yd a sP o t at de vr ey iS sh eo w
P a y a l o r t that
the tea pot is on every night in December — “come
Thirtyfirst Street launched two book drives this to Boadecia’s to chill out, warm out or wind down.
fall. The first was to send four boxes of feminist We will have the tea pot on each night in
books to Nona, the new women’s center in Zagreb December... Starting November 26.”
(see News). Two weeks later Thirtyfirst Street
helped kick off the Towson State Women’s Studies Amazon did a Holiday Gift-Giving Guide in
faculty book collection drive for women prisoners. place of their December newsletter. The regular
The occasion was the bookstore’s annual reception Staff Raves column featured books that staff mem-
for area Women’s Studies faculty and staff. By the bers would likely give for the holidays; the new
end of the day, a good start had been made toward music column was extended to a full page and
filling the shelves of the sparsely stocked prison included a new holiday music section, another sec-
library at Jessup. tion featured new videos, and two pages were
S Y given over to crafts and other sidelines — plus, of
course, a lengthy “hot off the press” feature.
Thirtyfirst, chronically suffering like many femi- Sales are all over the place as we go to press.
nist bookstores from being undercapitalized, has Some of the stores that saw slow sales during the
also just launched a $10,000 fundraising drive to early fall reported that sales were picking up.
help remedy that situation. Almost everyone, general bookstores and feminist
Thirtyfirst Street has spruced up with new paint bookstores alike, reported that holiday sales got off
on the storefront and new ceiling panels inside. to a very slow start with sales in some stores not
Two coats of paint are scheduled for the front picking up until December 9th or 10th. Women and
room. Other changes include a major rearrange- Children First reported that sales were very good
ment of stock, lots of new cards, expanded side- — not quite as good as last year just after the
lines. Books on women of color have been moved to Tribune ran a huge article about their neighborhood
the front room. One of the interior rooms is now that featured Women and Children First promi-
Volume 16 Number 5 17 January 1994
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:18 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
nently — but right up there with their best expecta- gift for a friend she’d been trying to get into the
tions. Pokey Anderson called from Inklings as we bookstore for some time. The store was temporarily
went to press to say that December 16th was their out of stock on the book she wanted “but would
third highest Thursday ever. By the time you read have it in again on Monday.” Judith paid, for the
this all the sales reports will be in. Give me a call book and made arrangements for her friend to pick
and tell me how it went for the season and for the it up at the store when the book arrived — and then
year as soon as you get your figures. gave the friend a card saying that the book was
waiting for her at the bookstore. Not only did the
E friend finally make it to the bookstore, she found
sosmee ovtheer brookas l sh e nteediedm — aends h.as b ee|n b acOk
Here’s an idea to plant in your best customers’
minds: When I was at OutWrite I heard Judith Katz
(Running Fiercely Toward a High Thin Sound)
describe a wonderful strategy for getting friends
and acquaintances into feminist bookstores. She
was in her local feminist bookstore one day to buy a
January 1994
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:18 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsANNOU
Now is the time for all good booksellers to come Stores that publish bibliographies on various
to the aid of their literature... Nominations for the topics may want to send copies to Feminist
6th Annual Lambda Literary Awards are due by Collections’ “Items of Note” column for announce-
Monday, February 7. This year’s categories are ments of their availability to the feminist library
Lesbian Fiction, Gay Men’s Fiction, Lesbian Studies community. Feminist Collections is published by the
(read that “non-fiction”), Gay Men’s Studies, office of the Women’s Studies Librarian for the
Lesbian & Gay Anthologies, Lesbian University of Wisconsin System. Send copies and
Biography/Autobiography, Gay Men’s Biography/ cost and/or particulars such as SASE to Linda
Autobiography, Lesbian Mystery, Gay Men’s Shult, Feminist Collections, Women’s Studies
Mystery, Lesbian and Gay Humor, Lesbian & Gay Librarian, 430 Memorial Library, 728 State St.,
Science Fiction /Fantasy, Gay and Lesbian Drama, Madison WI 53706.
OA
Spinifex Press (Australia) is now represented by
Michele Karlsberg Publicity Services in the U.S.
Promotion for Sheila Jeffreys’ The Lesbian Heresy,
Lesbian Poetry, Gay Men’s Poetry, Gay & Lesbian Susan Hawthorne’s The Falling Woman, Rose Zwi’s
Small Press Book Award and Children /Young Safe Houses, and Lariane Fonseca’s If Passion Were A
Adult. Nominations must have a 1993 copyright Flower is now underway. Both Sheila Jeffreys and
date and have been published in the United States. Susan Hawthorne will be visiting the U.S. in 1994.
If all goes according to plan, nomination ballots will Booksellers interested in obtaining in-store promo-
be included with this issue. Otherwise, write your tional materials, a recent catalog, or any other infor-
nominations on any piece of paper and send to mation should contact Michele at 585 N. Railroad
Lambda Literary Awards, 1625 Connecticut Ave. Ave., Penthouse, Staten Island NY 10304.
NW, Washington DC 20009. Or Fax your vote: 202- Phone/fax 718-351-9599.
462-7257. You may send in as many nomination
forms as you want.
n
The National Women’s Studies Association will
meet June 15-19, 1994 at Iowa State University in Doubleday is promoting the new Margaret
Ames. The theme will be Teaching, Theory and Atwood title and encouraging book groups with its
Action: Women Working in a Global Perspective. publication of The Book Group Companion to Margaret
Accommodations include air-conditioned rooms on Atwood’s The Robber Bride, the first in a series of
campus for $12.50. For information about exhibiting publications in a campaign to support booksellers’
contact Kris Anderson (515-294-3373) or Wendy involvement with reading groups. Margaret
Kolmar (201-408-5959) or write to NWSA ‘94, 105 Atwood’s novel was chosen to lead off the cam-
Landscape Architecture, Iowa State University, paign, according to Marly Rusoff, “because she
Ames, IA 50011.
Continued on page 34
Volume 16 Number 5 19 January 1994
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:18 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
TRAVEL BOOKS FOR WOMEN FROM TWO FEMINIST PRESSES
by Thalia Zepatos
e The bestselling women’ As J outrnrey a ovf Oenle's OwAn personal account
title of 1993 with 20,000 in print. of the physical and
° A Quality Paperback Book spiritual journey ofa ¥&
Club Selection for 1994. western woman reach- R#_
“Superlatives generally make ing mid-life in Nepal. R
us suspicious, but we must ` ...her reflections of this Ë
say: This is THE best women’s
travel resource we've seen, tiny, unspoiled land at g
ever... It’s authoritative; it's the top of the world are È
A 39
really does have it all.”
P a:m e;l a 7R7oeb i n| B'sr a nSdttu- d Nieesw, TNIEoAn L -Af iZcEtPi A T$O1S2 . 9—5N epwa pYeorr,k INSeBwNsd a y0-934971-35-8;
York Daily News (co-author Hardcover: 0-933377-21-5 $24.95 | W A s $22.95 cloth, ISBN 0-934971-36-6.
Are You Two...Together?) Trade paper: 0-933377-20-7 $14.95 | Bages, DWP
NEW!!! Available in May IN CHINA WITH HARPO
ADVENTURES IN GOOD COMPANY AND KARL
The Complete GuËide to WAomenn’s To ur s aindn Outsdooir g Triphs | tby f Sibuyl Jlam es and
by Thalia Zepatos witty meditation on
More than 85 companies world-wide are profiled. Travel the collision of the “2 in
programs tailored to women and children, lesbians, | Qae
physically challenged women, large women, and older | modern world with NULA
women are noted. Chapters on bicycling, canoeing, this ancient land. Harpo
horseback riding, sailing, rock climb ironseg t,h at kis a cyoloarfkuling P ; and
trekking, etc., encourage the reader to be adventurous and d:richly. detailed 2 Karl
help her to choose a trip wisely. Leadership development and richiy detailed. >
programs, cultural exchange opportunities, meditation — Bloomsbury Review RAE
and educational tours are also highlighted. Issues Sharp whimsical.
particular to group travel (insurance, safety, medical —f Kirkus
concerns, unrealistic expectations, etc.) a r He a f ru dll cy o vex ep rl :o r e 0d -. 933377-28- `2 N $on2-4f.i9ct5io n $, 1 178.29 5 p a gcelso t$h9.,9 5 IpSaBpNer , 0IS-B9N3 4 09-97314-91716--115-3
Trade paper: 0-933377-27-4 $14.95
d Z2 The Eighth Mountain Pres CALYX $ VSS
saitabie tom CONSORTIUM 9em sith
January 1994 20 Volume 16 Number 5
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:18 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Welcome to FBN’s Women & Travel Issue!
Many thanks to all who contributed the ideas and
articles that turned the issue into a reality.
We were intrigued, as we began this project, to
discover the range of feminist bookstores’ respons-
es to the idea of a travel section. New Words pro-
vided us with a travel section bestseller list and
many good ideas. Thirtyfirst Street offers a good University Presses
look at the importance and ramifications of having ° Travel bestsellers
a travel section — and of getting out of the book- ° Gay Lit and From the Small Presses also fea-
store and into the wilderness. Many stores sell the ture travel titles.
lesbian travel guides but don’t have a special sec- Most of the books featured in this issue are con-
tion for women’s travel and adventure books. temporary travel books. We made a decision not to
The consensus among the booksellers who have pursue historic travel literature this time out. Much
travel sections is that creating a travel section creates of the historic travel literature promotes an intense
(or discovers) a market. Stay-at-homes like reading “us” versus “them” mystique — Africa, for exam-
travel adventure as much (or more) than women ple, is presented as the extreme Other, the “dark
who travel. Travel writing is a growing genre — and continent,” enigmatic and wild and is, in practice if
travel books are affordable when long trips are not. not intent, colonialist literature. Unfortunately, too
Regardless of reason, women’s travel books are much of what's currently being sold as travel litera-
selling. Travel guides for women suddenly interest ture follows the same trends (including the silenc-
U.S. publishers. Virago’s travel guides for women ing and romanticization of Native peoples). But a
are being re-written for American readers and are great deal of the historic travel literature is also by
being published in the States by Ulysses and Book women who daringly broke through the conven-
Passage. The Feminist Press will be releasing the tions of their times and heroicly explored universes
fi 1rst 9 tr 9ans 4lati .on s fr ;om Frauenoffensive’s series in generally forbidden to women. As always, the con-
tradictions are are challenging, exciting, and con-
Highlights of the issue include: sciousness-raising. How do we encourage our cus-
° Suggested titles for a Travel and Adventure tomers to read historic work with contemporary
Section consciousness?
e Women’s adventure and travel books Happy reading!
• Wilderness trips, writing and women’s culture —- DLM and CS O
Volume 16 Number 5 21 January 1994
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:18 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
MORE WOMEN'S BOOKS AND
PUBLISHERS THAN ANYWHERE. | N B ©, ©), N
INBOOK , THE SALES DIVISION OF
INLAND BOOK COMPANY, NOW
DISTRIBUTES, SPINIFEX PRESS, PRESS
GANG PUBLISHERS, CASSELL
PUBLISHING, COMMON COURAGE
PRESS AND BISHOP BOOKS, AS WELL
AS GYNERGY BOOKS/RAGWEED PRESS,
SCARLET PRESS, DALKEY ARCHIVE
PRESS, ECW PRESS, MILLIVRES BOOKS,
LITERARY PRESS GROUP, ALYSON, BAY,
CLEIS, CURBSTONE, FIREBRAND, GMP,
GREEN PRINT, INTERNATIONAL BOOKS,
NEW SOCIETY, NEW VICTORIA, SECOND AVAVA v AVA B N
STORY, SPINSTERS INK, GANG OF SEVEN, S © | R À z
TALISMAN HOUSE, MARION BOYARS,
TALONBOOKS, SOUTH END, STEER-
FORTH, JON CARPENTER, AND MORE.
ORDERS 1-800-243-0138 FAX 1-800-334-3892 ELECTRONIC ORDERS 1-800-453-0077
January 1994 22 Volume 16 Number 5
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:18 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
TRAVEL
WOMEN
WGP Continues Gaia's Tradition Women’s Bars, Women’s Fitness/Defense Studios,
Women’s Health & Counseling Centers, Doctors,
By Zoé Lawyers, etc., etc. And to quote Janice Perry, come-
Women Going Places... to travel or not to travel... dienne extraordinaire: “This guide is required read-
but what was the question? It all began nearly ing for any woman going anywhere... who else
twenty odd years ago, really, with a wonderfully
eccentric visionary named Sandy Horn who started
GAIA’s Guide, opening doors to women’s ventures
across America and later, the world. The first ever
guide for women seeking the company of... other gaiug places
women. How long ago it seems, or does it? Then
again all good things must come to an end, or must 1993/94
they? GAIA retired in 1991/92, saying “Th-th-th-th-
that’s all folks...” But was it? Yes and no.
To quote Sally Miller Gearhart, Women Going
Places: The Complete Guide to International Travel is
“the undisputed sequel to Sandy Horn’s GAIA’s
Guide, this book carries on the spirit of our ever
expanding horizons. If we are to develop the
I un st e er nn va it si io on na l ( TN he et w Gor lok b a lo f W W ano dm ere gn r ot uh na dt ? ) s o t h m ena n ty h isof sX KA tWo a minetner’sn aCtioomnapli t eT r Gavuaiidle
book is a ‘must’ for the suitcase of every woman-
loving-woman.” Women Going Places has over 700 anticipates my needs before I do?” Hats off to
pages of entries: Women’s Enterprises, Women’s Sandy Horn. But, the spirit continues. The 2nd
Festivals, Women Tour Operators, Women’s Hotels Edition of Women Going Places is due out Spring of
and B&Bs, Women’s Centers, Women’s Bookstores, 1994. Get there in style.
Volume 16 Number 5 23 January 1994
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:18 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Zoé is the publisher and editor of Women Going vacation options which are now available. And
Places. She is the compelling force behind the success of these days, a women’s bed and breakfast might be
this “Complete Guide to International Travel.” Women noteworthy because of its gourmet breakfast, or its
Going Places, 141 Praed Street, London W2 1RL, UK. lovely decor, but no longer simply because it,exists.
Distributed in the U.S. and Canada by Inland. I am detail-oriented, a good quality for a keeper
—DIM O of lists, and I've had to become more so, as the vol-
ume of detail we handle has increased each year.
From the start, we have operated under one
12 Years Publishing of Lesbian Guide absolute rule: No matter how successful we
become, we will keep the information accurate and
By Marianne Ferrari, publisher current with the same zeal we demonstrated in our
Feminist life and lesbian life have come a long very first edition.
way since we started publishing the Places of Interest Three of the four travel guides we publish are of
to Women travel guide in 1981. At that time, all that interest to women. Ferrari's Places For Women (0origi-
existed was the beginnings of a network of nally entitled Places of Interest to Women) is the com-
women’s bookstores, a few women’s festivals, and prehensive women’s guide I've been discussing
a few women’s bars. |P EN a9 above. In addition to being a trustworthy reference
for listings of bars, retail stores and organizations, it
is also a comprehensive source for information on
women’s tours, cruises, special events and outdoor
apa, 1993 = AEL WP t SCOmmodaliong a td av ie nn etu dr e 9 t 9r ip s p. a gLa es st , y e ia lr lu, st th re a tt eou dr s w se ic tt hio n p c hon o- tos and
FERRARF 9 describing available cruises, worldwide tours,
A WoC rtawS !d! OMEN c i rna en g tr,o ee ai wn tsog m, i ner n a ’f s r t e i mfn eg os, tt ei vs ak al ri si e,n a g sl ,, e s b as nc iau dnb / a mg ad yyi r v i i arn dog d , e o o th s h,o e r rws e r o i ptp tia n ic ogk n- s
for women travelers. The calendar at the end of the
section makes it possible to see what kinds of trips
are available on specific dates.
Inn Places, whose 1994 edition was just pub-
lished, provides detailed descriptions and factual
information about women’s, gay/lesbian and gay-
friendly inns, B&Bs and hotels worldwide, including
a special camping and RV section. This book also
includes a Special Women’s Index, where you can
find women’s accommodations in any city or area.
In 1993, Ferrari's Places of Interest completely
redefined the gay and lesbian guide format. We
contacted the gay and lesbian press around the
Now, we live in a well-upholstered world, world and asked each to contribute feature articles
which not only has numerous women’s bookstores about gay and lesbian life in its area. Geographically
and nightclubs, but a panoply of local organiza- placed throughout the listings are 73 articles cover-
tions. Our roster of women’s festivals worldwide ing lesbian and gay life in places as far-flung as
now numbers 28, and is still growing. South Africa, Finland and Ireland, and as near as St.
In fact, a woman can now choose whether to go Louis, New York and Los Angeles. Never before
on an all-women’s Caribbean cruise, a safari in have so many voices been combined in one place to
Africa, or a writing retreat in New Mexico. These enlighten a lesbian or gay traveler about potential
are only some of the truly incredible diversity of destinations.
January 1994 24 Volume 16 Number 5
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:18 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
A special edition, Australia for Women, is in the
works and should be available in good time for the
International Feminist Book Fair in Australia. It will
be published in Australia by Spinifex and it’s
unclear as we go to press if Spinifex or The
or men’s guides as a reference for the road. Feminist Press will have U.S. rights. Word is that an
edition on India is in the early stages, be published
inh aInvdiae b y t Khalie fo rU W.oSm.e n . e Tdhei tFeimoinnis.t P r—ess C wSill O
Virago’'s Guides for Women Travelers
“Cities, like dreams, are made of desires and fears”
— Italo Calvino
By Lennie Goodings
Virago/London
The big city. Behind its facades, around every
corner, in street cafes, lie surprise, excitement,
delight — and for women, potential harassment
and even danger. Cultural taboos and physical vul-
nerability have always made it more difficult for
women to travel on their own or with other
From Women” women. The traditional response to this problem
Going Places has been to recommend that women cocoon them-
selves in expensive, safe hotels and see the city on a
Frauvenoffensive’'s Feminist Travel guided tour — strictly by day.
Series Enter Virago Women’s Travel Guides, for women
traveling alone, for women traveling with their fami-
German feminist publisher Frauenoffensive has lies and for business women — in fact, for any woman
been publishing a series of feminist travel books since who travels with curiosity, interest and enthusiasm.
1988. Titles include Italy for Women, Greece for Women, As the publishers of intrepid 19th century
etc. and cover Denmark/Iceland/ Greenland, The women travelers such as Isabella Bird, Mary
U.K., Holland, South America, China, and Africa. Kingsley and Isabelle Eberhardt, we were instantly
Forthcoming titles include Australia for Women and receptive to a letter from one Ros Belford, who out-
India for Women. lined her idea to commission a series of women’s
The books differ from the Virago series in that guides to the major cities.
countries (or even larger areas), rather than cities Ros Belford, now the series editor, is the author
are the focus. The goal is to provide useful informa- of five Rough Guides and Holiday Which? books.
tion for women, including political and social histo- Aged 30 and a passionate traveler, who has been
ry and context, cultural information, walking tours traveling alone and with friends since she was 18,
of interest to women as well as local resources such she believes that “if women are armed with the
as women’s bookstores, lesbian bars, rape crisis right advice and information, they can go virtually
centers and understanding of and access to the vari- anywhere, and delve as deeply into a city as they
ous forms of the local feminist movement. want.” A series deal was struck with her agent
The good news for English-readers is that The Vivienne Schuster and off we went.
Feminist Press and Pandora Press will be bringing An initial cast around the Virago office of 20
out English language editions of these books begin- women revealed these guides to be much needed.
ning in 1995. All of us could quote holiday tales ranging from the
25
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:18 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
hilarious to the harrowing. More research revealed But the guides go beyond practical matters.
that existing travel books are general when it comes They provide a window on women’s lives in each
to information of particular relevance to women, country. As well as describing the attitudes to
and most perpetuate the myth that solo women women in that society — for it is only through
should beware the big city. understanding a woman’s “place” in each city that
women travelers can understand their own experi-
ences — these guide books also look at culture from
a woman's point of view. The more traditional his-
tory, the major art galleries, and contemporary life,
are all described, but with these guides the reader is
also able to “track” women’s lives past and present.
In the guide to Paris, the author shows how revolu-
tion and women’s sexuality are forever entwined in
From Women this sensuous city; the cult of the Virgin Mary is
Going Places. explored in the book on Rome.
The far more admirable Women Travel (Harrap Ros Belford, who oversees the series and wrote
Columbus) is excellent, but its scope is very broad, the book on Rome, and I have chosen the writers with
aiming to cover the world, and it consists of personal an eye to their ability to write well about city life and
accounts of travel. No one has done in-depth work art as well as their ability to travel well. Though
for women on the major cities. Everyone we bounced packed with information, anecdotes and history,
the idea off — the buyers and the marketing people these books are intended to be lively and accessible.
at Stanfords, other travel publishers, general and All will be illustrated with maps and line drawings.
feminist book shops, foreign publishers and friends Published in paperback, they're priced under £10.
— came back with a positive response. It was becom- The series design — stunning work from the Senate
ing clear that this was one of those big ideas. — centres on a woman's eye, each showing a detail
As the mother of a young child (with a highly from a painting of an eye which reflects that city.
developed radar system letting me know when we The series was launched with guide books to
are not wanted) I was especially delighted with the Rome, New York, Paris and Amsterdam — the most
intention to include special sections for children that popular cities visited by British travelers. This year
would list welcoming hotels and restaurants, places we continue the series with guides to London,
to go and things to do. The fact that business travel Amsterdam and San Francisco to be published in
for women is on the increase has not been properly March. Two additional titles are scheduled for 1995.
reflected in guides, so our guides will provide rele- We expect to have great fun, and a few bon voyages...
vant facts for those women too. The Random Century RDR Books has recently acquired U.S. rights to the
European representatives, who carry our list, are only Virago woman's travel guides, effective spring 1994 with
the first women to warm to this innovation. the release of guides to San Francisco, Amsterdam and
Specific information is the key. These guides London. The Virago travel guides were formerly pub-
take women through the streets, public transport lished by Ulysses Press in the U.S. but are now part of
systems, and the maze of local customs and rules. RDR’s imprint, Book Passage Press, a joint venture
They recommend hotels and describe the neigh- between RDR Books and The Book Passage (Bookstore)
bourhoods in which they're located, and suggest in Corte Madera, California. —DIM O
restaurants and bars where women alone or with
another woman will feel welcome and comfortable.
They warn readers of the local dress code, and
enlighten them on the local code for amour. Should
you be invited to see Florence by night from the
Piazzale Michelangelo, for example, you'll know
what you're in for...
January 1994 26 Volume 16 Number 5
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:18 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsBy Dawn L. Martin Out & About: Essential Information for the
Gay Traveler caught my eye as a good, solid and,
Travel magazines are certainly a helpful resource for most importantly, honest magazine with a lot of
anyone thinking about going anywhere. They enhance a information and no distracting photos of happy
travel section or spice up a magazine rack. The following westerners taking snapshots of a native women
‘zines have particularly feminist, lesbian and/or gay squatting by the river. Out & About is not afraid of
slants. Some are available from distributors, others direct
from the publisher only.
SHE Travels: A Magazine Dedicated to
Women and Travel has just published its introduc-
tory issue Which focuses on women’s travel writ-
ing. SHE Travels’ goal is to “inspire women to controversy. The cover story of the issue I read was
challenge conventional definitions of travel and about Palm Springs, but the editor's letter acknowl-
share their insights with other women.” The `zine is edges his “mixed feelings about Palm Springs as a
rather short, so far — 18 pages, but provides a cover story.” He goes on to say that he “doesn’t find
wealth of information leaning more on the philo- Palm Springs a compelling destination.”
sophical side of women’s travel, than the practical. Nevertheless, the traveler is given guest houses rat-
This first issue included an in-depth discussion on ings in great detail, an interesting article on sex and
the benefits of owning a Moss Outland 4-Season travel entitled “Playing Safe When You Meet a
Tent, a history of women and travel, a review of Stranger,” information on what gay publications
you should pick up in the Palm Springs area. An
article about the Colorado Boycott did more than
encourage people to boycott — it listed a number of
useful and affirmative things travelers and stay-at-
homes could do to fight Amendment Two. There’s
also a gay and lesbian travel calendar that is pretty
Wayward Women: A Guide to Women Travelers by international and includes a variety of trips for
Jane Robinson (Oxford University Press), and a women. This particular issue of Out & About, how-
recipe for Party Beef Brisket. ISSN 1195-6119. SHE ever, seemed to have more information for gay men.
Travels, Box 6142, Whitehorse Yukon CANADA Both the editor and the publisher are men, though
Y1A 5L7. there are a couple of women on the production staff.
27
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:18 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
ISSN 1066-7776. Out & About, 542 Chapel Street,
New Haven CA 06511. Distributed by Inland.
Our World: International Gay & Lesbian
Travel is a glossy ‘zine that provides an abundance
of information, well worth the $4.95 that customers
will pay. In the issue I looked at, there was a won-
derful article about Florida that included informa-
tion about several lesbian/gay friendly and pre-
dominately gay resorts; Florida is a huge state, but
Our World manages to cover a wide area from Key
West to Tampa, from Miami to Daytona Beach, and
most everywhere in between. There’s also a lovely
article entitled “Farenheit: Where the Girls Are”
that gives a pretty complete guide to finding
women’s guest houses, bars/dance clubs, restau-
rants, publications and other entertainment. This
was the kind of information I needed at the last
ABA! Good information is given about other desti-
COMPLETELY UPDATED » NEW EVENTS CALENDAR nations, as well. The ‘zine also offers a Women’s
Expanded section for women's Festivals & Tours Travel Hotline for destinations like the Caribbean,
Malaysia, India and Egypt, that gives brief descrip-
tions of women-only trips. ISSN 1044-6699. Our
World, 1044 North Nova Road, Suite 251, Daytona
Beach FL 32117. Distributed by Inland.
Wander Women is a travel and adventure net-
working organization for women over 40. They
publish a quarterly newsletter called Journal ‘n
Footnotes, an informational source for a myriad of
travel aspects. The newsletter also provides a forum
for women to share their travel experiences. The
twelve-page journal seeks to inspire women to pur-
sue new adventures and travel experiences.
Membership in the organization is $29 per year and
entitles women to receive the membership directo-
ry, the newsletter, many travel and adventure dis-
counts and opportunities to meet other traveling
women. For a sample copy, send $1 to cover
postage and handling to Wander Women, 136 N.
Grand Ave., #237, West Covina CA 91791.
Graphics by Diane DiMassa. O
January 1994 28 Volume 16 Number 5
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:18 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsWOMEN
By Barb Wieser suburban mom out for her first weekend trip away
Amazon Bookstore from the husband. I grew to love all of these
women while putting together the anthology.
There aren't a lot of wilderness adventure books $14.95 pb, 1-878067-22-2, Seal.
written by women about women, but the few that Down the Wild River North by Constance
are out there are worth stocking. Seal Press has Helmericks is a reissue of a book first published in
published several good books in their outdoor 1965, shortened from the original 500 pages to a
women series. I especially recommend two of the more readable 300. Down the Wild River North is
books that they picked up from the now defunct the first-hand account of a single mother who takes
Bergamot Books — but I'm a bit prejudiced being her two teenaged daughters on a two-summer
the former publisher of Bergamot Books and co-edi- 3000-mile canoe trip through the Canadian Arctic.
tor of one of the titles. $12.95 pb, 1-878067-28-1, Seal.
Uncommon Waters: Women Write About
Fishing edited by Holly Norris. According to pub-
lisher Barbara Wilson, this book is one of Seal’s best
selling titles in the series. And no wonder—where
else can you read about women and fishing in the
same book? There are famous writers included —
Margaret Atwood, Audre Lorde, Linda Hogan —
and not-sò-famous. “A wonderful literary answer
to why women have gone and will always go fish-
ing.” $14.95 pb, 1-878067-10-9, Seal.
Leading Out: Women Climbers Reaching for
the Top edited by Rachel da Silva is another one-of-
Rivers Running Free: Stories of Adventurous a-kind collection from Seal. The only other book
Women edited by Judith Niemi and Barbara Wieser about the history of women climbing that I know
is a one-of-a-kind collection of mostly canoe stories about is written by a man — really! I know this
from 1900 to the present. You'll find all sorts of book was a long time in the making, and the result
women in this book, from the Arctic explorer to the is worth the wait — a wide-ranging anthology that
29
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:18 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
covers everything from writings by climbing fore- woman to reach the summit of Mt. Everest; but
mothers to modern-day scalers of the world’s high- what really caught my eye about the book is that it
est peak. And much of the writing is of high quali- is also the storyof her leaving an abusive marriage.
ty, a frequent shortcoming of anthologies. I particu- I'm always a little leery of climbing books — the
larly liked Maureen O'Neill's piece, “Queen of All conquering mentality jars my wilderness sensibili-
She Surveys,” written about her long-time climbing ties — but despite the jacket cover claiming just
companion who died in a fall two years ago. $16.95, that, so far Beyond the Limits has been a thought-
1-878067-20-6, Seal. ful and absorbing story of a woman infused with a
One of my current favorites in the passion for climbing who’s trying to find herself
women adventure genre is Polar along the way. I'm distressed, though, by her lack
Dream: The Heroic Saga of the of attention and sensitivity to the Nepali people
First Solo Journey by a Woman and culture she encountered along the way. $21.95
and Her Dog to the Pole by Helen c], 0-316-03468-1, Little Brown.
Thayer. This book is not particularly Of course, the all-time classic women’s climbing
well-written — it’s of the I-did-this and book is Annapurna: A Woman's Place by Arlene
then-I-did-that school of adventure writing — but Blum. First published in 1980, this book thankfully
what a story! Polar Dream is what you can recom- continues to remain in print. It vividly tells the
mend to a customer who wants a gift for someone story of the 1978 American Women’s Himalayan
turning 50 who thinks her life is over. Helen Expedition, an expedition in which two of the
Thayer, at the age of 53, skied 300 miles to the mag- women died. I read this book many years ago, but I
netic North Pole, alone, pulling a 200-pound sled, don’t think I'll ever forget the scenes on the high
battling storms, 40 degrees below zero, polar bears, slopes of Annapurna. $16 pb, 0-87156-806-3, Sierra
and her own self-discipline. Not a laid back kind of Club Books.
gal. $22 cl, 671-79386-1, Simon & Schuster. None of the mass market publish-
Another book on that same topic (inspiring ers have had much interest in
older women) that is well-written and funny is women adventure books, but Dell
Shooting the Boh: A Woman’s Voyage Down the has decided to be adventurous
Wildest River in Borneo by Tracy Johnston. This is themselves and publish Arctic
the tale of journalist Johnston’s rafting trip on a pre- Daughter: A Wilderness Journey
viously unrafted river in central Borneo. The trip by Jean Aspen. Aspen is one of the
organizers had assumed that they could hire local teenaged daughters in Down the Wild River North —
people for guides — only to find that the people but now an adult off on her own adventures, this
who lived along the river refused to navigate it time with a husband in tow. They paddle up a river
under any circumstances and thought the entire in Alaska intending to build a cabin and “live off
idea was insane and would lead to a watery death. the land.” They barely survive, but it makes for an
Obviously the crew did make it out since Johnston absorbing story along with Aspen’s appreciation
survived to tell the story, but it was fle “trip from for the beauty of the northern wilderness. $5.99 pb,
hell,” complete with swarming bees, unrunnable 0-440-212291, Dell.
rapids, flood waters that rise 20 feet in four hours,
and the author's first hot flash there in the heat of And just off the press:
the rain forest. But through it all she keeps her sense The Violet Shyness of Their Eyes: Notes from
of humor — at least in the telling of the tale — and Nepal by Barbara J. Scot. No, this isn’t another
that’s what makes this book so enjoyable. $11 pb, trekking book about Nepal. Instead it is the experi-
679-74010-4, Vintage. ence of an American woman as a volunteer teacher
A book I'm just starting to read that looks inter- in Nepal and what she learns about herself and “her
esting is Beyond the Limits: A Woman’s Triumph county” in the process. A beautifully written memoir
on Everest by Stacy Allison with Peter Carlin. by a woman who understands the gift of living in
Beyond the Limits is the story of the first American another culture. $12.95 pb, 0- 934971-35-8. Calyx. O
30
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:18 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsMaking Journeys
By Jennie Boyd Bull quest” travel books by women. Some of these are
31st Street Bookstore/ Baltimore MD listed here, by category. If you want to make infor-
mation about groups like Her Wild Song available
As a bookstore manager, life is sedentary, with
major outdoor time limited to Mondays off. So, in
September 1993 I went on a trip with Her Wild
Song, Wilderness Trips for Women. Fourteen of us
women spent a week backpacking along the
Appalachian Trail through the 100-mile wilderness
in Maine, ending at the top of Mt. Katahdin. The
beauty, silence and majesty of the wilderness and
the warmth, light and gentleness of the women
combined with my own internal goals and joys to
create an unforgettable experience that gave me a
renewed self-confidence and trust.in my body and
my abilities. So, it is with excitement that I share
these resources about women outdoors, wilderness
trips and adventure travels for women.
Several years ago, 31st Street Bookstore created
an “ecofeminism” section, with theory, memoirs
and fiction about women and nature. Within the From Women Going Places
past year it has expanded to include a Women in your store, consult Ferrari's Places of Interest to
Outdoors section focusing of women’s wilderness Women, “Tour Operators” and “Outdoor Adventures”
travel and adventure books, including classic, cur- sections. Woodswomen News, a free quarterly tabloid
rent resources, and a growing genre of “spiritual published by one of the larger groups, also includes
31
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:18 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
resources other than their own trips. Write Street's board is located near the women outdoors
Woodswomen, 25 West Diamond Lake Rd., books and also includes information on women’s
Minneapolis MN 55419 or call 612-822-3809. music festivals (another kind of outdoors!). We also
Sojourner, Boston’s excellent newspaper, has a large | have a resource notebook with travel brochures and
“Travel and Adventure” advertising section. The | bed and breakfast information.
groups listed are all happy to send their materials So... stock the books, post the brochures, help
for posting on your travel bulletin board. 31st | the customers with travel plans, and maybe some-
January 1994 32 Volume 16 Number 5
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:18 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsday soon you too will get away from your desk to a My Journey to Lhasa, Alexandra David-Neel.
wilderness journey — and even get to write about it. New edition. $14, 0-80705903-X, Beacon Press.
Resources $16, A 0n -8n 7a 1p 5u 6r 8n 0a 6: - 3A , SW ieo rm raa n C’s l u bP l a Bce o, o k A s.rlene Blum.
The Outdoor Woman: A Handbook to Women Climbing: 200 Years of Achievement,
Adventure, Patricia Hubbard and Stan Weiss. Bill Birkett and Bill Peascod. Biographies of 13
Comprehensive introduction for women, describ- women climbers and stats. $14.95, 0-87386240-x,
ing a wide range of activities. $14.95, 0-94236136-9, The Mountaineers, Seattle WA.
Mastermedia Books. Passionate Quests: Five Modern Women
Ferrari’s Places of Interest for Women. $12, 0- Travelers, Sonia Melchett. Derula Murphy, bicy-
94258644-1. clist; Monica Kristensen, Arctic trekker; Clare
A Journey of One’s Own: Uncommon Advice Francis, ocean sailing; Christina Dodwell, horse-
for the Independent Woman Traveler, Thalia back; and Elaine Brook, mountain climbing. $13.95,
Zapatos. Includes a listing of Adventure Travel 0-57112946-3, Faber and Faber.
organizations and other resources. $14.95, 0- Maiden Voyages: Writings of Women
93337720-7, Eighth Mountain. Travelers, Mary Morris, ed. Over 50 women, both
Going Off the Beaten Path: Untraditional past and contemporary, including many well
Travel Guide to the U.S., Mary Dymond Davis. known authors and adventurers. A wonderful
$15.95, 1-8796001-2, Noble Press. resource! $14, 0-67974030-9, Vintage.
Eco Vacations: Enjoy Yourself and Save the Beyond Black Bear Lake ($8.95, 0-39330539-2,
Earth, Evelyn Kaye. A very thorough guide. $19.95, WW Norton), Woodswoman ($10.95, 0-14015334-9,
0-962623111-3, Blue Penguin. Penguin) and Mama Poc ($10.95, 0-39330800-6,
Bike Tripping, Tom Cuthbertson. “The book Norton) all by Anne LaBastille, legendary ecologist.
about how to have good trips on a bike.” $7.95, 0-
89815123-6, Ten Speed Press. Current Writing
Shooting the Boh: A Woman’s Voyage Down
the Wildest River in Borneo, Tracy Johnston. $11,
0-679-74010-4, Vintage.
Land Circle: Writings Collected From the
Land, Linda Hasselstrom. Essays and poetry from a
South Dakota rancher and environmentalist. $12.95,
Classics 1-55591142-, Fulcrum.
Seal Press’ Women Outdoors series is in a Living By Water: Essays on Life, Land and
league all its own. They have reprinted several clas- Spirit, Brenda Peterson. Essays by an environmen-
sics and published anthologies of women and talist and feminist. $9.95, 0- 88240400-8, Alaska
sports never before available (see article elsewhere). Northwest.
He lD mow ern i ct kh se . W $i 1ld 2 . 9R 5iv . e r > North, Constance Solace of Open Spaces ($9 pb, 014-008-1135,
Viking). Islands, the Universe, Home ($11 pb, 014-
The Curve of Time, M. Wylie Blanchet. $12.95. 010-9072, Viking).
Rivers Running Free: Stories of Aventurous Arctic Heart: Poem Cycle, Gretel Ehrlich.
Women, Judith Niemi and Barbara Wieser, eds. $14.95. $12.95, 0-88496357-8, Capra Press.
Uncommon Waters: Women Write About Refuge, Terry Tempest Williams. $11, 0-
Fishing, Holly Morris, ed. $14.95. 67974024-4, Vintage.
Water's Edge: Women Who Push the Limits in Mother Earth: Through the Eyes of Women
Rowing, Kayaking and Canoeing, Linda Lewis. Photographers and Writers, Judith Boice, ed.
$14.95. There’s also a calendar and postcard set of this
Leading Out: Women Climbers Reaching for beautiful picture book. $20 pb, 0-87156566-0, Sierra
the Top, Rachel da Silva, ed. $16.95. Club Books.
33
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:18 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
The Fruitful Darkness: Reconnecting with the New Words’
Body of the Earth, Joan Halifax. A Buddhist deep Travel Section Bestsellers
ecologist writes of her spiritual journeys. $18 c|, 0-
06250369-3, Harper. 1. 1994 Places for Women, Ferrari, $12.00..
Living with the Land: Communities Restoring 2. Inn Places 93, Ferrari, $14.95.
the Earth, Christine Meyer and Faith Moosang. 3. 1993 Women Going Places, Women Going
Anthology from New Catalyst Bioregional Series. Places, $14.00.
$9.95, 1-55092-193-2,New Society Publishers. Also 4. 1993 Women’s Traveller, $10.00.
Circles of Strength: Community Alternatives to 5. 1993 Women’s Places of Interest, Ferrari,
Alienation, Helen Forsey, ed., from same series. $9.95. $10.00.
Amazon Dream, Roberta Allen. A woman’s 6. Journey of One’s Own, Eighth Mountain
journey into the Peruvian Amazon. $9.95 pb, 0- Press, $14.95.
87286270-4, City Lights. 7. Are You Two Together?, Random House,
$18.00.
8. Curve of Time, Seal Press, $12.95.
9. Annapurna, A Woman’s Place, Sierra Club
Books, $16.00.
10. Passionate Quests, Faber & Faber, $13.95.
Fiction Announcements ..…. Continued from page 19
Sisters of the Earth, Lorraine Anderson, ed. always has a subtext, an eye toward political and
Superb anthology of women’s writings about social issues. You can read the book for pure plea-
nature. $13, 0-67973382-5, Vintage. sure or for its more political meanings.”
With a Fly’s Eye, Whale’s Wit and Woman’s The readers’ guide includes a list of Atwood’s
Heart ($9.95, 0-93941625-5) and And a Deer's Ear, books, a brief biography, the text of her address to
Eagle’s Song and Bear's Grace ($9.95, 0-93941639-5) the ABA convention in May, a translation of the
both by Theresa Corrigan and Stephanie Hoppe, Brothers Grimm fable “the Robber Bridegroom,
eds. Cleis Press. Anthologies of Animals and related poems by Atwood, and a list of suggested
Women. discussion topics for any groups that don’t start
Beyond the Mountain, Elizabeth Arthur. A talking the minute two or women who've read the
woman's internal challenges as part of a women’s book walk into the same room...
mountain climbing expedition in Nepal. $11, 1- The guides are the brainchild of Doubleday
55597171-7, Graywolf Press. associate publisher Marly Rusoff, a former book-
The Fifth Sacred Thing, Starhawk. Well written seller, and this one, at least, is published as a Nan
futuristic novel with strong environmental, biore- Talese/Doubleday book. Booksellers can use co-op
gional, nonviolent and feminist perspective. $21.95, money to purchase the 32-page guides for $.50 each
0-553-09522-6, Bantam. and then may either give them away with book
Mundane’s World, Judy Grahn. In this classic, purchase or sell them at any price they choose.
now available directly from Judy, each of the natur- Minimum order is 10 copies. Plexiglas stands that
al C elemrenots iss sgivienn itsg ow n voPice. r Creeatisve! s $1.0. 95, O read “Recommended for Reading Groups” and dis-
play a discreet Doubleday logo are available for $7.
To order, contact your sales rep or Doubleday’s co-
What to do with all those travel fliers we get op advertising department. If you don’t have co-op
sent? I keep a large notebook with plastic pages and funds available, send a check along with your order
slip the fliers in. I date them so women know if the to The Robber Bride, Doubleday Marketing, 1540
information is current. Customers seem to appreci- Broadway, NY NY 10036. Include your account
ate this service. — Patty Callaghan | number and your Doubleday sales rep’s name if
Brigit Books O | you have one. O
January 1994 34 Volume 16 Number 5
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:18 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsPublishers’ Columns
By Ruth Grundle ence. I loved the book, needless to say, even in its
embryo stages.
I had always envisioned the Eighth Mountain But there was a hitch. She already had an agent
Press as being a feminist literary press and, indeed, and the proposal was circulating among New York
the first eleven titles I published were either poetry, publishers. I told her over a bad phone connection
fiction or essays. But at some point, as the press that I was very interested and to call me if she
blossomed and I quit my part-time job teaching sex didn’t make a deal with the big guys. I waited
discrimination at the law school to work full time at patiently for many months until the phone call
the press, I realized that Eighth Mountain had either
to become a nonprofit corporation or to add a line of
nonliterary nonfiction books to its list. I dêcided to
do the latter and pondered many possible subjects
— I wanted to publish books that were needed, that
didn’t already exist in any form and that interested
me, of course. I didn’t think of travel books.
Not long after that, I found out that Thalia
Zepatos — whom I had known here in Portland
through political circles for over a decade — was
w err .”it in I g d ia s c ob vo eo rk e d “ f to hr i s t whe h e i nn d Ie p te rn ad ce kn et d w ho em r a dn o wt nra v ie nl- Ind Uepnecnodmemnto n W Aomdvainc e T froavr e liehre
Mexico to see if she would be interested in collabo- THALIA ZEPATOS
rating on a book about women and politics that I
was considering publishing. She wasn’t, but she came. Two major publishers had wanted it — but
told me about her book-in-progress. When she sent one would take it only without the travel stories
me the proposal (which expertly analyzed the mar- and the other would take it only if it were for men
ket, the possibilities for promotion, and the surpris- as well as women. Neither of those was the book
ing gap that this book would fill) right away, I Thalia wanted to write, so A Journey of One's Own
could see that this was it. Travel books for women. became an Eighth Mountain book and the press
A wonderfully alluring topic, a huge market, and was launched on its nonficton specialty.
possibilities for publishing very feminist books that It’s been an unusually happy small press story
could “cross over” into a larger-than-feminist audi- from the beginning. Thalia and I love working
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:18 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
together. And right from the start, A Journey of noted. Over 300 trips are described. Among those
One's Own took off. It’s done every bit as well as we that intrigued me the most are: dog sledding under
had hoped, selling over 18,000 copies in its first the full moon in the Arctic, riding the range and
year. It will be coming out as a Quality Paperback bringing in the cattle on an all-women’s cattle
Book Club alternate this winter. A 25-city West ranch, and sailing to Tahiti.
But it is more than a complete listing of compa-
nies. Thalia has demystified, with her familiar
warmth, humor and expertise, the burgeoning
world of organized travel options for women.
Chapters on bicycling, canoeing, sailing, rock
$ climbing, kayaking, trekking, etc., encourage the
reader to be adventurous and help her to choose a
Coast reading tour was so successful that many trip wisely. Leadership development programs,
stores asked her to come back again, within months cultural exchange opportunities, meditation and
of the first reading. Standing-room-only crowds educational tours are also highlighted.
bought every book in the store at several readings Just as A Journey of One's Own is a unique addi-
(at Elliot Bay in Seattle, Thalia even sold her read- tion to the travel book genre, combining advice,
ing copy to a desperate woman who was leaving information, stories, resources, ideas and encour-
the next day for parts unknown). It’s been reviewed agement and emphasizing the “how” rather than
in most of the major newspapers, and recommend- the “where,” so is Adventures in Good Company a
ed by as diverse groups as American Express, unique addition to books about adventure trips. It,
Glamour, U.S. News and World Report and Travel too, offers a rich mix of women’s stories, informa-
Holiday. Pamela Robin Brandt (co-author of Are You tion, advice and encouragement. And as a feminist
Two...Together?), reviewing it for Newsday, declared book about group travel and adventure trips, it
it to be “The best women’s travel resource we've addresses women at every level of physical fitness
seen, ever.” Easy Going, an excellent travel book and physical daring. Information is given to help
store in the Bay Area, declared it to be their best-
selling book of the year.
From this auspicious beginning, Eighth
Mountain now plans to publish one travel title a
year. For 1994, it is another book by Thalia Zepatos, a
Adventures in Good Company: The Complete Guide to
Women’s Tours and Outdoor Trips — an indispens-
able resource for any woman who wants to travel women who are older, overweight, or out of condi-
within the structure and convenience of a profes- tion choose an activity that they can enjoy. The
sionally led group. This book is to group travel physical demands of each kind of trip are clearly
what A Journey of One's Own is to solo travel. explained and suggestions for getting in shape
Adventures in Good Company is, first of all, a ahead of time are also provided. Trips for women
resource guide: Thalia profiles more than 80 com- and their children, for the physically challenged, for
panies world-wide that offer trips for women, rang- girls, etc., are listed. Thalia doesn’t assume that you
ing from Lois Lane Expeditions to the WOMBATS have to be young, in perfect health and fitness, or
(Women’s Mountain Bike and Tea Society). She already skilled at the activity to enjoy an adventur-
provides full information on their philosophy, ous trip in the outdoors. She gives as much atten-
number of years in business, qualifications of group tion to the philosophy of the organization as to the
leaders, types of trips offered, and typical cost, in destination of the trip.
an easy-to-use format. Travel programs tailored to We all know that women prefer to learn new
lesbians, women and children, physically chal- outdoor skills, such as rock climbing, kayaking and
lenged women, large women and older women are sailing in the safe and supportive atmosphere of a
36
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:18 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsgroup of women. Any group experience — whether Adventures between now and May when they have
it’s trekking Nepal with Sherpani women or cultur- scheduled the segment to air.
al exchanges with Masaii women, or rafting down Which leads me to the second, but shorter part
the Colorado River through the Grand Canyon — is of this article: If you don’t yet have a special section
more intimate, more freeing, in an all-women’s or shelf in your store for travel books, I would urge
group. Yet, until now, there has not been any you to set one up right away. That’s where book
resource for a woman who wants to take such a buyers are accustomed to look for travel books.
trip, to find out about what's available. So we There are enough out there now (including travel
expect Adventures in Good Company to do very well. writing, guides, and sports books like Seal Press’
Already the Today Show is planning to do a story wonderful series) to make a good section, and more
on women’s travel that centers on Thalia and both are coming. Eighth Mountain, at least, will be sup-
her books. They will be filming some trips from Plying you with a very special one every year. O
By Holly Morris The glossy climbing magazines and numerous
books that are published each year about rock
In 1991 Seal Press launched an exciting new line climbing and mountaineering do not reflect the 40%
of books that celebrates the achievements and expe- of all climbers who are women. The omission of
riences of women athletes and adventurers. The women’s voice in climbing literature inspired
Women in Sports and the Outdoors Series now Leading Out: Women Climbers Reaching for the Top
includes six titles and several more projects are edited by Seal Press co-founder and climber Rachel
underway. We are proud to be expanding the da Silva. Leading Out show us that “daring” can
boundaries of the traditional outdoor and adven- apply to the women who bucked convention in the
ture travel genres, and helping to create new 1800s by stashing their skirts under the nearest
avenues for feminist writing. Made up of literary bush to make “manless” ascents in their bloomers,
anthologies, personal memoirs and fascinating pro- or daring can apply to today’s women “rock jocks”
who make heartpounding ascents up sheer moun-
tain walls.
Sporting nun and noblewoman Dame Juliana
Berners plucked her horse’s tail, tied the first known
fly fishing patterns and in 1421, penned the first
writing on the subject of sport fishing. But women’s
writing has been absent from the huge canon of fish-
ing literature that has developed in the five cen-
turies since Dame Juliana's achievement. Uncommon
Waters: Women Write About Fishing, edited by Holly
Morris, has helped to remedy that by validating and
celebrating the 18 million-plus women who fish
nationwide. This premier anthology captures the
meditative moments and bracing adventures of
files of great female athletes, this groundbreaking such noted writer/anglers as Tess Gallagher, Lorian
series testifies to the large numbers of women who Hemingway, Joan Wulff and Keri Hulme.
are enjoying and excelling in areas once considered Rivers Running Free: Canoeing Stories by
the domain of men. Adventurous Women, edited by Barbara Wieser of
37
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:18 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Amazon Bookstore and Judith Niemi, is a spirited The Seal Series also explores the worlds of high-
collection that spans a century of women’s canoeing level competition and team sports. In Water's Edge:
adventures. From tales of defiant ladies in long Women Who Push the Limits in Rowing, Kayaking and
skirts sneaking through the canals of upstate New Canoeing Linda Lewis profiles ten remarkable
women who broke down barriers in sports, such as
Ernestine Bayer, who founded the Philadelphia Girls
Rowing Club in 1938 and still rows today at age 84.
The CURRY This spring on baseball’s traditional Opening
Day, April 4, Seal is proud to publish When Women
Played Hardball by Susan Johnson (author of Staying
Power: Long Term Lesbian Relationships). This book
celebrates a wonderful but short-lived era in the
1940s and 1950s in which more than 500 women
participated in the All-American Girls Professional
Baseball League and proved beyond doubt that
women can play hardball. A girlhood fan of the
Rockford (Illinois) Peaches, the author returned to
her home town to meet and talk with her heroines.
Together they recall the sensational 1950 champi-
York in the 1920s, to contemporary back country onship series between the Peaches and the Fort
wilderness expeditions, the stories in Rivers Wayne (Indiana) Daisies. As “Tiby” Eisen, leadoff
Running Free record the influence canoeing has had batter and center fielder for the Daisies from 1944-
on women’s lives and the personal boundaries it 1952 says, “We played ball just like the big boys, we
inspires us to explore and push beyond.
In 1993 we published two outdoor adventure
books by mothers who, with their children,
answered the call of the wild. A long-time
Canadian classic, The Curve of Time by Muriel Wylie
Blanchet is a lyrically written account of a woman
who packed her five children onto a twenty-five-
foot boat and explored the coastal waters of British
Columbia in the 1920s and 1930s. With remarkably
high spirits, Wylie Blanchet saw her family through
exciting and sometimes perilous adventures and
instilled in her children a deep respect for the native
cultures of a region and a wonderment about the
nature world.
Bored with her suburban life in Arizona after broke up double plays with spikes held high and
having homesteaded in the Arctic years earlier, we stole bases in our skirts. We did whatever it
Connie Helmericks announced one day in 1965 to took to win.” Illustrated with photos and memora-
her two teenaged daughters “I think, at last, we are bilia, When Women Played Hardball celebrates a
going North.” Down the Wild River North is unique chapter in sports and women’s history.
Helmericks’ memoir of her family’s extraordinary Women are scaling rock, finessing trout, explor-
Arctic adventure in a 20-foot canoe. The threesome ing the Arctic by canoe and becoming Olympic cham-
navigated rapids and floating tree jams on the often pions. Their stories — our stories — can now be
flooded rivers, lived bugs, wind and mud, and rev- heard in these inspiring and entertaining new books.
eled in the wonderous landscape and the invigorat- Whether you're an armchair adventurer or a sports
ing freedoms that life in the wilderness offers. enthusiast, these books will expand your world. O
38
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:18 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Compiled by Mev Miller
(With inspiration from Kris Hoover)
When I discovered this issue of FBN would be
focusing on travel, my initial thought was “Well,
this will be a short column!!” After all, travel is gen-
erally not a big topic for university presses. Then ern Egypt ($18.95 pb, 0-674-95469-6, Harvard). Of
my mind went on a tangent, as it often wants to do. more current interest would be Writing Women’s
Sometimes when women travel, they try to read Worlds: Bedouin Stories by Lila Abu-Lughod.
something about the place where they are going. It’s These are contemporary stories that draw on anthro-
not enough to know where the most comfortable pological and feminist insights into the experience of
hotel is located or where to get a good breakfast. living in an Egyptian Bedouin community ($12 pb, 0-
Adventurous travelers want to know the history 520-083040, Nov., University of California). Women
and political background of the places to which they in Middle Eastern History edited by Nikki Keddie
are traveling. Keeping that in mind, these are some and Bath Baron may offer more than any traveler
new and current titles you may want to suggest to would want to know about Middle Eastern history
your customers to accompany their Places of Interest. and the shift in boundaries related to sex and gender
($16.95 pb, 0-300-05697-4, Yale).
À For those traveling to Minnesota (to visit me or
Amazon Bookstore??), there are two titles to keep
A number of titles focus on history and culture. in mind. Portage Lake: Memories of an Ojibwa
Mother Russia by Joanna Hubbs is now available in Childhood by Maude Kegg (edited and transcribed
paperback from Indiana University Press. Using his- by John Nichols) is not to be missed. This is a bilin-
torical, mythological, and literary materials, Hubbs gual (Ojibwa/Englļlish) collection of stories recorded
explores why the feminine myth of “Mother Russia” by Nichols between 1971-1986. They are lyrical sto-
is so strong in Russian culture ($12.95 pb, 0-253- ries and memories of building wigwams, boiling
20842- 4). For those traveling to Egypt, Women in maple sap into sugar, and harvesting turtles and
Ancient Egypt by Gay Robins may prove helpful in wild rice. They provide a fascinating view of tradi-
deciding where to visit. Through archaeological tional Anishinaabe life ($16.95 pb, 0-8166-2415-1,
information, Robins offers a look at women nearly University of Minnesota Press).
5,000 years ago in Egyptian culture thus providing a What This Awl Means: Feminist Archaeololgy
new perspective on the history and culture of mod- at a Wahpeton Dakota Village by Janet Spector is a
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:18 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Women Strike
for Peace
Traditional Motherhood and Radical
Politics in the 1960s
Amy Swerdlow
Revising the Word With a Foreword by Catharine R. Stimpson
and the World In the only historical account of this
ground-breaking movement, Swerdlow
Essays in Feminist Literary —a founding member of WSP—
Criticism records an important chapter in Ameri-
Edited by Vèvè A. can politics and women’s studies.
Clark, Ruth-Ellen B. *Paper $19.95 400 pages
Joeres, and Madelon Women in Culture and Society series
might Sprengnether Now in Paper
bett oe bre HT UEH RAE L TF HHA I AL CU MAR ERE RE O I AF H * IPa mper p$14 r.95 3 p04 p rages T Gh er no eu rg ath io ou nt Y Foo ru er
B A I C | o e s ver
Advances Sacrifice, Religion, and Paternity
Rape and Heterosexual Conflict Nancy Jay
in Ontario, 1880-1929 With a Foreword by Karen E. Fields
Mama Might be Karen Dubinsky Feminist study of relations between sac-
Better Off Dead This book expands the terms rifice, gender, and social organization.
iT n. h Ue r b aF na i Al mu er re ic a of Health Care o alf i t yc u r ar ne dn t s e d xe ub ala t e vs i o la eb no cu et bs yexu- P W 1a 9p i 9ne 3r n e Ar$ w1 3 o a. rf9 d 5 t h f2 oe2 r2 A Ep m xag e cr ee lis lc ea ni nl cl u e As. cademy of Religion’s
“L Ga ou esr i te o K tha ey e h ea rA t b or fa h ta odm ay’s o t mif v ef e ne r ti rn o ag p t e h a n e w oqh muis e et s no t .ir oi nca l o fp e r ws hpe yc- a* v a iC lalo bt leh edition
problem.. . Powerful... *Paper $14.95 256 pages
deeply searching.”—Victor
Cohn, The New Republic
Cloth $22.50 288 pages Marguerite
Yourcenar
Feminist Morality Inventing a Life
Transforming Culture, Josyane Savigneau
Society, and Politics Translated by Joan E. Howard
Virginia Held “A scrupulously accurate, MARGUERITE YOURCENAR
With a Foreword by never inflated account of
Catharine R. Stimpson Yourcenar.”—Edmund
*Paper $17.95 298 pages White, New York Times Book
sWeroimesen in Culture and Society Review
Cloth $25.00 576 pages illus.
January 1994 40 Volume 17 Number 1
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:18 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
pioneering work focusing on a 19th-century Eastern Lisa Bloom focuses on the conquest of the North
Dakota (Sioux) planting village near present-day Pole. She explores how explorations of the North
Minneapolis. Because it is a local author writing on Pole have shaped the U.S. ideologies of masculine
a local topic of interest, we at Amazon have sold identity, colonialism, and patriotism. This con-
quite a few copies of this title. But it is interesting tributes to the on-going exclusion of women and
and accessible for anyone curious about archaeolo- people of color from national discourse and identity
gy ($15.95 pb, 0-87351-278-2, Minnesota Historical ($14.95 pb, 0-8166-2093-8, University of Minnesota
Society). Press).
Finally, for something less heady and more fun,
turn to Cowgirls of the Rodeo: Pioneer
Professional Athletes by Mary Lou LeCompte.
If your traveler's are interested in political cli- Though it may not appeal to animal rights activists,
mates and international discourse, a few titles come it will appeal to those who are interested in women
immediately to mind. Cynthia Enloe’s new book, and sports, western and rodeo history ($22.50 cl, 0-
The Morning After: Sexual Politics at the End of 252-02029-4, University of Illinois).
the Cold War provides thought provoking observa-
tions for any woman interested in international By the way, keep an eye open for the new titles
travel. Enloe focuses on the inextricable connections from Feminist Press. They will be starting their own
between militarism, sexuality, gender roles, and line of travel guides for women in 1994. Can’t wait
domestic life in such countries as Russia, Estonia, El to see what they have in store!
Salvador and Japan ($15 pb, 0-520-08336-9,
University of California). Also, don’t forget Enloe’s
earlier book Bananas, Beaches, and Bases ($14 pb,
0-520-06985-4, University of California).
Similar to Enloe, J. Ann Tickner’s new book,
Gender in International Relations extends and
applies a variety of contemporary feminist perspec-
tives to the phenomenon of international relation-
ships ($14.50 pb, 0-231-07539-1, Columbia Inadvertently Omitted from the
University). For those traveling to Europe, The University Press Issue...
European Women’s Almanac by Paula Snyder may
be something to drag along. Although it is an inter-
esting sourcebook of information on women’s INDIANA UNIVERSITY PRESS
rights and status in Europe, the cloth edition is too In Menopause: A Midlife Passage edited by
heavy to pack and is best left at home ($35 cl, 0-231- Joan Callahan, essayists from various walks of life
08064-6, Columbia University). present female-defined perspectives on menopause
For those embarking on an Olivia cruise, it and the passage to new physical, social, and cultur-
might be a revelation to look at Working Miracles: al development. “An anything but trendy approach
Women’s Lives in the English-Speaking to a very trendy topic. Essays by scholarly women
Caribbean by Olive Senior. Senior is one of who have thought through society's position on
Jamaica's foremost writers and portrays the effects menopause and menopausal woman and don’t like
of plantation society on present-day men and what they see: older women denied positive por-
women ($14.95 pb, 0-253-328885-1, Indiana trayals in mainstream media, menopause treated by
University). the medical establishment as if it were a disease
But for those of us who can only afford to stay rather than a natural occurrence, and devaluation
home and dream of exciting travel adventures, two of older women.” — Booklist. “Smart, useful,
titles may offer us a kind of cheap thrill. Gender on funny.” — NPR. $12.95 pb, 0-253-20817-3; $29.95 cl,
Ice: American Ideologies of Polar Expeditions by -31312-.
Volume 17 Number 1 41 January 1994
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:18 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Urna ONI h
Mother With Child: Transformation Through ground and backstage roles, and places them in
Childbirth by Kathryn Allen Rabuzzi (The Sacred front, behind, and in the middle of the Southern
and the Feminine and Motherself) contends that movement that re-made America. ..….Itisan
childbearing has been denigrated, denied, and invaluable resource which helps set history
devalued. Transformation through Childbirth is straight.” — Julian Bond. $12.95 pb, 0-253-20832-7.
intended to help women rename, re-ritualize, rein-
terpret, and reframe childbearing for themselves lC
a pn rd es e t nh te inir g p va ir at bn lee ,r s . o f “ tR ena b u sz pz ii r i tr ue aje l,c t s a l tt eh rne a ts it va et su s t oquo, l
prevailing high-tech, patriarchal models of child- Dirty Looks: Women, Pornography, Power
birth.” — Booklist. $14.95 pb, 0-253-20827-0; $29.95 edited by Pamela Church Gibson and Roma
cl, -34769-6. Gibson. Although alternately fascinated, disgusted,
Women in the Civil Rights Movement: or enraged by pornography, women and men may
Trailblazers and Torchbearers, 1941-1965 edited by have good reasons to resist the rush toward moral
Vicki L. Crawford, Jacqueline Anne Rouse, and outrage. This collection argues that the issues are
Barbara Woods “helps break the gender line that both more complex and more interesting than the
restricted women in civil rights history to the back- censorship lobby allows. Includes essays by Linda
Williams and Lynne Segal, and two essays on porn
performer Annie Sprinkle. “This informative book
of essays takes a firm stand against both the
Christian right and anti-pornography feminists as
a“ H gse o er m ne e , u w i nrf i eti in n ga p l l uwy rit, ch h i as se i t et rus oa l t ia cu a at p .h p o r Tr o hs a e c ha e r sg t su o ae y su f n o pdr re er sa s et n al n te ds s i a n gd r o e g ap dm o ara bnt loi ec g , r a a nm p dho y r ae c ca ec n so d sn i-tex-
on things of worth. ble case for a deeper understanding of the place of
The collection of porn in contemporary culture and society.” —
pithy short stories, Publishers Weekly. $18.95 pb, 0-85170-404-2; $40 c|, -
filled with sad won- 403-4.
` der, tells of contem- The Less Noble Sex: Scientific, Religious, and
porary Egyptians ..…. Philosophical Conceptions of Woman’s Nature by
` timorously rebelling Nancy Tuana provides a framework for under-
By Salwa Bakr against the con- standing the persistence of the Western patriarchal
Translated by formism of life along view of woman as inferior. Tuana examines beliefs
D Ine tn ry os d u J cto ih onn s o bn y-Davies ` the — N (Li Cl oe n.” doRn) ObOserverA t inh fa et r iw ore ir te y a ac nc dep t se td u d a ie sp r ei ao rr li y a s t h ee ov rid iee sn c oe f o wf o mwo am n’sen’s
Barbara Harlow .* nature to illustrate the way scientific literature was
influenced by — and in turn affected — religious
UAt N If Vin Ee R b So Io Tks Yt o r Oes F. TEXAS PRESS na a $n 29d . 9 5p h i cl ]o , s o -p 3h 6i 0c 9a 8l - 6t .enets. $12.95 pb, 0-253-20830-0;
B lInodioanma Uniinvergsitty oPrness , 60I1N N . M4ort7on4 S0t.,4. O
January 1994
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:18 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
The Hothead Chronicles
By Kay Leigh Hagan pleasurable for lesbians. The more intimate accou-
trements are discreetly displayed in a private back
The continuing saga of my cross-country quest: to room, with an ingenious customer service: I can
promote Fugitive Information, to educate communities select the sex-toy of my choice, list it on a handy clip-
with feminist bookstores about the importance of sup- board note pad, and give my order to the clerk, who
porting them, not the superstores, and to discover the puts it right in the bag. This thoughtfulness is greatly
mysterious alchemy of what makes a book sell. As previ- appreciated by shy-types such as the Mystery
ously pledged, I plan to visit one hundred feminist Shopper. A new women’s bookstore, called In Other
stores. We rejoin the Hothead Express in Oregon... Words, due to open this month, is filled with con-
DID YoU READ ABOUT THIS NEW BUNNS
October 1993. I take off for Portland, Oregon, AND NOODLE SUPERSTORE OPENING
where Brooks and Katherine of Widdershins Books OUT AT THE MAL ? THEYLL HAvE 150,000
welcome me to their astonishing new store. On one TIATLENS, D NAEW SP ADPEAS WJ IN TCWAELVPEP LUANCGUCAGINES,O BAR! I'M
of Portland’s rose-laden residential circles, this bib- BE, AFRAID WE'RE GOWA LOSE SALES.
lio-sanctuary has a distinctive atmosphere and
great style. The focus is rare and out-of-print books
by and about women (though they stock certain
new titles) and the store feels like a sacred space —
calm, contemplative, serene. A coffee bar in the
back dispenses the essential lattes while I peruse
the stacks: I am particularly enchanted by the rare
books actually printed by women, a passion of
Brooks. I do worry about retail viability: Can a struction workers so I apprise their bold location,
bookstore with such a specific focus thrive? Will directly across the street from one of Powell's satel-
people value and support this precious service to lite stores. Will this proximity to Powell’s (for the
our movement? Far now, make it a point to get uninitiated: a wildly successful independent store
there, for it is a soul-edifying experience to have that occupies a full city block, mixes new & used
our heritage so honored. titles, and has several branch stores) prove to be
While in Portland, I cruise the main bohemian genius or insanity? What I do know is that Portland
drag of Hawthorne Street, dropping in on It’s My is one lucky city, with a special bookstore like
Pleasure, a store filled with books, toys, and all things Widdershins, a general women’s bookshop, and a
January 1994
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:18 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termslesbian pleasure store, too! I make time to visit poet and cafe manager Laura Hope-Gill. Malaprops
Catbird Seat Books, a downtown independent, and is clearly a center for women’s energy in Asheville.
Laughing Horse Books, “resources for radicals, A last stop in North Carolina is the Rainbow in
activists, queers, heretics, visionaries, and feminists,” Winston-Salem, another lively, successful, scrappy
where they offered the very classy gesture of a free independent with a full-service restaurant, a used
book of my choice in exchange for my reading and books branch called Again and Again, and a great
signing. The Mystery Shopper really hopes this idea atmosphere. Though I intended this tour to focus
catches on in the feminist bookstore network! strictly on feminist stores, the pressing threat of the
superstores to independents of all specialties is
T"T h D EH U E SH UX. PP EAW RN SED TL OL O, R U EM R A W YI ONB NVE ' E T NT TH COI ASR R Y R1 5 Y O , FT LH ITE KH E IP N E QGR USF E E ECW RTE TRWowE b be oc oo km sei ln leg r m teo lr lse man ed t m heo r se a m ap e p a tr he in nt g : t o t h em e s. u pE ev s e r ay re
ZINES B, P AO R TN A SM TEA FG UA LZ I SN EE LS E C , T IOER NS T OC F V SI ED XE O S T, O YM SA ...Y B AE SA Wrig elh ct o m d eo w tn o t th he e r “boa od o, k s a g ag sr e wss ii dv ge ely ts ” p r ee rs as .ing in.
A westward jag to Cincinnati to the venerable
Crazy Ladies where we discuss the essential need for
understanding ‘zines or at least hiring someone
who does! This younger generation, how to appeal
to them? The community is feverishly working to
e T1 ZZZ: ZZZ ZZZZZZŽ) = TIN NSS Na P S S:S S AN AN SNS d Cshe rf o ae zw ya st Lua an p d i efa sn o ’ rt i b- ag m ca kyy rtr oae l of k me r .e t n o T d hu r em e l i, Ms h ya n st td h e re a y s m a Sf ho e od pe h ps at ev r e c n r i so w ofd
Later this month in North Carolina, I move on delighted with the CL gift-certificate honorarium
to Durham, to the lovely old Victorian-style and chooses the elegant new cookbook A Taste of
Southern Sisters Bookstore. Cookie confesses to feel- Heaven and Earth.
ing, oh, perhaps just a tinge of the dreaded burn-
out, but after my talk is so utterly inspired, she
shoos us out the door to begin the Feminist
Christmas display that has leapt full-blown from
her knotted brow. “Think how perfect a little book
like MacKinnon's Only Words will be as a stocking
stuffer!” she muses. I do manage to steal a little
time in Southern Sisters great women’s crafts room,
always filled with treasures.
Up through the mountains to Malaprops, a won-
derful general/feminist bookstore in Asheville,
Emoke takes me to the downstairs cafe away from
the bustling customer activity in the bookstore.
Malaprops is one of my favorite bookstores specifi- November. After getting the news that
cally because of their bold, intelligent, broad-based Publishers Weekly has recommended Fugitive
buying savvy combined with their inventive section Information as one of the best books of 1993, I head
groupings that always ignite my curiosity. I shell out for one more city: Atlanta. Charis Books & More
out a bundle for the startling new book Frauen, as is my alma mater, where I cut my feminist teeth
Emoke displays a certain reckless savoir faire by selling books from 1980-84, and I am happy to have
teaching me how to make an origami box at the the chance to say goodbye to the triangular store-
register, her adept and nonplussed staff ringing up front they have called home for nineteen years. A
sales all around us. I regret missing the upcoming packed house of many old friends cheers me on,
women’s poetry reading, a regular feature called and Linda takes me on a tour of the beautiful new
“A Cafe of One's Own” produced by the brilliant Continued on page 68
44
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:18 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Bombay
By Shelley Anderson got even more involved. I gave up my job to work
on the issues. Two years before, the Supreme Court
“We are in a third phase of feminism in India,” had reversed the conviction of two police men who
said Sonal Shukla, a founder of Vacha, the women’s had raped a 14-year-old tribal girl named Mathura.
library and cultural center in Bombay. “In the 19th The Court said that, because Mathura wasn’t a vir-
century, reformers won rights such as education for gin and there were no scratch marks on the men,
women and the right of widows to remarry. Then
came the national movement, and more and more
women became politicized and fought for indepen-
dence. But after independence, women went back
to the home. In the 1970s another women’s move-
ment emerged, beginning with the United Nations
International Decade for Women.”
Shukla knows the history of the women’s move-
ment in India very well, because she has been an
active participant in making that history. So has
Vacha, a collection of over 2,200 books and periodi-
cals by and about women. Named after the Hindu
goddess of speech and verbal expression, Vacha
began in 1987 as both a lending library and a com-
munity resource center. The first library of its kind
in this city of over 10 million people, the collection
is now housed in part of Shukla’s small home in the
Vile Parle section of Bombay.
The house itself has seen a good deal of Indian
feminist history. Shukla points to her living room
and says with pride, “The women’s center started
here in 1981 for battered women. Because of that I
Volume 16 Number 5 45 January 1994
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:18 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termscame the Forum Against the Oppression of as many of them are first generation migrants from
Women, which still continues. rural areas. We have made ballads about ‘the brave
“Later in the 1980s the media lost interest in the and the courageous’ Chipko women, and about the
women’s movement. The government began to anti-rape movement. We train community workers
appropriate our languages, so feminism became in the use of cultural media,” in how to use tradi-
confused with state planning. We thought if we tional dance, song and performance to get across
started a library and cultural center we could offset social messages, Shukla said. On sale at Vacha are
this negative media image. A library looks so inno- cassettes of women’s folk songs, in addition to
cent! We pooled our own books and started with a copies of Anandi Gopal, a novel by S.J. Joshi about
collection of 400 books. We have never charged any India’s first woman doctor.
fees or fines.”
The library grew by donations, especially from
Western feminists. It now publishes a biannual “Most women are literacy deprived
newsletter and booklist, and is an important and don’t know how to read, so we start-
r ese ts eo du r c ine f Inor d i ab ’so t fh e m In ind ii sa tn man od v e mfo er ne ti .g n W w hio lem e mn o si tn t e or f- ed a cultural center, too.”
Vacha’s books are in English, there is a large collec-
tion of books in Gujarati, the main language of the At least 50 women per month use Vacha’s lend-
neighboring state of Gujarat (Bombay is located in ing library, borrowing everything from novels by
Maharashtra state, where the main language is Erica Jong to books like The Issues at Stake, a history
Marathi). English and Hindi are the official lan- of the contemporary women’s movement by
guages of India, and the languages of the educated Nandita Gandhi and Nandita Shah, published by
class. But how accessible is a women’s library at all the feminist press Kali for Women. Students come
in a country where over 70 percent of the female to read Manushi, the Indian feminist magazine,
population cannot read or write in any of India’s while 30 or more women regularly attend the
122 languages? monthly study circle. “Reading is a lonely activity,”
said Shukla. “Many women want to discuss what
Named after the Hindu goddess of they read and meet other women.” Other women
attend the periodic talks on women’s issues held at
speech and verbal expression, Vacha Vacha, or telephone the library for questions about
began in 1987 as a lending library and a legal rights or upcoming events for women. The
community resource center. l oi fb fr ia cr ey ( ih na s 1 9s 9u 0p ,p o tr ht ee d s tw ato em e gn o v ec ra nn mdi ed nat te s r uf lo er d p thub atli c 30
percent of all local government seats must be
“Most women are literacy deprived and don’t reserved for women candidates), and been involved
know how to read,” agrees Shukla, who worked in in collecting and distributing food and clothes to
community education before she became involved victims of communal riots. Shukla is proud of the
in the women’s movement. “So we started a cultur- fact that Vacha volunteers and users include
al center, too. We have produced a major street the- Hindus, Moslems and Buddhists.
atre program on the Chipko movement. (Author's Vacha started as a collective of five, then seven
note: in the 1970s, tribal women in the Himalayan women, Shukla said. “The original founders are
foothills began a massive civil disobedience cam- mostly gone. There were no major fights,” she says,
paign to stop the destruction of their forests by log- “just too little time to work on both jobs and
gers. They embraced (“chipko”) the trees and Vacha.” If plans to expand the library succeed, vol-
refused to leave until the loggers did. The highly unteers and collective members may have even less
successful campaign spread throughout the time. Vacha needs new quarters to house the grow-
foothills and resulted in a logging moratorium.) ing collections. But finding a suitable place — and
Urban slum dwellers are very interested in Chipko, Continued on page 56
46
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:18 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
By Catalina Cariaga Here are a few books of specific interest to femi-
nist bookstores:
Each December, residents of Berkeley and
Oakland, California look forward to Radio KPFA’s Our Feet Walk the Sky: Women of the South
(FM 94.1, Berkeley) Annual Crafts Fair. For over Asian Diaspora is the culmination of a vision by
twenty years, crafts people from the Bay Area have the Women of South Asian Descent Collective. The
displayed their work for sale as gifts for the holi-
days and New Year. Poetry Flash, A Poetry Review
and Literary Calendar, is always a participant.
Instead of hand-crafts, editor Joyce Jenkins hand
picks a special collection of new books — little jew-
els that ordinarily would not be getting the atten-
tion they deserve in the frenzy of the commercial
push for the gift-giving season. Poetry Flash offers a
10% discount on over seventy-five titles and the
proceeds benefit our not-for-profit literary cause;
throughout the day we have local writers present to
sign books. Of course we also have a couple of big
selling books to cover the cost of stocking the small-
er titles: last year Mollie Katzen’s Moosewood
Cookbook sold like hotcakes; this year, Wavy
Gravy’s Something Good for a Change: Random Notes
on Peace Thru Living, and his personal appearance
got a lot of attention and generated a lot of extra
sales from our exhibition table. The atmosphere is
always festive, with the munching on holiday cook-
ies and the distinctive sound of laughter coming
from Radio KPFA’s feminist, writer and personality We Are The Young Magicians by Ruth Forman,
Jennifer Stone (Stone's Throw: Selected Essays and Beacon Press
Telegraph Avenue Then, Regent Press) situated in a various and rich regions of India, Sri Lanka and the
booth across the aisle. countries of South Asia are often overlooked in
“Asian” literature anthologies; this book con-
Catalina Cariaga is a poet and contributing editor for tributes to a greater understanding of what is possi-
Poetry Flash. Her work has appeared most recently in ble in print. A thick book that stands out on a shelf,
Dissident Song: A Contemporary Asian American it includes scholarly essays on race, culture and
Anthology, and is forthcoming in ONTHEBUS and gender, short stories, poems, as well as unconven-
ZYZZYVA. tional creative writings such as journal entries and
Volume 16 Number 5 47 January 1994
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:18 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsprose meditations. $12.95 pb, 1-879960-32 X, Aunt why she faced the sun
Lute, 372 pages. when we laid her to rest
Saturday Night at the Pahala Theatre by Lois- on the hill next to her mother.
Ann Yamanaka is a wacky and tender book of $10 pb, 1-8813996-8, Institute of American
poems by a Japanese American from Hawaii. Most Indian Arts, 252 pages. This book is the fifth in an
distinctive is her use of her local community’s annual series Which can be ordered by writing to the
dialect of English in Hawaii. Yamanaka has a won- Creative Writing Program, Institute of American
derfully musical ear for language and the keen abil- Indian Arts, PO Box 2000, Santa Fe NM 87504.
ity to capture it on paper for her readers: Full Moon on the Reservation, by Gloria Bird
he going to cut across your backyard was chosen for the North American Native Author
from the papaya tree side First Book Award. Bird grew up in the Yakima
when you whistle the Filipino love call, Valley in Washington State and survived the reser-
then take you when you leave your house vation missions and the BIA boarding school sys-
for buy jar mayonnaise for your madda tems — to write heartrending and generous verse.
from the superette. $9.95 pb, 0912678-86-0, Greenfield Review Press.
(From “Kala Gave Me Anykine Advice We Are the Young Musicians by 24-year-old
Especially About Filipinos When I Moved to African American poet Ruth Forman was chosen
Pahala”) winner of the Barnard New Women Poets Series.
Sonia Sanchez says of this book, “This is blue black
womanish poetry alerting us to past and future her-
stories.” The introduction is by Cherrie Moraga; the
cover art is eye-catching in black, white and gold.
4 $9 pb, 0-8070-6821-7, Beacon Press.
Unraveling Words & the Weaving of Water by
Cecilia Vicuna is a book of poems collected from
three of Vicuna’s five books of poetry in Spanish
translated into English in a bi-lingual edition by
Eliot Weinberger and Suzanne Levine. Vicuna is a
E wCh hi ol e a dn r a wpo se t o, n f i il nm fm lua ek ne cr e s a n ofd tp he er f o or rm al a n tc re a d ia tr it oi ns st of
/ the High Andes which meet with modern linguis-
( N. tics and ecological concerns of the rain forests.
Photos of her installations and performance art
The book has a whimsical and colorful cover by with text are also included in the book. $12 pb, 1-
artist Cora Lee. $8 pb, 0-910043-31-0, Bamboo Ridge 55597-166-0, Graywolf Press.
Press, The Hawaii Writers’ Quarterly, 1993. This when new time folds up, by Kathleen Fraser is
special double issue (numbers 58 and 59) can be praised by poet Susan Howe as, “at the height of
ordered at a 40% discount through Bamboo Ridge her powers...sensitive to marks and traces, the
Press, PO Box 61781, Honolulu, Hawaii, 96839; Tel. sounds of voices, of cries.” The pages have an airy
808-599-4823. “post modern” sensibility, and the text is both clas-
It’s Not Quiet Anymore: New York from the sic and lyrically fresh. $11pb, 0-925904-14-7, Chax
Institute of American Indian Arts, a quality anthol- Press, PO Box 19178, Minneapolis MN 55419.
ogy of poems by twenty-three Native Americans What Is Found There: Notebooks on Poetry and
poets. Here is a short poem by Heather Ahtone: Politics is a collection of twenty-three essays by the
she dies speaking a language distinguished poet, Adrienne Rich. Rich explores the
i forgot to learn spectrum of the poetic process from the personal to
before she said goodbye the political from her own experience with literature
when i could might have understood Continued on page 52
48
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:18 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsBy Renée Albrecht love of doing work for women is rare but Donna is
The Women’s Bookstop full of that warmth. She actually twinkles.
Hamilton, Ontario But yes, this work for women can feel like a
burden. We all need to break from it now and then.
As I read the Canadian Content section (last Taking a long break seems difficult when you are
issue) I began to feel choked up. In her article Joan running a women’s bookstore, but without the
Turner is expressing the sad, tired and fearful break we get so tired that we must get out.
waves I try to deny in myself. Yet what work would we do instead? As diffi-
People come along and ask how we are and we smile cult as it feels, this is a job we have been fortunate
and say “We're great. We're hanging in.” Big smile. to have. To do social activism for a living is the
After nearly ten years we have to work harder greatest gift.
than ever. This fall Women’s Bookstop fell behind
in payments to several suppliers. Hopefully the
holiday season will save us. Lots of books will be
returned and ordering will happen less frequently.
No extra books on the shelves until things pick up.
I agree that we Canadian feminist bookstores
should strengthen our network. I'm uncomfortable Here in Hamilton we’ve struggled to sell femi-
with promoting big name American authors just so nist books for a long time. It is not going to get easi-
we can get publicity. There are many radical feminist er. I see some authors like Naomi Wolf trying to
authors in Canada who we would do well to support. make feminism easier to swallow. But I gag at the
twisting of our words. Feminism is not mainstream.
Those few titles that make it to the big bookstores
may be helpful to some, but are they demanding an
end to military agendas or that we stop supporting
Proctor and Gamble’s poisoning of our rivers?
I think the toughest thing for those of us work-
Recently Hamilton had Starhawk for an ing in this field is not the financial burden, it’s our
evening. The turnout was wonderful. I have never intellectual burden. Every day we read books writ-
had an easier time getting women out (except for ten by the brightest women on this planet. We are
Anne Cameron some years ago). I was glad that so aware of the bullshit the mainstream spoons
Women’s Bookstop could be seen as having the down the public's throat... This knowing, knowing,
clout to bring the famous author. However, I would knowing is exhausting, but knowledge is loud —
have sat at the feet of Donna Reed all night. Donna knowledge is the hardest noise to silence.
is the Canadian filmmaker responsible for the Here’s to all of us who have ever worked in a
National Film Board's Women’s Spirituality film wom an’s R bookstoere. née O
series. Donna traveled with Starhawk recently as Take good care.
the two promoted the last film in the series. Such
49
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:18 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Staff Raves from Amason’s News & Notes. Home Movies, Paula Martinac. A touching,
Elsa: I Come With My Songs, Elsa Gidlow. I well-written story of a woman struggling with the
recently took time away from my leaning tower of death of her sister and a beloved uncle who died of
books-to-read books, to re-read this delightful les- AIDS. Sad and funny—it made me laugh and cry—
bian autobiography. Enough said. $10.95. what more can you ask of a novel? —fJo
—Donna
Transforming a Rape Culture, Emilie
The Earth House, Jeanne DuPrau. Beautifully Buchwald, Pamela Fletcher, and Martha Roth. I am
written. The Earth House tells the story of two part-way through this ground-breaking work, and
women and their relationship to each other and still trucking. The editors have done an excellent
each with herself. DuPrau writes of the quest for job of putting together writers, activists, educators
spirituality and meaning in life, about living and philosophers who articulate clearly not only
responsibly in the environment, about cancer, the problem of rape and violence in this culture, but
death, and grief. She reflects on the richness of life visions for radical transformation. A powerful read-
and the complex intermingling of spirituality with ing experience and valuable resource. —Jaila
everyday living with an intimacy rarely found. A
hopeful, amazing book. $8.50. —Mev
=se Ye p,y uha-hu.h . 3
The Sea of Light, Jenifer Levin. A wonderful [ag
book for women who love sports and understand A
the way working your body can bring clarity to r
your life. The book centers on a college swim team
and three women who use that team, the sport, and
each other to overcome traumas in their lives. I've
never read a book before that captures the way
women find truth through athletics and using their
bodies. This book is a must for anyone who likes to
watch or play women’s sports. $21.00. —fJenny Dreaming in Cuba by Christina Garcia. This
beautifully painted novel focuses on three genera-
For those of you lusting after women adventure tions of Cuban women and their perspectives on
stories and maybe feeling you're getting just a little Cuba and the Cuban Revolution. Garcia's writing is
too old for those wild trips of your youth—read Polar so compelling and magical I couldn't put the book
D Br ohea m b y b y T r aH ce yl e n J o T hh na sy toe nr ( ($ $2 12 1. .0 00 0) ) , o br o tS hh o wot ri in tg te nt h be y d row en, a a dnd i nI m giss ed i t the . ch a $rac 1te 0rs . w h e —n I fwa Jsn’t enny
“menopausal women.” The quality of the writing
varies—Shooting the Boh is definitely the better Spawn of Dykes to Watch Out For by Alison
book—but their stories are absolutely hair-raising. I Bechdel. I'm so excited that a new Alison Bechdel
kept my partner awake many a night reading these book is out! Among other hot news, Toni and
books, saying things like “oh my god, you won't Clarice are having their baby. Read the book to find
believe this...no000, she didn’t really do that... —Barb out the dramatic results. $8.95. — Kath O
50
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:18 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
N
ooo 9 O
In a culture gone visual, movies are the big word Newswire). What these reports never mention is
this fall. Movie tie-ins abound even for feminist that, thanks to the chain superstore madness, there
bookstores. Ten years ago I used to look at the are also a lot more bookstores now than there were
movie tie-in features in PW and laugh. This fall a year ago. (Barnes and Noble alone has added 50
we've seen The Joy Luck Club, Household Saints, House new stores for a total of 958 stores in the first 9
of the Spirits, as well as The Age of Innocence and Even months of 1993.) Unfortunately, nobody seems to
Cowgirls Get the Blues. January 10, 11 and 12 it’s Tales be counting but my money says that if you divided
of the City in three two-hour segments on PBS’ the 1993 sales by the total number of bookstores
American Playhouse. Salmonberries and Forbidden and compared that to the 1992 sales divided by the
Love are on video (see From Our Own Presses) and number of bookstores in 1992, you'd see a marked
are moving well where they’re available. decline in average sales per store — a statistic that
would reflect bookstore reality much more accu-
rately than “Sales are up 6%.”
o 9 O9 o oAo N Christmas sales got off to a slow start almost
everywhere. It's December 15th as I write this and
But the really powerful movie/book tie-in is stores are reporting that sales are “picking up” but,
Alice Walker's Warrior Marks. Walker and filmmaker among all the booksellers I've talked to, exactly one
Pratibha Parmar’s book/film combination brilliantly reported that December 1-15 sales were above all of
move the issues of genital mutilation to a centerstage the last three Decembers.
position that will create the public awareness and
energy necessary to generate change. It was great IAN
that Walker got a Pulitzer for The Color Purple but
there should also be awards of equal prestige for
brilliant political organizing and education. At the 1993 ABA Membership Meeting, Jennie
Sales are up: in Toni Morrison titles. According Boyd Bull (Thirtyfirst Street Bookstore) put forward
to PW, booksellers ordered 48,000 copies of Toni a motion that “ABA develop and implement in 1993
Morrison titles the day after her Nobel was a national promotional and advertising campaign in
announced. I suspect that, because feminist book- major media educating the American public about
stores have been doing our job well for years, many the necessity and importance of independent and
of our customers simply turned to their own book- specialty bookstores to the preservation of free
shelves to pick up copies of Morrison's work to speech, First Amendment rights, and diversity in the
(re)read, rather than running out to a bookstore to U.S. This campaign will include materials for in-
“discover” her, as happened in many other book- store use by member stores.” The motion was
stores. approved with great enthusiasm but ABA has yet to
Sales are “up” 6.7% during the first three quar- implement it. In October the ABA Board of Directors
ters of 1993, according to the U.S. Bureau of the reviewed proposals from two advertising agencies
Census’ Current Retail Trade Branch (as reported in and rejected them both as inappropriate. A task force
January 1994
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:18 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsof board members was created to implement the res- Poetry „=. continued from page 48
olution at that meeting and new proposals will be
reviewed at the February board meeting. as well as with examples from other poets. (In the
Congratulations to the New England chapter entitled, “The Space for Poetry” she makes
Booksellers Association on persuading New Words’ reference to the Poetry Flash in her footnote on page
Gilda Bruckman to join their board this fall! 391) $20 cl, 0-393-03565-4, Norton.
Definitely a wise move on their part. The Last Generation by poet, playwright and
essayist Cherrie Moraga is a new collection of
0) essays and poems. Moraga moves freely between
O 9 o00 English and Spanish through poems and prose
which are highly politicized and intensely personal.
NCIBA also scored a coup this fall: They've cre- Moraga writes of her role as a lesbian
ated a t-shirt that features the Tom Tomorrow car- activist/writer in the Chicano community that, “I
toon that compares independent and chain book- am the last generation put on this planet to remem- `
stores over the caption “Northern California ber and record.” $30 cl, 0-89608-467-1; $14 pb, 0-
Independent Booksellers Association for a Better 689608-466-3, South End Press.
Tomorrow” that’s being worn in all the finest book-
stores in Northern California...
ABFFE is distributing the conference report
from the National Coalition Against Censorship’s
conference “The Sex Panic: Women, Censorship and
Pornography.” Copies are free to ABA bookstore
members. (One per store). To get a free copy write
or fax ABFFE (560 White Plains Road, Tarrytown
NY 10580; fax 914-631-8391). Requests should be
marked “NCAC Booklet.”
Other great send-fors: National Public Radio
now does a bi-weekly listing of all books and
authors appearing on NPR programs including
Morning Edition, All Things Considered and Laura Irene Wayne
Weekend Edition. To receive the list regularly, con- FORTHCOMING:
tact Alan Simpson, NPR, Promotion and Public Dictee by the late Korean American poet
A 8f 2f 2a -ir 2s 3, 0 2 90 .25 M St. NW, Washington DC 20036; 202- aT wh ae ir te es da tH ha ik r d K pu rn ig n t iC nh ga bw yi l l T hb ie r d i s s Wue od m ai nn Pit rs e s sl o n ing
AWMAC (The Association of Women’s Music Berkeley in January of 1994. Cha’s text which
and Culture) has put together a database that lists defies the genres of poetry, fiction, history and
up-coming women’s music events around the coun- autobiography, still retains its enigmatic quality
try and now publishes it in print form. One of the since its first publication in 1983. Cha, like Cecilia
primary purposes of collecting and distributing this Vicuna, was a filmmaker and artist in New York
information is to reduce the likelihood of double City. Dictee is a stunningly visual book, and Cha
billings. Feminist bookstores that produce large uses English, French, and Chinese calligraphy in
(and small) events may also find the database/cal- locating her post-colonial predicament as a Korean
endar to be very helpful. Avoiding one double American woman and artist. Third Woman Press,
booking per year could easily pay for a year’s sub- Berkeley CA. Books can be ordered at a 40% dis-
scription. Subscriptions to the calendar are count through the University Bookstore, 2625
$45/year ($35 for AWMAC members). Order from Durant, Berkeley CA 94720.
AWMAC Calendar, 219 Allen, Lansing MI 48912. My New Year's resolution is to read many if not
Memberships are $25 per year. -CSO all of these books in the coming months. O
52
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:18 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsMartin Luther King Parkway #46, Beaumont, Texas
77705. She says she loves getting the mail, but that
New Stores since her plans don’t include opening a bookstore
Denise Sallee is the owner of Raven in the in the foreseeable future, publishers may want to
Grove, “a women’s bookstore and gallery” featur- remove her from their bookstore lists completely.
ing “a wonderful selection of books and magazines Cheryl and FBN thank you for your attention to
reflecting the colorful diversity of women’s lives.” solving this problem.
She carries a unique selection of handcrafted gifts
and also has a gallery space that will honor women
artists. Send greetings to 505 Lighthouse Avenue
Suite 103, Pacific Grove CA 93950.
Catherine Tetrick has opened In Other Words.
The grand opening of this feminist bookstore was Moved
celebrated in November with an appearance by Press Gang Publishers have moved to a new
Nicole Conn. Warm wishes can be sent to 3734 SE office. Their new address is #101 - 225 East 17th
Hawthorne Blvd., Portland OR 97214. Ave., Vancouver, BC V5V 1A6, Canada. Their new
Outwrite Books is a new gay and lesbian book- phone number is 604-876-7787. The new fax num-
store in Atlanta. Besides offering books and periodi- ber is 604-876-7892.
cals, Outwrite also has a coffeehouse. The owner,
Philip Rafshoon, hopes to make his store a commu- New Catalogs
nity center for gays and lesbians in the area. Contact Heartland Books has come out with a lovely
Philip at 931 Monroe Dr., Atlanta GA 30308. “catalog for lesbians who love to read.” The cata-
log is on glossy paper and gives descriptions of
New Distribution Arrangements current lesbian titles in a variety of genres:
Press Gang (Vancouver BC, Canada) and romance & mystery, sf/f, erotica, sexuality, humor,
Spinifex Press (No. Melbourne, Australia) will be health and recovery and much much more.
distributed by InBook in the U.S. as of January 1, Customers can order by phone or mail. Heartland
1994. Press Gang is now distributed by General in Books is located at Taplin Hill Road, East Corinth
Canada. VT 05040.
New Addresses Anniversaries
Regrettably, Cheryl Underhill’s Sappho’s People Like Us Books, Chicago’s gay and les-
Garden bookstore will not be able to open. Her mail bian bookstore, celebrated its five year anniversary
was mistakenly forwarded to her family address on November 12th. To celebrate this anniversary,
and in the process she was “outed” to many family People Like Us gave away shopping sprees, t-shirts,
members. Please check your mailing lists and if you knapsacks and a grand prize worth $250 in People
show Cheryl’s zip as 77640 in Port Arthur, Texas, Likte Uos m erc hanCdise.h We i exctenda ogur woarm! w ish esO
please remove it. Her current address is 5725 So.
Volume 16 Number 5 53
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:18 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsCompiled by Dawn L. Martin by publishing their works and sharing experiences.
Any fiction manuscripts of interest to young lesbian
Kiriyo Spooner wants information on historical and gay readers will be considered. Please send to '
women in your area for a travel guidebook to Wild Impatience Publishing, PO Box 295, Lloyd FL
women’s history in the U.S. Do you know of a local 32337. Deadline: April 15, 1994.
statue, a commemorative plaque, a famous
woman's birthplace or grave? Seen important mate- Poetry, fiction, oral histories and autobiogra-
rial about women in your local historical museum? phies are wanted for a feminist anthology written
Heard tales of notorious women from the past? All by and for women with chronic illness. Topics may
leads are welcome, and will be acknowledged in include: religion, race, culture, body image, disabili-
the book. Please send to: Kiriyo Spooner, 2 Meadow ty identity, relationships, class, age, healing, sexual
Place, East Haven CT 06512. orientation, et al. The anthology will be edited by
Laurel Fain and Pella Schafer. They have both
Submissions for an anthology on U.S. Women recently been diagnosed with chronic illnesses
of Color and AIDS are wanted. The editors wel- (lupus and interstitial cystitis). For more informa-
come personal narratives, journal entries, and polit- tion write to Anthology, PO Box 492, Santa Cruz
ical essays by women of color who are living with CA 9 5061.MPEP
HIV and AIDS, care-givers of women with AIDS
and women who are working in AIDS as activists,
advocates, professionals, community organizers,
health care and social service providers. Poetry, art- To everyone whose life has been affected by
work, and black and white photographs are wel- HIV... Spirit Maps: A Learning Project is interested
come. Kitchen Table Women of Color Press will in knowing your responses to this question: What
publish the anthology. Send inquiries to Anthology have you learned about life lately? All responses
Editors c/o T. Gardner, 129 West 20th Street, New will be exhibited (anonymously if you wish, and
York NY 10011. completely uncensored) as part of a major installa-
tion by artists Philip Blackburn and Donald
Fiction and poems by women wanted on all Engstrom to be shown at Intermedia Arts Gallery,
aspects of women’s friendship — from girlhood on Minnesota in April. For details write to Spirit Maps,
— for the anthology Girlfriends. Girlfriends will be PO Box 80788, Minneapolis MN 55408 or call (612)
published by The Crossing Press. Payment plus 825-5532.
copies. Write to Amber Coverdale Sumrall, 434
Pennsylvania Ave., Santa Cruz CA 95062. Deadline: Please send slides or artwork, any medium, for
April 30, 1994. possible inclusion in No More Nice Girls: A
Women’s Festival to be held at ABC No Rio in New
Wild Impatience Publishing is dedicated to nur- York City, March 1994. There will be an exhibition
turing the talents of young lesbian and gay writers Continued on page 63
54
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:18 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Compiled by Dawn L. Martin By the end of 1993 Naiad Press will have
reprinted twenty-four titles and printed twenty-
Down There Press has announced the reprint- four new books. Reprint totals are over 108,000
ing of the following titles: Good Vibrations: The copies, averaging 4,500 copies per title. The twenty-
Complete Guide to Vibrators goes into its eighth print- four new titles accounted for over 210,000 individ-
ing; 5,000 copies bring its in-print total to 34,000. ual copies averaging out to a first print run of 8,750
The Playbook for Kids About Sex rises to 12,000 copies per book.
in print after a fourth printing of 3,000. The Playbook
for Women About Sex reaches 12,500 in print with its Reissues
fourth printing of 3,500 copies. Turning the Wheel: American Women Creating the
New Buddhism by Sandy Boucher has just been reis-
sued in a new revised expanded paperback edition
from Beacon Press.
I Like You to Make Jokes With Me, But I Don't
Seal Press sold out the first print run (6,000) of Want You to Touch Me by Ellen Bass, illustrated by
the cloth edition of Barbara Wilson’s Troubles in Margo Lemieux is back in print. Recommended for
Transylvania two months after publication and has children ages three through ten, the book was first
sent the book back for a 2,000 copy second printing. published in 1985 to help teach young children how
Cleis Press’ The Case of the Not-So-Nice-Nurse: A to feel safe and strong. The Spanish version Me
Nancy Clue Mystery by Mabel Maney went back to Gusta Que Bromees Conmigo Pero No Quiero Que Me
press in October for a second printing of 5,000 Toques is translated by Maria A. Salgado. Both edi-
copies, bringing the total number in print to 11,000. tions are published by Lollipop Power Books, 120
The first printing of 6,000 copies rolled off the Morris Street, Durham, North Carolina 27701.
presses in September and sold out in less than six
weeks. Daughters of Darkness went back December
13th for a second printing of 5,000 bringing the
number of copies to 10,000. Hothead Paisan:
Homicidal Lesbian Terrorist will go back to press in
January.
ILR Press at Cornell University has announced
that Holding the Line: Women in the Great Arizona
Mine Strike of 1983 by Barbara Kingsolver (1989) is
back at press. This will be their fifth printing, bring-
ing the total copies in print to well over 8,500.
Academy Chicago Publishers has sent four Rights
books back to press: Victorian Lady Travellers by Silver Moon Books (U.K.) has acquired the
Dorothy Middleton, Female Friends by Fay Weldon, British rights to Crazy for Loving by Jaye Maiman
Life Among the Savages by Shirley Jackson, Lucrezia and Under the Southern Cross by Claire McNab. Both
Floriani by George Sand. titles were first published by Naiad Press.
Volume 16 Number 5 55 January 1994
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:18 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsDown There Press is pleased that their sex year’s winners there are two women: Denise
information and self-awareness books are now Levertov who received the poetry award and
available to a wider audience than ever before. Carole Maso who received a fiction fellowship.
Translation rights to three titles have been sold to
overseas publishers. Good Vibrations: The Complete Other Good News
Guide to Vibrators is now available in a non-exclu- Excerpts from Changes: A Love Story, a novel by
sive German mail order edition. Trade rights are Ama Ata Aidoo (published by The Feminist Press
still available. Anal Pleasure and Health will be pub- in New York) will run in Ms. and Essence. Ama Ata
lished by Arci Gay in an Italian edition. Taro Jiro, Aidoo was born in Ghana and is the author Our
L Kt idd s. h Aa bs o ua tc q u Si er xe .d Japanese rights to The Playbook for Sister Killjoy or Reflections from a Black-Eyed Squint, a
volume of short stories; No Sweetness Here, a play
Awards and a volume of poetry, Talking to Sometime. O
New Victoria Publishers was honored by the
Vermont Book Publishers Association. They Vacha ..…. Continued from page 46
received a Special Merit Award for the publication the money for it — is a major problem. “It is too
of A Perilous Advantage: The Best of Natalie Clifford expensive to rent — Bombay has the highest rising
Barney, edited and translated by Anna Livia. property rates in the world,” Shukla said. “In 1990
Considerations in the judging were book content the collective decided to register as a trust, but
and packaging, aesthetic appeal, depth of knowl- agreed not to apply for foreign grants. This year
edge, clarity of presentation and writing style. (1993) we realized we can’t do without foreign
grants. In order to receive foreign funds, we must
have clearance from the police because, as one
policeman said, ‘You may be a terrorist agency!”
Shukla said. Shukla is not worried about securing
The cover of Hisaye Yamamoto’s Seventeen police clearance because as she said, “They don’t
Syllables and Other Stories, published by Kitchen take women seriously — which is good. They are
Table: Women of Color Press, has been awarded conservative and traditional, so they will see the
First Place in the Quality Trade Paperback category library as some good work that ladies are doing.”
by the New York Book Show and the Bookbinder’s Books and women may seem an innocent connec-
Guild of New York. The winning design is Kitchen tion to some, but Shukla and the women of Vacha
Table’s first full four-color cover and features a know the explosive power of women’s words, and
photograph by Mitzi Trumbo from the American are determined to share that power.
Playhouse/PBS film, “Hot Summer Winds,” which Vacha no longer has the space for donations of
is based on Yamamoto’s Seventeen Syllables. books. But information about foundations that
The National Book Foundation presented its might support the library and cultural center would
prestigious National Book Awards November 17 at be appreciated.
the Plaza Hotel in New York City. E. Annie Proulx Vacha, 5 Bhavana Apts., Opp. Golden Tobacco,
won the National Book Award for fiction for The S.V. Road, Vile Parle (W), Bombay Maharashtra 400
Shipping News, while Gore Vidal was awarded the 056, India. .
prize for nonfiction for United States: Essays 1952-
1992. Proulx was also awarded the Irish Times
International Fiction Prize in November (as well for
The Shipping News).
The Lannan foundation has increased the indi-
vidual cash prizes for its 1993 literary awards and
fellowships from $40,000 to $50,000, for a total of
$500,000 in annual prizes to writers. Among this
56
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:18 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
31st Street N . I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings, Maya
Baltimore, MD Angelou.
Bestselling Fiction 1993 . Zami, Audre Lorde.
Pigs in Heaven, Barbara Kingsolver, $22.00 cl. . Written By Herself, Jill Ker Conway.
The Fifth Sacred Thing, Starhawk, $21.95 cl. Gertrude & Alice, Diana Souhami.
Stone Butch Blues, Leslie Feinberg, $10.95. S Catholic Girls, Amber Sumrall and Patrice
Alma Rose, Edith Forbes, $10.95. Vecchione.
SRN Bastard Out of Carolina, Dorothy Allison, . Refuge, Terry Tempest Williams.
$10.00. . Coming Into the End Zone, Doris Grumbach.
Bailey’s Cafe, Gloria Naylor, $11.00. . Lakota Woman, Mary Crow Dog.
Sea of Light, Jenifer Levin, $21.00 cl. o ww .N Celia, A Slave, Melton A. McLaurin.
Venus Envy, Rita Mae Brown, $21.95 cl.
Empathy, Sarah Schulman, $10.00.
© LNN Your Blues Ain’t Like Mine, Bebe Moore
Campbell, $12.00.
Herland Book-Cafe
Santa Cruz, CA
October
T Judy Horacek Fiction
1. Orlando, Virginia Woolf.
New Words Bastard Out of Carolina, Dorothy Allison.
Cambridge, MA OtherWorld, Sarah Dreher.
The Bean Trees, Barbara Kingsolver.
Women, Politics, & Society (Paperback) JN . The Fifth Sacred Thing, Starhawk.
Backlash, Susan Faludi. Nonfiction
Sister Outsider, Audre Lorde. 1. Women Who Run With the Wolves, Clarissa
. Sisters of the Yam, bell hooks. Pinkola Estes.
Revolution From Within, Gloria Steinem. . Cultural Etiquette, Market Wimmin.
The Morning After, Cynthia Enloe. wW N. Woman's Comfort Book, Jennifer Louden.
Facts About Women, WAC. 4. Wild Mind: Living the Writer's Life, Natalie
The Beauty Myth, Naomi Wolf. Goldberg.
. You Just Don’t Understand, Deborah Tannen. 5. Ferrari’s Places for Women, Ferrari.
. The Mismeasure of Woman, Carol Tavris.
p DPSN NS.S N White Women, Race Matters, Ruth Frankenberg. November
Fiction
Biographies and Autobiographies 1. Spawn of Dykes to Watch Out For, Alison
1. Eleanor Roosevelt, Vol. 1, Blanche Wiesen Bechdel.
Cook. 2. Bastard Out of Carolina, Dorothy Allison.
Volume 16 Number 5 January 1994
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:18 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
3. The Fifth Sacred Thing, Starhawk. Textures
4. OtherWorld, Sarah Dreher. San Antonio, TX
5. The Bean Trees, Barbara Kingsolver. November
Nonfiction . Under My Skin, Jaye Maiman, $10.95.
. Warrior Marks, Alice Walker. . Romantic Naiad, eds. Forrest & Grier, $14.95.
. Fountain of Age, Betty Freidan. . Lesbian Sex, JoAnn Loulan, $12.95.
. Blood, Bread and Roses, Judy Grahn. . k.d. lang: Carrying the Torch, William
R W N. Women Who Run With the Wolves, Clarissa Robertson, $9.95.
Pinkola Estes. [S2] R w.W NThe Case of the Not So Nice Nurse, Mable
5. On Women Turning 50, Catherine Rountree. Maney, $9.95.
. Stay Tuned, Rhonda Dicksion, $9.95.
. Isis Rising, Jean Stewart, $9.95.
. The Fifth Sacred Thing, Starhawk, $21.95.
. Love Spell, Karen Williams, $9.95.
H ON O .N O Corners of the Heart, Leslie Grey, $9.95.
Blackboard
African-American Bestsellers
December
Hardcover Fiction
1. Ugly Ways by Tina McElroy Ansa, Harcourt
Brace, $19.95, 0-15-192553-4.
2. Her Own Place by Dori Sanders, Algonquin of Phoenix Books
Chapel Hill, $16.95, 1-56512-027-2. Kansas City, MO
3. A Lesson Before Dying by Ernest J. Gaines, November
Knopf, $21, 0-679- 41477-0. 1. Daughters of Darkness, ed. by Pam Keesey.
4. Free Enterprise by Michelle Cliff, Dutton, $19, . Under My Skin, Jaye Maiman.
0-525-93704-8. wW N. Romantic Naiad, eds. Katherine V. Forrest/
5. Home Repairs: A Novel by Trey Ellis, Simon & Barbara Grier.
Schuster, $21, 0-671-76924-3. . We-Moon Calendar.
. Lady Lobo, Kristen Garrett.
Hardcover Nonfiction . Other Side of Silence, Joan M. Drury.
1. What Black People Should Do Now by Ralph N O 9. A Spawn of Dykes to Watch Out For, Alison
Wiley, One World/Ballantine, $22, 0-345- Bechdel.
38045-2. . Claire of the Moon, Nicole Conn.
2. Wouldn't Take Nothing For My Journey Now . Having Our Say, Sarah and Elizabeth Delaney.
by Maya Angelou, Random House, $17, 0-679- © v w. I Sit Listening to the Wind, Judith Duerk.
42743-0.
3. Having Our Say: The Delany Sisters’ First 100
Years by Sara and A. Elizabeth Delany with
Amy Hill Hearth, Kodonsha, $20, 1- 56836-010-
X.
4. In The Company Of My Sisters: Black Women Silver Moon
And Self-esteem by Julia A. Boyd, Dutton, $18, London, England
0-525-93708-0. Bestsellers in 1993
5. Wild Women Don’t Wear No Blues: Black Wild Swans, Three Daughters of China, Jung
Women Writers On Love, Men & Sex edited Chang, £7.99. The unforgettable story of three gen-
by Marita Golden, Doubleday, $22.50, 0-385- erations of women, this bestseller is mesmerising,
42400-0. Continued on page 60
January 1994 58 Volume 16 Number 5
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:18 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsBooks From Canada:
BORD
CRO
By Jana Williams and Dorothy Seaton Hallett. This is the first major biography of the
writer, political activist and politician who had a
Where has the year gone???? We didn’t read profound impact on Canada at the beginning of the
nearly the number of books we'd meant to — and twentieth century. Davis and Hallett have both
here’s a whole column’s-worth more! been professors at the University of Saskatchewan.
$26.95 c1, 1-895618-20-7.
Coach House Press The Last Sigh by Jacqueline Dumas. A new
The Girl Wants To edited by Lynn Crosbie. An novel, set in Spain, is about grief, loneliness, friend-
astonishing new collection of work predominantly ship and the nature of love, personal responsibility
by young women writers. This volume contains and power. $14.95 pb, 1-895618-21-5. 620 Duchess
erotica, cartoons, drawings, poetry, plays and even St., Saskatoon SK S7K OR1. IN.
song lyrics. $19.95 pb, 0-88910-462-X.
Good Bones is by Margaret Atwood. Need I say Formac
more? $9.95 pb, 0- 88910-431-X. A Victorian Lady’s Album edited by Della
Two by Duras: The Slut of the Normandy Stanley. This beautiful book tells the story of a sen-
Coast & The Atlantic Man. $9.95 pb, 0- 88910-441- sitive, observant young Victorian woman and the
7.M 50 BPriSnceR Ar th u1r BAve5. S.u ite I10N7, T.o ro nt:o ONT world in which she lived. $24.95 cl, 0-88789-231-1.
5502 Atlantic St., Halifax NS B3H 1G4. IN.
Harbour Publishing
Grace by S.P. Lewis is the biography of Grace
Douglas & MclIntyre Woodsworth MacInnes. She was British Columbia’s
On the Edge by Lindalee Tracey. This is a jour- first woman Member of Parliament and the found-
ney into the heart of poverty in Canada by an ing mother of the New Democrat party. She fought
award-winning film writer, director and journalist. tirelessly for the rights of women, consumers and
$16.95 pb, 1-55054-126-9. low-income Canadians. Lewis is a radio news
Bloodlines by Myrna Kostash, a second genera- reporter who founded the environment news ser-
tion Ukrainian-Canadian, is the story of the vice. $32.95 cl 1-55017-094-5.
author's re-discovery of her Eastern European
roots. $26.95 cl, 1-55054-110-2.
The Emily Carr Omnibus, with an introduction
by Doris Shadbolt, is the first complete collection of all
of Carr's writings under one cover. $45 cl, 1-55054- Some Become Flowers: Living With the Dying
031-9. 1615 Venables St., Vancouver BC V5L 2HI. IN. at Home by Sharon Brown is the story of her moth-
er's death. It conveys Sharon and her two young
Fifth House daughters’ last days at home with Betty, the dying
Firing the Heather, the Life and Times of woman. $14.95 pb, 1-55017-087-2. Box 219, Madeira
Nellie McClung by Marilyn Davis and Mary Park BC VON 2H0. IN.
59
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:18 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Lorimer Publishing Bestsellers ..…. Continued from page 58
Canadian Women’s Issues, Volume II. Covers
the last twenty-five years and is part of a two vol- and like all great stories of survival, no matter what
ume collection of essays and documents detailing tragedies and horrors are encountered.along the
the women’s movement and issues in Canada. way, it is an uplifting book.
$39.95 cl, 1-55028-428-2; $24.95 pb, -429-0. Egerton Intimacy & Solitude Self-Therapy Book, £7.99.
Ryerson Memorial Building, 35 Britain St., Toronto The follow-up to the immensely successful Intimacy
ONT MS5A 1R7. IN. & Solitude.
Women Who Run With the Wolves, Clarissa
Pinkola Estes, £9.99. Subtitled ‘Contacting the Power
Polestar Press of the Wild Woman’ this book has been massively
The Alaska Highway Two-step by Caroline popular on both sides of the Atlantic. The author
Woodward. I don’t want to muscle into Nan shows how feminine wildness is both a positive and
Cinnater’s territory, but just in case she missed this a necessary quality for women to carry and cultivate.
sweet little mystery from Polestar... For anyone’s Backlash, Susan Faludi, £6.99. This international
who traveled the “Highway” or owned a VW bestseller from Pulitzer Prize-winning journalist
camper van and wanted to travel the highway — Susan Faludi charts the backlash against women and
this book’s for you. The story is engaging, the char- fights back against the anti-feminists who would
acters compelling and it was all I could do not to have us believe either everything is our fault — or
take the book and jump in my van and drive about that everything is fine and we can shut up now.
half-way through this story. Evocative. $14.95 pb, 0- Under the Southern Cross, Clair McNab, £6.99.
919591-72-8. It has been a great year for Silver Moon Books. We
published six books — the most we have ever
brought out in one year. This passionate romance
set against the majestic landscape of Australia from
the hugely popular Claire McNab just romped off
Imperfect Moments, by Candis Graham, is her the shelves.
second collection of stories. You'll want this fine Daughters of the House, Michele Roberts,
sequel. $14.95 pb, 0-919591-47-7. £5.99. Shortlisted for the 1992 Booker Prize and
The Last Chance Cafe by Anita Roberts. Anita winner of the WH Smith Literary Award, this stun-
works as a self-defense instructor in Vancouver and this ning novel from Michele Roberts investigates
is her first collection of short stories. $14.95 pb, 0-919591- secrets and lies that linger in the very walls of the
80-9. 2758 Charles St., Vancouver BC V5K 3A7. IN. solid, old Normandy house in which Therese and
Leonie grow up after the war.
Talon Books Revolution From Within, A Book of Self-
The Angel of Solitude by Marie-Claire Blais. A Esteem, Gloria Steinem, £5.99. Revealing her own
translation from the French about the lives of eight long quest for self-esteem, she explores the nature
young lesbians. $14.95 pb, 0-88922-337-8. 201-1019 E of this quality, showing how crippling a lack of it
Cordova, Vancouver BC V6A 1M8. IN. can be, and how recapturing it can transform lives.
The Secret History, Donna Tartt, £5.99. It is
Dorothy Seaton is a former international-calibre almost impossible to believe that this is a first
fencer. She is currently finishing her Ph.D in Literary novel. Hypnotic, powerful and gripping to the last
Criticism at the University of British Columbia, having page, it is a real treat. I recommend missing out the
received her Master's at the University of Queensland in Epilogue: the book stands without it.
Brisbane, Australia. Written on the Body, Jeanette Winterson, £4.99.
Jana Williams has just finished work on her third Written on the Body is a love story, the narrator a
novel, Diamond Runners. She and Dorothy Seaton are vulnerable and subversive Lothario, gender unde-
currently collaborating on a lesbian screenplay. O clared. A fine novel from this controversial writer. O
January 1994 60
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:18 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsS
L
So travel is the theme, is it? Fantasy and science fiti that says “Terrans Stay Home” — does anyone
fiction are full of journeys, but I can’t think of many have current word on the political situation there?
that provide the nitty-gritty info, like train sched-
ules, plane fares, good places to eat and stay and Where women readers and writers of f/sf gath-
basic phrases in the native tongue. er, the subject of cover art is sure to come up, close-
On the other hand... of the books mentioned ly followed by its less flamboyant cousin, back-
below: Dancing Jack features a riverboat journey cover copy. J.F. Rivkin, author of the sword-and-
and a couple of arduous overland hikes, and Better sorcery series that started with Silverglass, used to
in the Dark will be handy if you're planning a visit lead panel discussions on the subject. The cover of
to 10th century Saxony, and An Eye for Dark Silverglass was a classic big-haired, big-breasted,
Places will take you through another looking-glass. scantily clad female swordswoman; J.F.’s cartoon
parody appeared in these pages a year or so ago.
Almost a decade ago, artist Hannah Shapero
y wrote about the subtler stereotypes that reigned on
f/sf book covers, e.g., blue-eyed blondes were frail,
Here are a few essentials for an f and sf travel blondes with brown eyes were strong, most
section, in no particular order: Ursula K. Le Guin’s brunettes were villains, and all redheads were psy-
Always Coming Home (with recipes and songs chic. All were inevitably of European descent.
and much information about local customs) and Jacqueline Gross of Mama Bears Bookstore in
The Left Hand of Darkness (sledge pulling in Oakland, California forwarded a copy of the letter
Winter); James Tiptree Jr.'s Brightness Falls from she wrote to Penguin in October 1993 about the
the Air (a package tour of epic proportions); cover of Emily Devenport’s Larissa, on which a
Eleanor Arnason’s A Woman of the Iron People main character clearly described as “a black girl”
(more ecologically sensitive travel); Suzy McKee was depicted in the cover art as white. Good idea!
Charnas’ Walk to the End of the World (if running And it is the publisher you should write to, not the
for your life can be called tourism); Ellen Kushner’s author. Only authors with mega-clout get control
Thomas the Rhymer (did he ever-return?); Tanya over their covers; most count themselves lucky to
Huff's The Fire’s Stone (traveling with a drunk, a be consulted at all.
thief, and a petulant wizard can broaden your hori-
zons); Melissa Scott's Dreamships (leave the pilot- ASR
ing to me); Pilar de Ovalle’s Calabrinia Falling (see
the kingdom before you take it over); and Connie
Willis’ Doomsday Book (an educational tour of the Cover art and copy is chosen primarily to sell
14th century). the book, not to illustrate or describe the text.
That should whet the appetite. By the way, I've Reaching a book’s audience(s) seems to be sec-
seen in my real-time travels several stickers advising ondary. Characters who are black, gay, lesbian, etc.,
“Visit Scenic Darkover,” sometimes followed by graf- etc., are widely believed to limit, rather than
Volume 16 Number 5 61
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:18 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsexpand, a book’s audience. I just pulled off the shelf AEGINA PRESS
the hardcover copy of Maureen F. McHugh’s Provoking the Power, by Lynn Parkin
Tiptree and Lammy award-winning China Atkinson. This parable of economic avarice and
Mountain Zhang. Could you guess from the dust ecological threat features characters with.such alle-
jacket that the title character is homosexual? Yes, gorical names as Magnificent Moneyed and Freda
perhaps — by correctly interpreting the reference to Roam. Unfortunately, the writing rarely rises to the
“decadent double lives.” The accompanying press occasion, a fatal flaw when tackling such an epic
release was comparatively explicit, comparing the theme. $10 pb, 1-56002-157-8. Aegina Press, 59 Oak
book to “the best works of Samuel R. Delany,” a Lane, Spring Valley, Huntington, WV 25704.
dead giveaway.
Of course, you have to know that Delany is out, Aat
gay, and a master explorer of sexual politics and
economics.
So anyone looking for feminist content or les- BALLANTINE BOOKS
bian characters learns to read between the lines. The Vampire Companion, by Katherine
Blurbs by, or comparisons to the work of, Marion Ramsland. I know that Anne Rice's Vampire
Zimmer Bradley, Ursula K. Le Guin (especially The Chronicles has many feminist fans — whether they
Left Hand of Darkness), Elizabeth A. Lynn or Joanna fix their cravings in feminist bookstores is another
Russ, among others, are good clues. question. This is “the official guide” and concor-
Ai bd ia on gc re a p t ho e r T . h $e 2 9C .9h 5r o cn ]i ,c l e 0s -, 3 4 w 5-r 3i 7t 9te 2n 2- 5b .y Anne Rice’s
BALLANTINE/DEL REY
Chimera, by Mary Rosenblum. A dazzling sec-
There are encouraging signs that things are ond novel that draws into the virtual reality (VR)
changing. Covers are, as a whole, far less ludicrous nets several compelling, complex characters: Jewel
than they used to be. The cover copy for Flynn Martina, haunted by her dirt-poor past and deter-
Connolly's The Rising of the Moon (Del Rey) is mined to make it as a deal broker on the nets;
explicit about the book’s feminist themes. And David Chen, who chose his VR art over family priv-
quotes from Feminist Bookstore News and Lambda ilege; David’s self-destructive artist lover, Flander;
Book Report are sometimes found on covers, press Susana, a brilliant adolescent VR hacker, and more.
releases, or ads for mainstream f/sf titles. Engrossing, principled, compassionate, vivid — a
So keep writing to the publishers. Let them hell of a book ($4.99, 0-345-38528-4). While you're at
know why their covers don't work with your cus- it, pick up Rosenblum’s first novel, Drylands, set in
tomers. And meanwhile continue to do what inde- a 21st century U.S. where drought is the primary
pendent booksellers do best: help your readers find political reality. Here, too, the focus is on individu-
books they will like, in spite of those covers. als who must choose between power and justice,
honesty and fear ($4.50, 0-345-38038-X).
Okay, so it’s fact, not fiction, and this next The Persistence of Memory, by Karen Ripley.
author is a guy, but if you're as intrigued as I by the This begins The Slow World trilogy, in which a
realities and implications of computer technology, young horsewoman has disturbing memories of
not to mention new threats to freedom of communi- coming from another world. It has a YA feel to it
cation, you might want to pick up Bruce Sterling’s and owes as much to the western as to f/sf. $4.99,
The Hacker Crackdown: Law and Disorder on the 0-345-38120-3.
Electronic Frontier, just released in paperback.
Sterling is an eminent novelist and editor closely BANTAM/SPECTRA
associated with cyberpunk (hi-tech sf with an atti- Daggerspell, by Katharine Kerr. A revised edi-
tude). $5.99, 0-553-56370-X, Bantam. tion of the first of Kerr’s popular Deverry novels,
62
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:18 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsamong the best series to come out of fantasy’s TOR BOOKS
broad Celtic/medieval territory. A key character is Better in the Dark, by Chelsea Quinn Yarbro.
Jill, the magically gifted daughter of a mercenary. This newest novel about Count Saint-Germain finds
Good stuff. $5.50, 0-553-56521-4. the charismatic vampire shipwrecked on the coast
of 10th century Saxony and saved by Ranegonda,
CIRCLET PRESS left guardian of her brother’s fortress when he
SexMagick, ed. by Cecilia Tan. S. N. (Shariann) turned monk. $23.95 cl, 0-312-85504-4.
Lewitt’s “Pipe Dreams” is hands-down the best Snow White and Rose Red, by Patricia C. Wrede.
written of these half-dozen tales by “women conjur- Reprint (with new ISBN) of a fine retelling of the clas-
ing erotic fantasy,” but for some reason awkward sic fairy tale, set in Elizabethan England where traf-
language rarely stands in the way of a turn-on. ficking with faerie might attract a charge of witch-
Each describes a ritual of some sort, fertile ground craft. There's more substance to this than the “roman-
for sexual energy. Keep ‘em coming, Circlet! $5.95, tic and charming” cover blurb suggests and, like oth-
0-9633970-4-4. Circlet Press, P.O. Box 15143, Boston ers in Terri Windling’s fairy tale series (like Pamela
MA 02215, or from Inland. Dean’s Tam Lin and Kara Dalkey’s The Nightengale),
well worth carrying. $4.99, 0-812-53497-2.
DAW BOOKS Finder, by Emma Bull. If I could push the dead-
Dancing Jack, by Laurie J. Marks. In a land bro- line back a week, I'd drop everything and read this,
ken by plague, the farmer Ash searches for her lost Emma Bull's fourth novel. Her first, War for the Oaks,
kin and encounters a tightening circle of ghosts is already a classic; the third, Bone Dance, may well
from her own buried past. The focus here is not on become so. The editors describe this as “a terrific
the kings, queens, and rebels but on the folk caught story that manages in the process to be an urban
up in their plans. Most of the major characters are fantasy, a police procedural, a bildungsroman, and a
women, and a strong undercurrent is Ash’s long- medical thriller, with a showstopper of an ending.”
unrequited relationship with steamboat pilot, Rys. Set in Bordertown, on the edge of Fairie, this is the
AÀ fine adventure with memorable characters, and a tale of a young man with a gift for finding things
must-carry for feminist bookstores. Marks wrote and a (female) cop who needs his help on a case.
the Children of Triad trilogy (Delan the Mislaid, The More later! $21.95 cl, 0-312-85418-8, Feb. o
Moonbane Mage, and Ara’s Field), which deals with
difference, intolerance, and a race of ungendered Writing Wanted ... Continued from page 54
beings. $4.99, 0-88677-578-7. as well as workshops, readings, panel discussions,
etc. The organizers are also accepting proposals for
workshops and panels, poetry, journal excerpts and
y other writing for readings. Spiral Arts is a multi-
cultural, artist-run organization dedicated to bring-
LITTLE, BROWN ing experimental art to public spaces and non-tradi-
An Eye for Dark Places, by Norma Marder. In a tional audiences. Contact: Spiral Arts, PO Box
future England, changed yet recognizable, Sephony 20119, Columbus Circle Station, New York NY
Berg-Benson confronts a “feminine mystique” sort 10023 or call Nicole Demerin at 718-721-1434.
of dilemma: if her life is so fine, why does she feel
empty, restless, and tired? And why does she see The Theater Offensive is a queer theater pro-
those strange hands that her husband can’t? Like duction company in Boston and is presenting a
her mythic near-namesake, Sephony/’s life is series of performance works by a Latino/Latina
changed by a journey into an unexpected under- queers. They are seeking queer Latino/Latina
world. Though set in the future and published in Playwrights and Performers. For more information
1993, this well-written first novel is close kin to The contact: José Fernandez or Abe Rybeck at The
Women’s Room and similarly heterosexual in its Theater Offensive, Boston Center for the Arts, 539
assumptions. $19.95 cl, 0-316-47302-2. Tremont St. #408, Boston MA 02116. ©
63
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:18 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
GIRLFRIEND NUMBER ONE
Girlfriend Number One:
Lesbian Life in the 90s
edited by Robin Stevens
Red Dora’s Bearded Lady Café in San
Francisco is where the postmodern meets the
feminist, where Pop Tarts mingle with pesto
eggs, and the cultural influences are as likely
Charlie’s Angels and Joan Didion as Audre
Lorde and Susie Bright.
Red Dora's is also a performance space
where writers and humorists have found enthu-
siastic audiences of like-minded girlfriends
raised on feminism, television and bad music.
These girlfriends are angry enough to change
“Girlfriend Number One the world and smart enough to have fun in the
rips the íc o vAe r sl a ovfifs h mlye a nitllimuset..r.ated gift book in stores
lesbian chic to reveal for Valentine's Day, Girlfriend Number One is
unchecked dyke reality...” a night out at Red Dora's, capturing that grrrl
—SUSIE BRIGHT slacker world in stories, cartoons and graphics.
Ur Carla Tomaso A Mary Wings A Erika Lopez
i Until I read Joan Hilty A Masha Gessen A Achy Obejas
Girlfriend Number One Kris Kovick A Mabel Maney A Robin Stevens
I didn’t know l'd ever been
on a lesbian date— ISBN: 0-939416-80-8 $12.95
»” 7 x 10; 160 pages
honest honest honest!!! FESRUARY, i994
— JANE DELYNN Call Felice Newman for your reading copy.
(412) 937-1555
CLEIS PRESS
January 1994 64 Volume 16 Number 5
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:18 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsBy Roz Warren will probably sell well; we cat people just can't seem
to get enough of this stuff. $6.95, 0-8118-0237-X,
On the subject of travel, there’s Lisa and Chronicle Books.
Michael Cader’s But I Wouldn’t Want To Live About as far away from silly kitty toons as you
There! Wicked Wisdom From Seasoned Travelers, can get is John Callahan’s fourth collection of single
a lively collection of travel quotes by folks like panel cartoons about politics, life, organized religion,
Erma Bombeck who says, “There is nothing more and disability. In The Night They Say Was Made
miserable in this world than to arrive in paradise for Love, Callahan makes fun of everything from
looking like your passport picture,” and Dave
Barry who says, “A hundred years ago it could take PLUL I
you the better part of a year to get from New York GASP ONE GUY COULD EV
to California; whereas today, because of equipment
problems at O'Hare [Airport], you can’t get there at MAKE PEOPLE BURST
all.” $12.95, 1-56138-280-9, Running Press. INTO FLAME Sİ,
Women humorists Alison Power and Meredith
Anthony have teamed up with male humorists Larry
Light and Richard Cagan to produce 101 Reasons
Why We're Doomed, a surprisingly politiċal “list
book” detailing what's wrong with contemporary
life. It includes satire on socio-political realities like
funding for medical research and the Tailhook scan-
dal: “Medical research on AIDS, M.S. and cancer
depends primarily on the fund-raising skills of
Elizabeth Taylor, Jerry Lewis and Ronald McDonald”
and “The U.S. Military overwhelmingly feels that gay
recruits would endanger its macho culture — the
same culture that brought us Tailhook...” The
authors also get in a good swipe at Linda McCartney.
She’s “permitted to sing without fear before mil-
lions,” the authors note, “while Salman Rushdie
would be blown away if he left his safe house for a
Slurpee.” $7.50, 0-380-77188-8, Avon Books. weapons in elementary schools (A teacher asks her
If you were hoping this season would bring us class “Who knows George Washington’s birthday?
yet another cat humor book, you're in luck. Catmas Let's see a show of guns!”) to feminist bookstores
Carols, written by Laurie Louglin and illustrated by (“This is a feminist bookstore!” a grim-faced cashier
Amy Ross is a charming collection of kitty ditties informs a customer. “There is no humor section!”). Is
that rewrites traditional Christmas carols so that he laughing with us or laughing at us? You decide...
they're feline centered (“Oh come all ye furful...”). It $9, 0-688-126480-0, William Morrow.
Volume 16 Number 5
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:18 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Available in November Hothead Paisan: Homicidal Lesbian Terrorist
($12.95, 0-939416-73-5, Cleis) is already in second
printing(!) so be sure to stock enough copies of the
12th Hothead ‘Zine ($3.50, Giant Ass, distributed
THE by Inland) for all Hothead’s new (and old) fans.
A
3
m
ISLAND Michael Willhoite’s Members of the Tribe:
Caricatures of Gay Men and Lesbians is a stun-
ning collection of Willhoite’s enchanting line draw-
ings of men and women of interest to the gay and
lesbian community, enhanced by the artist's well ,
informed and often quite wicked prose descrip-
tions. Willhoite’s weekly caricature is one of many
good reasons to read The Washington Blade. $24.95,
c], 1-55583-238-5, Alyson.
Cartoonist Carol Lay, featured in the Twisted
Za co llVectAionA of stories by, S Ni ost we ,r Ea nn dt sh vo il lo leg y c, o nf tin aia nll sy a h a ws e ah lte hr oo fw n L a c yo ’sll e c ht ii po n a. nd
darkly comic multi-panel work. $9.95, 0-87816-235-6.
Finally, at the very top of the list of terrific new
humor books is Molly Ivin’s second collection of
essays about politics and popular culture, Nothin’
But Good Times Ahead. How can you not love a
writer who calls Camille Paglia “a crassly egocen-
tric, raving twit”? And can back up this assertion
with a beautifully written, well-researched and
extremely funny essay? Ivins also covers George
Bush “(the Education President who spent more on
Exotic and erotic stories military bonds than on Head Start programs),”
book tours, “(The extent to which the entire process
of women on the sexual is humiliating depends on one’s sensitivity.”) and
fringes of modern life, m toee t i on ng e t h oe f q u tee hn o so ef E an ng il mand a t r(“ oIt n iw ca s f l iik ge u rta el sk i n ag t
original yet strangely Disneyland.”). $23, 0-679- 41915-2, Random House.
reminiscent of the work of The advice Ivins leaves her readers with is worth
repeating here: “Hang in there, keep fightin’ for free-
Jean Rhys, dom, raise more hell, and don’t forget to laugh, too.”
19th Century British writer Roz Warren is the editor of Women’s Glib,
$9.95 Women’s Glibber, Kitty Libber, Mothers! (Cartoons
176 p. sF b uy pc oW mo inm ge n G), l i bW quh ia pt s : i s F uT nh ni ys T Wh oin rdg s C ba yll e d F u nSe nx y? Wan od m et nhe
paperback (all from Crossing Press). She is also the founder of Laugh
CIS lB otN h: e s1 p- i8 n7 8 F53 ev3 e-1 r0 - PX ress N fL le ii mn ne i es n i s P t ar t e c s as r. B t o oIf o x n y o s 2lu i 5' dd 9e , l si k h Be o w a lR a o a z t C t y yo o nu p r wr e s ys te o dn r ,t e , h Ppe Ar le a c s er 1 o 9w d 0rd 0o- pp 4 l .e ha s e ©i rn g a
January 1994 66 Volume 16 Number 5
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:18 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsBy Tee A. Corinne ductions and commentary including “African
American Quiltmaking Traditions: Some
I've read recently about how frequently rich Assumptions Reviewed,” “Rocky Road to Kansas,”
lovers played major roles in the early careers of gay and “Kansas Quilting Groups: Surviving the
male artists. I wish that supporting women’s art Pressures of Change.” $22.50 pb, 0-7006-0585-1; $40
could become more fashionable, glamorous, and cl, 0-7006-0584-3.
essential to individual and cultural well being. It’s Tina Modotti: Photographer and Revolutionary
coming, but oh, so slowly! by Margaret Hooks is the long awaited biography of
However, some exceptional books have arrived a fascinating and talented woman. Modotti (1896-
lately, so at least some publishers are putting their 1942) had many lovers, one of whom, Edward
money and their vision to work for us. Weston, taught her to use a camera. She was
involved in radical politics, framed for the murder
Panoramas of the Far East, photographs by Lois of a lover, forced into exile, and worked undercover
Conner, is the newest in the “photographers at against fascism in Europe. $40 cl, 0-04-440879-X.
work” series which is remarkably gender balanced. Librarians will be especially interested in the
Conner, born in 1951, uses an odd, elongated for- serious treatment given Irene Rice Pereira: Her
mat to create images of exceptional beauty. Her
photos of landscapes, city scenes, and rural
dwellings all have a sense of magic about them.
They are contemplative and complex at the same
time. $15.95 pb, 1-56098-331-0, Smithsonian
Institute Press.
Red Women on the Silver Screen: Soviet
Women and Cinema from the Beginning to the
End of the Communist Era, ed. by Lynne Attwood,
is a lucid, engaging study which includes a lively
overview of the period followed by eight essays
including “The Hydra of the Soviet Cinema: The
Metamorphoses of the Soviet Film Heroine,” “The
Mythologization of Soviet Woman,” and “From
Film School to Film Studio: Women and
Cinematography in the Era of Perestroika.” $24.95
Pb, 0-04-440561-8, HarperSanFrancisco.
I do try to keep my enthusiasm for quilt history
books in check, but Kansas Quilts & Quilters by
Brackman, Chinn, Davis, Thompson, Farley, and i
Hornback is a treasure of photographs, quilt repro- Red Women of the Silver Screen, ed. by Lynn Atwood
67
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:18 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Paintings and Philosophy by Karen A. Bearor (2 Vogel, details the work of an American “primitive”
appendices and 50 pages of notes in a 324 page who started painting late in life and left images of
book). Pereira (1902-1971) was an abstract artist great warmth and charm ($14 cl, no ISBN, #100210).
active in the NY art world of the 40s and 50s whose All from the Amon Carter Museum, POB 2365, Fort
work reflects her interest in the theories of Carl Jung. Worth, TX 76113-2365.
$34.95 c], 0-292-73858-7, University of Texas Press. The University of Washington Press has a num-
Women’s Work: Textile Art from the Bauhaus ber of titles of interest to women booksellers includ-
by Sigrid Wrotman Weltge is a handsome and infor- ing: Reflections of the Weaver’s World by Ann
mative volume which focuses on the women artisans Lane Hedlund with photos of Navajo weavers and
of the innovative German school of design called the their work ($29.95 pb, 0-295-97231-9); Emily Carr by
Bauhaus (1919-1933). $40 cl, 0-8118-0466-6. Doris Shadbolt about the provocative Canadian
spinster landscape painter, 1871-1945 ($19.95 pb, 0-
295-97003-0); After Ninety, Imogen Cunningham’s ,
remarkable images of people over ninety, pho-
tographed when she was over ninety herself ($19.95
pb, 0-295-95673-9); Alma Lavenson, Photographs by
Susan Ehrens which evoke a sense of “other places,
other times” by a West Coast photographer, 1897-
1989 ($24.95 pb, 0-8263-1238-1 and $50 cl, 0-8263-
1237-3); and The World of Frida Kahlo, The Blue
House, ed. by Erika Billeter ($40, 0-295-97328-5).
Clyde Connell: The Art and Life of a
Louisiana Woman by Charlotte Moser is a beauti-
fully illustrated book about the unusual sculptures
constructed by a Southern “lady” who became a
civil rights activist in the 1950s and turned to sculp-
ture in her sixties ($17.95 pb, 0-292-71141-7,
From The World of Frida Kahlo University of Texas Press). ©
Another exceptional (and expensive) book is
Glasgow Girls: Women in Art and Design 1880- Hothead Chronicles... Continued from page 44
1920, ed. by Jude Burkhauser, motivational and house they will move into in January — a few walls
inspirational as well as beautifully designed and down, and they'll have much more square footage,
filled with interesting information about a fertile much more light, and stable mortgage payments.
period in the history of Art Nouveau. $60 ci, 0- The best thing is its just behind the original store.
86241-332-2X. Dist. by Red Ochre Press, 705 After stuffing just a few more books in my suit-
Adriatic Ave., N. Cape May, N.J. 08204. case (the new Adrienne Rich, the latest Crescent
Not new, but available, reasonably priced, and Dragonwagon cookbook, The Dairy Hollow House Soup
interesting, are four volumes from the Amon Carter & Bread Cookbook), I blaze a trail home to sort through
Museum. Of Night & Day by Nell Dorr, quotes by what I've learned this fall: press releases don’t work if
men and women with graceful, mysterious pho- they aren't sent out, maniacal tours without publicity
tographs ($10 cl, no ISBN, #702640). Carlotta don’t necessarily sell books, good industry press is
Corpron: Designer with Light contains elegant, okay but consumer press is better, the Second and
beautiful images of plant forms, shells, buildings, Third Waves are converging, and feminist bookstores
and patterns of light ($9.95 pb, 0-292-71065-8). are (surprise!) the soul of our movement. Next tour
Liliane De Cock produced stark photographs of stops: Lansing MI and Los Angeles in mid-winter.
western landscapes and buildings ($7.95 pb, 0- Progress Report: Seventeen stores down. Eighty-
87100-038-5). Aunt Clara, The Paintings of Clara thNree o tov geo. m Fugitbivee Irnfo rm a2tio4n :or d er5s a9s 7of0. O
McDonald Williamson by Donald and Margaret
January 1994 68
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:18 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms3 MYS
By Nan Cinnater a nifty series with a generally progressive/New
Now Voyager, Provincetown, Mass. Age slant and lots of herbal lore worked in.
In the now-it-can-be-told department, Fawcett
Do you all know about Sisters in Crime, the has let us know that A.J. Orde, author of a series
women mystery writers’ organization? They do a about interior designer Jason Lynx, is also BJ.
nice job of promoting books by their members and Oliphant, author of the Shirley McClintock myster-
women’s mysteries in general. (Yes, they did lend ies. And most impressive, she’s really SF wonder-
their name and imprimatur to the anthology series meister Sheri S. Tepper! This is the chief reason to
edited by Michelle Wallace, now on volume 5: get Death for Old Time’s Sake by A.J. Orde, third
Sisters in Crime 5, $4.99, 0-425-13506-3, Berkley). in a series begun with Death and the Dog Walker.
They also publish a semi-annual pamphlet listing This one involves the murder of an anti-abortion
members’ books in print and forthcoming books. activist, so it may be of topical interest as well.
The Fall 1993 edition is 34 pages long — a useful $4.50, 0-449-22193-8, Fawcett.
resource. The publicity committee will send you the
first copy free; others are available at $2 each with
discounts for larger orders. Apparently bookstores,
libraries and reviewers can get on the publicity list
simply by contacting: Rowan Mountain Literary
Associates, P.O. Box 10111, Blacksburg VA 24062-
10111; 703-961-3315.
If you have a serious mystery section, it’s proba-
bly worth it to get on the list. We find that member- Mysterious Press is re-issuing Ellis Peters’
authors make good use of it. In addition to the medieval mysteries featuring Brother Cadfael; and
books-in-print pamphlet, we receive lots of publica- the very first in the series is A Morbid Taste for
tion announcements for mysteries (especially Bones ($4.99, 0-446-40015-7, Feb.), followed by One
paperback originals and first mysteries) that we Corpse Too Many ($5.50, 0-446-40051-3, March). A
might otherwise miss. new Brother Cadfael mystery also appears in paper
Sisters in Crime also puts out a fun poster/map in March: The Holy Thief ($5.50, 0-446-40363-6). If
of the U.S. that shows where members’ fictional you have medieval mystery fans, you may want to
detectives are located. You'll find Jane Lawless in pick up Death and the Chapman by Kate Sedley.
Minneapolis and Pam Nilsen in Seattle, for instance. This is the first in a series ($4.50, 0-06-104319-2,
Thať's available for $5 from the same address. April, Harper). The second, The Plymouth Cloak,
A couple of issues back, I wrote that the first will be coming in paper from Harper this summer,
novel featuring herbalist China Bayles would be and the third, The Weaver’s Tale is due from St.
coming “soon” in paper and I finally have details: Martin’s in April. The hero, Roger the Chapman, is
Thyme of Death by Susan Wittig Albert ($4.99, 0- a young peddler who travels around fifteenth cen-
425-14098-9, Feb., Berkley). This is the beginning of tury England. Sedley is an English medieval schol-
69
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:18 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsar, so we can assume she gets her history right cozy, and they're written by a forty-year newspaper
($20.95, 0-312-10474-X). veteran from Atlanta ($4.50, 0-06-109190-1, Harper).
Readers prize Peters for her elegant writing as Tales of Obsession gives no editor's credit that
much as for her attention to history. Therefore, I can find, but it includes stories of psychological
finding a match for Brother Cadfael is difficult. I suspense from P.D. James, Ruth Rendel], Joan Hess,
was hoping to find Brother C.’s match in Sister Patricia Highsmith (whose names all appear on the
Frevisse, the fifteenth-century English nun in cover), and Nancy Pickard, as well as some men.
Margaret Frazer's The Outlaw’s Tale ($4.50 0-515- Rendell and Highsmith are perhaps the all-time top
11335-2, Feb.),The Novice’s Tale ($4.50, 0-515- writers of this sub-genre, and the others are no
10900-2, Jove) and The Servanťs Tale. I was some- slouches. Should be great. $4.99, 0-451-17998-6,
what disappointed. Still, it’s high time for a Feb., Signet.
medieval series featuring a woman, and Sister Lydia Adamson, who has perpetrated one of the
Frevisse will have to do until a more inspired sleuth cute cat series (Cat of a Different Color, et al.), is begin- ,
comes along. ning a new series about a woman vet in midwestern
farm country. The first title in the series is Dr.
Nightingale Comes Home. Literary value aside, if
the big-eared, sly-eyed goat on the cover doesn’t sell
B this book, I'll eat it. $3.99, 0-451-17872-6, Feb., Signet.
March brings the latest Carlotta Carlyle mystery
in paper: Snapshot by Linda Barnes, packaged with
Like Peters, the two women who comprise the impressive cover blurbs from the N.Y. Times and
writing team known as Emma Lathen are the other papers, and a new Sue Grafton. Here Carlotta
acknowledged masters of their specialty — in this has two cases involving little girls, one of whom is
case, financial mysteries. Lathen’s sly wit enlivens her “little sister,” Paolina. $4.99, 0-440-21220-0, Dell.
the otherwise dull world of white men in suits, and Also in March, there's Heading Uptown by
the series has devoted fans. In East is East Wall St. Marissa Piesman, third in a comic series about a
wiz John Putnam Thatcher investigates a murder in thirty-something, single, Jewish, Legal Services
Japan ($4.99, 0-06-104296-X, March, Harper). attorney who's hard to dislike, in spite of the politi-
Meanwhile, Otto Penzler Books is re-issuing the cally incorrect pitfalls looming all around her.
very first Thatcher mystery, Banking on Death Mostly Piesman manages to avoid them, turning
($6.95,1-883402-06-9). her heroine's ambivalence about weight, for
If you have room to carry the classics (e.g., instance, into moderately feminist insights into thin
Christie), then you should consider carrying the obsession. The mother is a great character, and
Inspector Alleyn mysteries by Ngaio Marsh. (Ngaio there are uncannily accurate observations about the
is pronounced to rhyme with high-ho; the “g” is ways New York is different from any other place. If
silent). They’ve just been featured on the PBS Woody Allen were a woman, he might write like
Mystery Series, and they're among the best of the this. $4.99, 0-440-21161-1, Dell.
golden age British whodunits. Alleyn’s wife, a 0
strong-minded painter named Troy, is a thoroughly
modern, Thirties-style feminist. She’s featured
prominently in Final Curtain ($3.50, 0-515-08757-2,
Jove, Jan.).
In February we'll have a second paperback from ù
Celestine Sibley, author of Ah, Sweet Mystery, fea- Sacred Ground by Mercedes Lackey is a hard
turing widowed Atlanta reporter Kate Mulcay call, as it could very easily be the kind of rip-off of
($4.50, 0-06-109083-2, Harper). In Straight As an Native American spiritual traditions that Native
Arrow Kate visits an island off the coast of Florida women have been protesting. (I haven’t read an
to help out an old friend. These are attractively Continued on Page 90
70
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:18 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Women’s Music
By Cathy Andrews and it may not appeal to the taste of those responsi-
Goldenrod Distribution /Lansing MI ble for stocking music. There is a large and ever
growing fan base that is hungry for everything
These new releases may help keep the winter from this talented young woman, however. Her
doldrums away. newest release is made up of 15 songs from her first
Hot Corn in the Fire/Casselberry-Dupree. two albums, re-recorded in her current “in concert”
After a seven year wait, the second album from this style. Requests from her fans prompted this record-
fabulous duo is at the manufacturing stage and ing. Righteous 5; Tape & CD
should be ready very early in ‘94. One of the best
things about C-D is their versatility, and the ease
with which they perform songs from a variety of
styles. The styles on the new album include
African, reggae, folk, gospel, and more. There may
be two kinds of market for this album: their long-
time fans, who have maintained their enthusiasm
while waiting for a new release, and listeners who
came to women’s music after City Down had
peaked. Ladyslipper 204; Tape & CD
Opera For The Masses/The Derivative Duo.
This Seattle-based duo has turned opera on its ear
and given us unabashedly lesbian and feminist par-
odies. Most are tunes that even non-opera lovers
will recognize, and the subject matter covers a wide
spectrum. Who might have imagined The Toreador Driver/Ferron. A new release from Ferron is
Song from Bizet’s Carmen turned into an Ode to always good news, especially when it will be avail-
Grethe Cammermeyer? Others include Coming Out able at “normal” wholesale pricing. Driver holds
Mozart, PMS Aria, and the Barbie Doll Song. This much promise, filled with ten songs exploring
release is building a promising sales pattern in change and commitment and meaning, all spun as
women’s and gay/lesbian stores (as well as opera part of the web of the universe that is uniquely
society gift shops). Derivative Duo 101; Tape & CD Ferron’s. Plans are being laid for a big promo push,
Like I Said/Ani DiFranco. There's a phenome- including an announcement to her huge mailing
non building in the person of Ani DiFranco. Her list. This release is definitely due in the first quarter
music is thrilling an audience that is primarily of 94, and may be ready as early as January.
young and radical, the same crowd that women’s Cherrywood 8; Tape & CD
music producers across the country are bemoaning Borderlands /Libana. While many listeners are
for their lack of interest in the “usual” performers. familiar with the popular chant/circle song albums
Ani's music may be a bit intense for regular instore from Libana (A Circle Is Cast and Fire Within), fewer
play in the peaceful confines of most bookstores, are familiar with the “world music” this group per-
71
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:18 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsforms. In all cases, their music revolves around News Updates
women’s music in perhaps its oldest sense: music
that was sung to accompany work, to celebrate rites The release of the movie “Even Cowgirls Get
of passage, to carry a political and often subversive The Blues” has been delayed until this spring, but
message. This tradition of music sung only by the soundtrack was released in early November.
women, with and for other women, often includes Given that it was written by k.d. lang and longtime
harmonic patterns and rhythms that are unfamiliar collaborator Ben Mink, and given that k.d. is per-
(musically) to western ears accustomed to pop haps the current “most visible lesbian” in the U.S.,
music. This newest release is perhaps Libana’s sales have been strong overall. With any luck at all
finest among their world music releases. Vocally the actual release of the film should provide anoth-
flawless, these listener-friendly songs cover a wide er burst of sales activity months after the album’s
stylistic and geographic range. Included are songs initial release.
from eastern Europe, Argentina, North Africa, and
the Middle East. Libana says that this album NUEVA IN
“invokes the soul of the global village,” and they
are right. Shanachie 67003; Tape & CD
A Woman's Heart/Various Artists. This album
rushed to the top of the charts on its release in
Ireland, and has become the best selling album ever.
It spent 25 weeks at #1. A first listen makes it clear
why this is a special album. Six women — Mary
Black, her sister Frances Black, Maura O'Connell,
Dolores Keane, Sharon Shannon, Eleanor McEvoy —
span the range from traditional to contemporary. All
are fabulous vocalists, except for Shannon, who is a THE HOLY GROUND
wiz on the accordion. Almost every track is a stand-
out in its own right, but special mention should go to
the title track, written and sung by Eleanor McEvoy, Until the last couple of decades, lyrics were
treated as sacrosanct, and were not changed if the
singer was of a different sex than the songwriter. In
pii some cases this left women singing about loving
women, and men singing about loving men. You
can hear these gems on oldies stations from time to
time. Columbia, one of the majors, has started a
new label called Art Deco, and one of their first
releases is a collection called Can’t Help Lovin’
That Man. This compilation features men singing
a to other men. There are several other titles avail-
able, featuring singers from the 1920s, ‘30s and ‘40s,
including one that highlights great women vocalists
who were often overshadowed by their male coun-
THE terparts. The label is marketing the discs through a
sophisticated advertising campaign, and has identi-
Mary Black’s previously unreleased “Sonny,” and fied the gay market as one of the primary ones they
“Wall of Tears” by Frances Black. While this is an would like to tap into.
import, there is now a US importer who has been After years of ignoring bookstores as a market,
able to make this available to distributors at a very several of the largest labels have begun to do pro-
reasonable price. Dara 10011; Tape & CD Continued on page 99
72
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:18 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
By Richard Labonte where St. Martin’s had a booth, there were no
A Different Light Bookstore, San Francisco copies on hand of a debut mystery by one of its
authors, Randye Lordon, though she was featured
The theme this issue is travel: the single best on one of the three lesbian/gay-interest panels at
gay book I can recommend which fits that theme is the Festival — and had paid her own way to attend
Lars Eighner’s Travels With Lizbeth: Three Years after St. Martin's turned down a Festival request!
on the Road and on the Streets ($19.95 c], 0-312- And although there was a panel at the Festival fea-
09926-6, St. Martin’s). turing writing by and about the homeless, St.
True, it’s the account of an essentially homeless Martin's was equally unwilling to bring in Eighner.
man’s wanderings over the course of more than three It’s wonderful that books from Lordon, Nisa
years, through the streets of Austin, Texas, and along Donnelly, Denise Ohio and many each year by and
the freeways and highways to and from Southern about lesbians and gays, are being published by St.
California, and it provides a poignant, wry insider's Martin’s; but it must be frustrating for their editors,
look at the life of a man who “fell through the cracks” to say nothing of their writers, how little post-pub-
when he lost his job and used up his friends. lication support the books receive).
But Eighner, a gay writer since the 1970s, and
one of the few — John Preston, Steve Saylor are two
others — to pull off the feat of blending good writ- y
ing with good erotica, is too perceptive and acute a
writer to dwell simply on himself. Oops. Sorry for the rant.
So his book about a man and his dog and their In other travel news, New York looms large this
travels is also “travel writing” at its very best: critic year, what with Stonewall 25 and the Gay Games and
Phillip Lopate compared him to Orwell and all: watch your Inland or Bookpeople catalogues for at
Ackerley. Author Sarah Bird compared him to least three NYC guides due this spring: Betty & Pansy’s
Voltaire's Candide, and I think he’s as good, in an Severe Queer Review of New York City, the Detour
effective askew way, as Jan Morris. guide for NYC, and, from Gay Men's Press in Britain, a
new New York guide with a view from abroad.
They'll all join the Northeast Edition of the ven-
W erable Gayellow Pages as books focusing on the
nation’s largest city — and, for at least the months
Travels with Lizbeth has also received of June and July, its queerest (a perfect case-in-
unprecedented review attention, unusual for a book point where “queer” substitutes finely for the much
from St. Martin’s, a publisher notorious for under- more awkward construction of lesbianist and
promoting its own books. Reviews include front- gayest, and the longer one of most lesbian and most
page rave in the New York Times, a National Public gay). All four guides are produced by men, but
Radio interview, and more. each includes a look at lesbian venues.
(Speaking of notorious: at the recent fourth In terms of travel writing, there are a few books,
annual San Francisco Bay Area Book Festival, some old and some new, that I'd like to suggest.
73 January 1994
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:18 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsTwo are from San Francisco writer Herbert Gold, Liberation and Oppression by Aart Hendriks, Rob
whose most recent book is Bohemia: Where Art, Tielman & Evert van der Veen of the International
Angst, Love & Strong Coffee Meet, a splendid Lesbian & Gay Association (ILGA), a country-by-
graze through the coffee houses, cafes and places country survey of lesbian and gay rights and
where poets hang out ($11 pb, 0-671-88608-8, April, wrongs, with nearly two dozen specific essays on
Simon & Schuster); an earlier title is Best policies and politics in countries ranging from
Nightmare on Earth, a particularly timely look at Canada to China ($29.95 c1, 0-87975-831-7,
the people and politics of Haiti, written by a visitor Prometheus).
who loves the country and explains its tumultuous
times ($12 pb, 0-671-75516-1, Simon & Schuster).
All of the available Jan Morris titles do very
well at A Different Light, and her literary lyric Two more titles to consider come from elderly
interpretations of the cities she visits also sell, when American expatriate Julian Green, who has been
cross-shelved, from our TransGender section: her living in Paris for many decades, and through his
reputation as a male-to-female transsexual boosts writing evokes a haunting, soul-stirring sense of
her sales among both women and men, and any that city. The most direct book is Paris, a traveling-
stores comfortable with the issue of sex change in-place memoir ($13.95 pb, 0-7145-2949-4, Marion
might do well with her books. The ones in print are: Boyar). And for a wonderful read, about people
Destinations: Essays From Rolling Stone ($9.95 and places, The Distant Lands is also by Green
pb, 0-19-503069-9, Oxford); The Great Port: A ($24.95 c], 0-7145-2909-5).BP
Passage Through New York ($8.95 pb, 0-19-503576-
3, Oxford); Hong Kong ($13 pb, 0-679-72486-9, Most of the titles I've suggested over the past
Vintage); Journeys ($8.95 pb, 0-19-505606-9, months have been gay-interest books for women’s
Oxford); Last Letters From Hav ($6.95 pb, 0-394- bookstores which might want to stock a gay section;
75564-2, Random House); Locations ($8.95 pb, 0-19- there are also a few titles we stock in our “Changing
283136-4, Oxford); Manhattan ‘45 ($9.95 pb, 0-19- Men” section I'd like to mention here — though you
506664-2, Oxford); O Canada: Travels in an won't find any of those “manly men” books by the
Unknown Country ($20 cl, 0-06-018328-4, likes of Robert Bly and Sam Keen listed here.
HarperCollins); Sydney ($22.50, 0-394-55098-6, Boyhood: Growing Up Male, A Multicultural
Random House); and The Venetian Empire: A Sea Anthology by Franklin Abbott, is a collection of
Voyage ($9.95 pb, 0-14-011994-9, Penguin). essays by both gay men and non-gay men on mem-
ories of and reflections on their childhood, and is a
fine attempt to explore through personal remem-
sv brance how it is that gender roles are developed
($12.95 pb, 0-89594-581-9, Crossing Press). Abbott is
And, Pleasures of a Tangled Life is more also the editor of New Men, New Minds ($10.95
focused on herself than on her travels, though it’s pb, -219-4) and Men and Intimacy ($12.95 pb, -407-
still a book written by someone who obviously 3). BP and IN.
loves to roam the world. Pleasure is Morris’ retro- Male Order: Unwrapping Masculinity edited
spective on the act, rather than the sites or the by Rowena Chapman and Jonathan Rutherford is
sights, of travel (0-679-73131-8, Vintage). While more scholarly but in the end a no less personal col-
you're at it, might as well also stock Conundrum, lection of essays using popular culture as a spring-
the account of her transsexual experience ($8.95 pb, board for a discussion of masculinity ($19.95 pb, 0-
0-8050-0361-4, Henry Holt). 85315-690-5, Lawrence & Wishart).
Though not exactly a travel guide, and is pricey, The Prince and the King: Healing the Father-
this title is a valuable book for travelers (and those Son Wound by Michael Gurian ($13.95 pb, 0-87477-
of us who dream about traveling): The Third Pink 742-9, Jeremy Tarcher/Perigee) and Father-Son
Book: A Global View of Lesbian and Gay Healing: An Adult Son’s Guide by Joseph Ilardo
74
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:18 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
($12.95 pb, 1-879237-47-4, New Harbinger) are two Light/SF has imported a couple of these titles
single-author books whose substance is obvious already, and they've sold well, at prices $3 or $4
from their titles; the first is our best-seller, but the higher than listed here.
second is used by at least two therapists in town as The two titles with strong co-gender interest are
a reference for their clients. Broadcasting It! by Keith Howes, an encyclopedia
The Secret Lore of Gardening: Patterns of of lesbian and gay appearances in British broadcast-
Male Intimacy by Graham Jackson is a Jungian per- ing (TV, radio, film shown on TV) from 1923 to
spective on the psychology of homoerotic relation- 1993 ($27.95 pb, 0-304-32702-5); Coming Out of the
ships among straight men, between gay men and Blue: British Police Officers Talk About Their
straight men, and definitely between gay men Lives In “The Job” As Lesbians, Gays and
(Inner City Books, $16 pb, 0-919123-53-8). Bisexuals by Marc Burke has a pretty self-explana-
Discovering Men: Critical Studies On Men tory title ($14.95 pb, 0-304-32714-X).
and Masculinities by David Morgan takes the tack
that the very idea of “men’s studies” must be exam-
ined critically ($16.95 pb, 0-415-07622-6, Routledge).
King Warrior Magician Lover: Rediscovering the Speaking of Sex: The Limits of Language by
Archetypes of the Mature Masculine by Robert Antony Grey sounds from the publisher description
Moore & Douglas Gillette is another Jungian look at like a heavy semiotic consideration of the sexual
manhood and maleness, “one rooted not in domina- vocabulary ($13.95 pb, 0-304-32698-4).
tion butin creativity,” according to the New Age Journal And there are two AIDS-related titles: How Can
($10 pb, 0-06-250606-4, Harper SanFrancisco). You Write a Poem When You Are Dying of AIDS,
Fatherjournal: Five Years of Awakening to an anthology edited by John Harold ($10.95 pb, 0-
Fatherhood by David Steinberg ($4.95 pb, 0-87818- 304-32904-5); and Positive Lives: Responses to HIV,
034-2) and For Men Against Sexism: A Book of a Photodocumentary produced by the Terrence
Readings edited by Jon Snodgrass ($9.95 pb, -031-8) Higgins Trust, an extraordinary collaboration among
are two 1977 titles from Times Change Press which patients, photographers, lovers and friends ($29.95
are superbly prescient in how they addressed issues c], -32846-4). Cassell c/o PCS Processing Inc., 360 W
still being worked out a generation later by too many 31st Street, New York NY 10001. È
men. Both books are available from Times Change
Press, POB 2510, Novato CA 94948, 805-646-8595; Even though this is supposed to be a column
and Inland has carried both books intermittently. about gay-interest titles for women’s bookstores,
this month I'd like to inaugurate a new feature, a
gay boy’s favorite lesbian title: The Complete
ip Garbo Talks by Garbo (author of the novel Rusty).
The essays in this hand-made collection are
The End of Manhood: A Book for Men of among the wittiest I've ever read, and certainly this
Conscience by John Stoltenberg comes with praise book tops my list for 1993 (though copyright 1991)
from Gloria Steinem: “practical . . . compassionate . of “T'Il-just-look-at-a-page-or-two-my-goodness-
. . T hope Robert Bly reads it and discovers the real I've-finished-the-book” titles. Garbo’s squint at the
men’s movement,” from Naomi Wolf: “a brave bea- world makes so much sense, provides so much
con to a new world beyond sexism,” and Essex entertainment, is so unpretentious ..….is just so
Hemphill: “bravely interrogates masculinity and plain good. The self-published effort is worth buy-
patriarchy.” Look for the paperback in mid-1994 ing ($9.95 pb, 1-881152-03-0) from Big Breakfast
($21 cl, 0-525-93630-0, Dutton). Publishing, POB 02394, Columbus OH 43202. O
There’s an exciting new series of 30 books com-
ing from the British publisher Cassell, with the first
five titles due at InBook in January. A Different
75
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:18 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Æ Kitchen Table
K 3 Women of Color Press :
Help keep Kitchen Table alive
for the next generation of feminists of color
Dear Book Lover,
When Kitchen Table: Women of Color Press was started by Audre Lorde and Barbara Smith
in 1980, its founders pledged that it would become an institution. Thirteen years later Kitchen
Table is still alive and continues to be the omy U. S. publisher for women of color. But in
these hard economic times, there is no guarantee that Kitchen Table will be always be here,
unless the women's community nationwide takes an active part in securing its future.
As you know, the Press has published award winning classics like This Bridge Called My
Back, Home Girls, and Cuentos, but you may not know that it has always functioned as a
service organization and political support network for feminists and lesbians of color as well.
Recently the Press' first full four-color cover for Seventeen Syllables was awarded First
Place in the highly competitive New York Book Show. Most of the other winners were multi-
national corporations with unlimited budgets, art departments, and state of the art equipment.
Kitchen Table won with two people on staff and without even an office copying machine or
laser printer.
If it were not for publisher Barbara Smith's years of leadership and unsalaried work the
Press would not have survived. Because we are women who cherish Kitchen Table we believe
it is time for the Press' existence not to be dependent upon individual sacrifice. We want the
Press to grow and to gain access to the material and technological resources that would make
it possible to sustain the quality work that has made its reputation. That means that we have
made a commitment to raising the necessary funds to accomplish these goals.
We the undersigned take responsibility for preserving Kitchen Table and the work that has
given so many of us the strength, the vision, and the hope to fight for our lives and the lives of
those we love. We urge you to join us. For just as we are responsible for our own liberation,
we understand that Kitchen Table Press' survival depends on us.
Thank you in advance for your generosity.
Dorothy Abbott, Tania Abdulahad, Mary Ader, Cathy Cohen, Gloria DeSole, Bea Gates, Jaime Grant,
Naomi Jaffe, Joo Hyun Kang, Laura Kaplan, Andrea Lockett, Judith McDaniel, Helen Quan, Vickie Smith
Yes! I want to join my sisters in ensuring the future of KTP. Piease accept my contribution.
D $1,000 D $500 D $250 D$100 D5$50 D$35 D Oother
Name
AddrCess ity State Zip
SSSAAA
Kitchen Table: Women of Color Press P.O. Box 908-F Latham, NY 12110
January 1994 76 Volume 16 Number 5
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:18 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsCompiled by Carol Seajay they'll want to buy it. Directed by Aerlyn Weissman
with the help of the feminist presses. & Lynne Fernie. Produced by Margaret Pettigrew
and Ginny Stikeman. 85 minutes, closed captioned.
Not news by now, but Naiad Press started ship- The offer I saw said “Offer valid in Canada only.” If
ping copies of the k.d. lang video Salmonberries on you have a Canadian mailing address, I guess
December 9. I assume that Naiad got word to all the you're in. Others take the risk of having their orders
stores in time for Christmas orders. The video was out
in Europe last summer — it’s been available in Canada
for a while and now, finally, legitimate copies in the
U.S. $69.95 from Naiad. 30% bookstore discount.
Forbidden Love: The Unashamed Stories of
Lesbian Lives, the smash hit of the San Francisco
Lesbian & Gay Film Festival, is on sale from the
National Film Board of Canada for $19.95 until
March 31, 1994 when the price goes up to $34.95.
The film offers a portrait of lesbian life, sexuality
and survival during the 1950s and 60s by interweav- returned. Easiest deal is to pay by visa or master-
ing interviews with ten lesbians who vividly and charge so the GST taxes can be added. 40% discount
passionately recall that part of their lives with for 10+. Order from the National Film Board of
dramatizations of scenes from the era's pulp novels Canada, Women’s Marketing D-5, PO Box 6100
that fade into the steamy cover paintings... It’s won- Station A, Montreal PQ H3C 3HS5 or fax 514-496-
derful! Any bookstore that rents videos will want 2573, Attn: Women’s Marketing. Forbidden Love
one or two — and then once women have seen it, should be available in the U.S. for home viewing and
bookstore sales in June fromWomen Make Movies.
Bookpeople (BP) and Inland (IN) distribute small press
books to bookstores. “BP” or “IN” at the end of an anno- Wolfe Video's newest release is Et L'Amour cre-
tation means that the books are available from that distrib- ated by Ponygirl Productions “to give women (and
utor. Both distributors stock a wide range of titles and those who find woman to woman experience erotic)
publishers of interest to feminist bookstores. If you are a a unique short film to titillate, arouse and suggest a
new store or don't already work with both distributors, romantic interlude between consenting adults. An
drop everything and call for catalogs. erotic appetizer, a steamy emotional teaser.”
Inland Book Company, PO Box 120261, 140 Lesbian erotic video is hard to do — or maybe my
Commerce St., East Haven CT 06512. Order number: problem continues to be that I'm over 40 and like it,
800-243-0138 ( including Canada and Connecticut). and prefer to do it rather than watch it. But it will
Bookpeople, 7900 Edgewater Dr, Oakland CA 94621. definately rent well (and sell?) to those who are
Phone: 800-999-4650. renting in the genre. Production quality is better
77
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:18 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
NEW FROM SPINIFEX than most. $24.95, 23 minutes. Wolfe Video, PO Box
64, New Almaden CA 95042. 408-268-6782.
The Lesbian Heresy “100 Simple Things You Can Do To End
Sheila Jeffreys Patriarchy,” a poster that adorns maħñy a dyke
"Controversial, outrageous, heretical" refrigerator, is now available in French, Spanish,
and Grade 2 Braille as well as English. $5 ea. “Come
"The backlash against Out Now — Ask me how!” bumperstickers for
feminism has been recuriters, $1. 40% bookstore discount. Free ship-
documented powerfully by ping with prepayment. Word Weavers, PO Box
Naomi Wolf and Susan 8742., Minneapolis MN 55408.
Faludi ...… Within the lesbian
community, too, there has
been a parallel backlash."
L thes isb i a bn a c kH le ar se hs y a n a dd d wre is lls e s cause Whose Daughter Are You: Exploring Identity
quite a stir amongst Issues of Lesbians Who Are Adopted offers find-
f quem eei rn is at n, d l e hs eb ti ea rn o, s eg xa uy a, l i sn eg ls f -o sf e la en c t e ex dp ,lo r a st eo lr fy - is dt eu ndy t i fth ieat d i n lt ee sr bvi ie aw ne sd 1 w3 ho were
readers. adopted as infants or young children. Issues
1-875559-17-5 $17.95 explored included the coming-out process, manag-
ing relationships with partners, conducting relation-
Safe Houses ships with both adoptive and (if found) birth fami-
Rose Zwi lies, and searching or not searching for the birth fam-
"A tangled web of love and betrayal set in ily. The study also explored the dual yet separate
South Africa" elements which contributed to an identity: being
adopted and being a lesbian. Thesis-bound. $8 plus
An historical novel, Safe Houses tells the story of three $2 shipping & handling. 40% bookstore discount for
families - black and Jewish - who are inextricably bound 2+. The author is also at work on a book on interna-
by love and hate, hope and betrayal - and their attempt to tional adoption, partly autobiographical, about being
dsu er vv ouiv re s a bn o t hev i tl h ep o l gi uti ic lta yl s ay ns dt e m th et h ia nt n oi cn ed ni ts .criminately Korean and adopted by a white U.S. family. She rais-
1-875559-21-3 $13.95 es issues of racism in international adoptions and
other political issues and analysis. Most (all?) of the
Feminist Fables work in print on these issues are written by adoptive
Suniti Namjoshi parents and social workers, rather than from the
"A feminist classic to read over and over" experience of those who were adopted. Order from
author /publisher Mi Ok Song Bruining, 2316 Vance
The fable is deftly brought up to date in the work of Suniti St., Bronx NY 10469. 718-653-0613.
Namjoshi - from its sources in Greek and Sanskrit
msityutahtioolnogs.y, Namjoshi works instead with contemporary yIn yH keo n Do or nnab l e ckD si os nc h wa rr ig tee . .. oM ute m hero i r ys sof an
Arm D a J a s a b e ar
1-875559-19-1 $12.95 in the military, culminating with her pre- Gulf War
discharge for telling her commanding officers that
Spinifex is exclusively distributed in the US by INBOOK. she was a lesbian. Actually, the military didn’t care
PO Box 1202 6 T1 e, l : E 2a 0st 3 - 4H 6a 7v e 4n 2 5 C 7T 06512, much that she was a lesbian — she was told (“off
For publicity information contact: the record, of course”) that she would be deployed
Michele Karlsberg: 1-718-351 9599 to Saudia Arabia for the course of the war, and then
discharged for being a lesbian. She was discharged
Spinifex Press, PO Box 212, North Melbourne, Vic, — honorably — for refusing to accept that
Australia. Tel 03 329 6088, Fax 03 329 9238. hypocrisy. Honorable Discharge is a “bare all/ tell
January 1994 78 Volume 16 Number 5
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:18 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsall” book “that reads like a trashy novel” and faith- les a subject that most men think taboo — but
fully describes her eight years in the military from women, fortunately, do not. Stephanie H. Piro’s
the young age of 17 until her discharge at 25 and — Men! Ha! gives women a lot to laugh at — and
briefly — covers the two years since her discharge. gives men a chance to find out, once and for all, if
$14.95 pb, 0-9639855-0-7. 250+ pgs. Published by they have a sense of humor. Stephanie examines
The Christie Stefin Company (Donna & her lover, life, love and romance and uses her one-panel car-
co-publishers of Dyke Review), 584 Castro St. #456, toons to chart the parabola of male/female relation-
San Francisco CA 94114. 50% discount to book- ships. Her work has been published in Woman's
stores for first order. Distributed by Alamo Square Glibber, Ms, Glamour and elsewhere. This book will
and BP. Jan. cheer her fans and win her many new ones. Don’t
miss it. $7.50, pb, 0-9632526-2-3. Laugh Lines Press,
The Women’s Studies Librarian of the PO Box 259, Bala Cynwyd PA 19004. BP & IN.
University of Wisconsin System offers a new,
updated core bibliography The History of Women NEW VICTORIA PRESS
and Science, Health and Technology which may Everywhere House by long-time activist Jane
be useful to booksellers. Single copies are available Myerding presents a mystery set in Seattle in the
free while supplies last from The Women’s Studies politically-charged 1970s. The brutal murder of a
Librarian, University of Wisconsin System, 430 philosophy professor implicates Barb Randall, a
Memorial Library, 728 State St., Madison WI 53706. member of The Furies, an ultra-radical lesbian sepa-
ASTARTE SHELL PRESS : ratist collective. Drawn to Barb's plight and fearing
she will not be treated fairly by the authorities, stu-
Reflections Of A Healing Heart by Linda dent Terry Barber begins her own investigation. `
Estela. Mollie is dependable, helpful, fun-loving. She unearths Barb’s secret personal history, infil-
One night she sits in her bathroom and very pur- trates a sinister religious cult, and precipitates both
posefully uses a razor blade on her wrists. As a psy- political and personal struggles within her own les-
chiatric nurse, she is appalled the next morning to bian collective. We liked this book because of its
wake up in a locked hospital ward. Her journey of discussion of feminist and leftist political issues and
healing takes her into memories of deeply-hidden its recounting of a fascinating time in our collective
childhood abuse, and reconnects her with the fiery consciousness. $9.95 pb,0-934678-42-1. March.
Power of the artwork she had abandoned because it
br9oug6ht 2her4 to6o c2lose6 to- th8e t-ru3th. . $10.95 pb, 0-
We are also pleased that The Rest Of The Deer: The Kali Connection by Claudia McKay intro-
An Intuitive Study Of Intuition by Margaret duces us to investigative reporter-turned-sleuth
Blanchard, is currently available through Inland, Lynn Evans. Reporting on the seemingly simple
Bookpeople and New Leaf. $14.95, 0-9624627-7-5. drug-overdose death of a former addict, Lynn
Astarte Shell Press, PO Box 10453, Portland ME meets the beautiful and enigmatic Marta Hanley,
04104; 207-828-1992. member of The Kalimaya Society, a mysterious
LAUGH LINES PRESS LE yas nt ner ’sn g c ru ol wt i nr gu m fo er ee lid n g t so fb oe r i Mnv aro tlv a e d d r w awit h h ed rr u ig ns t. o an
Laugh Lines Press finds nothing patriarchal too investigation of the Kalimayas and eventually to
sacred to laugh at. The newest title, Men! Ha!, tack- Nepal and Marta’s true mission. With an exotic set-
79,
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:18 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
ting, a complex emotional relationship, and some
third-world politics, this mystery makes for very
interesting reading. $9.95 pb, 0-934678- 54-5. March.
Lesbomania by Jorjet Harper, the Molly Ivins of
the lesbian beat, is a collection of her very amusing
columns which appear in numerous lesbian and
gay publications. Topics range from two lesbian,
nearly monogamous penguins, to guilt about not
going to Michigan, to her lesbian version of West
Side Story. It kept us laughing through the whole
ma5nuscr3ipt—-alw7ays .a goo d sMign. $9a.95 ypb, 0.-34 678 -:
New Victoria Press, PO Box 27, Norwich VT.
05055; 802-649-5297.
— New Victoria Press
z LVZ
PLAIN VIEW PRESS
Texas feminist literary publisher Plain View
Press announces the publication of Embracing the
Fall by Margo LaGuttuta with art by Christine
Reising, a collection of poetry which has burst out
of creative process, out of a way of living in the
world of everyday things — a license plate that says
3374 MEN, eating pears, and moving to Muskegon.
There is passion, art, humor and a woman's vision
in these fragile and powerful poems. $11.95 pb, 0-
911051-71-6. Plain View Press, PO Box 33311,
Austin TX 78764. Distributed by Inland.
SPINIFEX
Two new Spinifex titles have shipped to the U.S.
and should arrive at InBook in late January or early
Feb. Set in South Africa, Safe Houses by Rose Zwi
tells the story of three families — Black and Jewish
— who are inextricably bound by love and hate,
hope and betrayal. Linked by a common past, but
separated by betrayal, Ruth and Lola are drawn
into the struggle against apartheid, but still feel
inadequate and marginal — it is difficult to find
solutions when one is part of the problem. When
their children meet and fall in love they are deter-
mined not to join the spiral of love, jealousy, and
betrayal that swallowed their parents. But can their
love and hope survive an evil political system that
indiscriminately devours both the guilty and the
January 1994 80 Volume 16 Number 5
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:18 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsinnocent? Rose Zwi was born in Mexico, has lived returned to the formality of English social life...
in London and Israel, but spent most of her life in “Macaulay’s most sophisticated novel explores bril-
South Africa. Her previous novels include The liantly the spiritual dilemmas of the post-war
Umbrella Tree, Another Year in Africa, The Inverted world.” $10.95 pb, 1-86068-340-0.
Pyramid and Exiles. She emigrated to Australia in Elizabeth Von Arnim wrote 23 novels including
1988. $13.95 pb, 1-875559-21-3. The Solitary Summer. “Here, with the pleasing
Spinifex has also just shipped their edition of astringeny for which she is noted, Elizabeth von
S au bn li et i fN eam mjo is nh ii s’s t F e cm lain ssis it c F a tb hle as t, a cn o mind bis ip ne en ss- Greek and A imr mni om r t ar le izt eu dr n is n t To h et h e E n h cher anoi tn ee d a An pd r ilg a r (rd ee cn e n ts lh ye dra-
Sanskrit mythology with some of the most wicked matized in Britain on screen and for the BBC).” “A
and powerful satire in contemporary feminism. witty, lyrical account of a rejuvenating summer.
$12.95 pb, 1-875559-19-1. Descriptions of magnificent larkspurs and burning
Titles announced previously that are already at nasturtiums give way to those of cooling forest
InBook include The Lesbian Heresy by Sheila Jeffreys, walks — and of clambering up the mud bank when
The Falling Woman by Susan Hawthorne, If Passion the miller is not in view.” $10.95 pb, 1-85381-553-5.
Were a Flower photographs by Lariane Fonseca (at a Trafalgar also has Hutchinson’s La Pasionaria:
new reduced price of $39.95 for this glorious, full- The Spanish Firebrand, a biography of Dolores
c to olo or n sp h o bto yg r a Jph uy d yb o o Hk) o, r a an cd e kL ,if e S o pn i n t ih fe e xE d g Pe r eca sr s- , 504 Continued on page 98
Queensberry ST., PO Box 212, North Melbourne Vic P.R.ESS,GANG
3051, Australia. Booksellers interested in obtaining
in-store promotional materials, a recent caltalog or
other information may also contact Spinifex’s U.S. P U B La S H ER 5S
publicist, Michele Karlsberg, 585 N. Railroad Ave.
Penthouse, Staten Island NY 10305. Phone/fax 718-
351-9599. Distributed in the U.S. by InBook. IS PLEASED TO ANNOUNCE THAT
INBOOK IS NOW OUR EXCLUSIVE U.S. DISTRIBUTOR.
VIRAGO
Three titles recently released in the U.S. include
two books in the Virago Modern Classics Series IN CANADA, EFFECTIVE FEBRUARY 1, OUR BOOKS WILL
and... a cat book.
BE DISTRIBUTED BY GENERAL DISTRIBUTION SERVICES,
Into the cat craze comes Minka and Curdy,
Antonia White’s (Frost in May) enchanting story of WITH ONGOING REPPING BY KELLINGTON
a Writer and the two kittens who come to disrupt & ASSOCIATES.
her work.... First published in 1957 and followed in
1970 by Living With Minka and Curdy. $10.95 pb, 1-
85381-552-7.
Rose Macaulay's The World My Wilderness, a WATCH FOR OUR GREAT SPRING 94 LIST!
somewhat autobiographical coming-of-age novel
about a girl “allowed to run wild” in post WWII X
France who, for her misdeeds and others’, is then
81
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:18 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
NEW TITLES FROM
ALYSON
CAPTAIN SWING
by Larry Duplechan
A story about loving, letting go, and then doing it all over
again ... with a little Creole-Cajun cooking on the side, and
Billie Holiday on the Walkman.
$15.95, cloth • 184 pages • ISBN 1-55583-234-2
MEMBERS OF THE TRIBE
MEMBERS OF THE
T B "R "Y Caricatures of Gay Men and Lesbians
by Michael Willhoite
MICHAEL WILLHOITE Here are a few names you may not have heard before.
Michael Willhoite stages his own pride parade with carica-
tures of over one hundred more of our lesser-known brothers
and sisters. Each illustration is accompanied by brief, enter-
taining background of their personal and professional careers.
$24.95, large-format cloth • 128 pages • ISBN 1-55583-238-5
TESTIMONIES
Lesbian Coming-Out Stories
edited by Karen Barber and Sarah Holmes
Twenty-two lesbians of widely varying backgrounds and
ages give accounts of their journeys toward self-discovery.
($J7a.9n5u,a r tyr)ade paper • about 470 pages • ISBN 1-55583-245-8 •
Order from InBook/Inland, Bookpeople, or direct from the publisher. Se-
lected Alyson titles are available from Ingram and Golden-Lee.
ALYSON PUBLICATIONS
C 40 PLY 6M17-P5T42O-5N67 9 S T(CRalEl EoTrd e r°s tBoOll-SfTreOe:N 8, 0 0M-8-AAL Y0SO2N11)8
January 1994 82 Volume 16 Number 5
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:18 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Press World Atlas: Miniature Edition is a pocket
sized atlas complete with an index. $4.95 cl, 1-
First, some travel-related small press titles... 56138-250-7. The Running Press, 125 South Twenty-
Road Magic by Susan Foss is the autobiographi- Second St., Philadelphia PA 19103. BP.
cal tale of a 23-year-old secretary who quits her job
and takes to the road on a motorcycle for thirteen
years. This first book of a projected trilogy reveals
the adventurous Foss’ travels in North America
with her dog, Commanche. In journal-like entries
Foss writes of the “beauty of our land..., the kind-
ness given freely from our people, the wild and free
moods of nature.” $9.95 pb, 1-883557-01-1. Road
Magic, PO Box 1743, Woodward OK 73802. 1-800-
700-ROAD.
Running Press has several helpful travel tools:
A Traveler's Diary: A Companion To- Your
Journeys is a blank book to document your travel
experiences. Includes quotations from various writ-
ers, explorers and actors. $11.95 cl, 0-89471-783-9. A
Traveler's Journal: A Personal Notebook for
Travels Real and Imaginary is a paperback journal
that includes quotations from both famous women From The Story of a Single Woman by Uno Chiyo.
and men — unfortunately a lot more men than One Particular Harbor: The Outrageous True
women... $5.95 pb, 0-89471-185-7. The Running Adventures of One Woman with Multiple
Sclerosis Living in the Alaskan Wilderness is by
Bookpeople (BP) and Inland (IN) distribute small press Janet Lee James. The story takes place against the
books to bookstores. “BP” or “IN” at the end of an annota- backdrop of the Alaskan wilderness, where James
tion means that the books are available from that distribu- lived in the cabin she'd always dreamed of (no
tor. Both distributors stock a wide range of titles and pub- water or electricity), worked as a cook on an ancient
lishers of interest to feminist bookstores. If you are a new two masted schooner and mushed sled dogs on
store or don't already work with both distributors, drop weekends. “Her tastes for black humor, cold beer,
everything and call for catalogs. and handsome men result in numerous entertain-
Inland Book Company, PO Box 120261, 140 ing tales that leave an unfliching account of the pro-
Commerce St., East Haven CT 06512. Order number: gressively worsening MS symptoms that eventually
800-243-0138 (incIudin g Canada and Connecticut). confine James to an electric wheelchair.” $13.95 pb,
Bookpeople, 7900 Edgewater Dr, Oakland CA 94621. 1-879360-30-6. The Noble Press, 213 W. Institute
Phone: 800-999-4650. Place Suite 508, Chicago IL 60610. BP and IN.
Volume 16 Number 5 83 January 1994
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:18 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Independent Woman’s Guide to Europe cl - 93-8. Readers International, PO Box 959,
by Linda White is a unique resource that provides a Columbia LA 71418. Distributed by Consortium. IN.
good deal of information about travelling across
Europe. The author appears to be biting off a bit Marcia Pally’s Sex & Sensibility challenges the
more than she can chew, however, attempting to belief that television is a direct cause of violent
tackle Europe in its entirety. The most useful and in behavior. In these excerpts on television violence,
depth sections are: Accomodations, Transportation Pally asks important questions and, in an evocative
and Shopping. This guide would probably best and extensively researched text, challenges what is
serve the Euro-rail traveller who has never visited believed to be the intellectually correct thinking
the continent before. $13.95 pb, 1-55591-087-4. that has bred the current hysteria about television
Fulcrum Publishing, 350 Indiana Street, Suite 350, violence. $13 pb, 0-88001-364-8, June. The Ecco
Golden CO 80401. BP and IN. Press, 100 West Broad St., Hopewell NJ 08525.
One last note of travel interest... Book Passage Distributed by W.W. Norton and IN. '
Press is releasing an anthology of essays about trav-
el writers’ worst trips titled I Should Have Stayed Enough is Enough: Weekly Meditations for
Home. Many of the contributors are women: Jan Living Dysfuctionally by visual and performance
Morris, Barbara Kingsolver, Mary Morris, Marcia artist Karen Finley is a wonderfully hysterical book.
Muller, Mary Mackey and Helen Gurley Brown are It “reveals how to parlay such key dysfuctional
some well-known names. The royalites received skills as procrastination, whining, lying, hating,
from this book will be donated to Oxfam America, complaining, faking, ignoring, ‘self-centering,’
the internaional relief organization. May 1994. bragging and exaggerating power, attention and
Also coming out in May is A Kind of Grace, a glory.” This is a book that customers will buy for
collection of essays from great women’s sportswrit- themselves and come back for more copies to share
ers. This anthology will be published under RDR with friends. Finley was catapulted into controver-
Books’ women’s series imprint, Zenobia Press. sy in 1990 when she became one of four perfor-
mance artists whose NEA funding was cut off after
two conservative columnists vilified her solo per-
formance, We Keep Our Victims Ready. $14 cl, 0-
671-87182-X. Poseidon Press, 1230 Avenue of the
Author Jamie Fuller gives us a fictional diary, Americas, New York NY 10020.
based on close readings of Dickinson’s writings and
contemporary materials. The Diary of Emily Four Walls Eight Windows has published the
Dickinson is a dramatic achievement by Fuller, one long-awaited Parable of the Sower by Octavia E.
that re-creates the persona of Dickinson in a very Butler. Parable takes place in California in the year
believable way. $18 cl, 1-56279-048-X. Mercury 2025, “where small walled communities must pro-
House, 201 Filbert St. # 400, San Francisco CA tect themselves from hordes of desperate scav-
94133. Distributed by Corsortium, BP, IN. engers and roaming bands of... people addicted to a
The heroine of Monika Maron’s Silent Close No. drug that activates an orgasmic desire to burn, rape
6 (translated from the German by David N. and murder.” After one community is overrun by
Marinelli) is a disaffected journalist hired by a these bandits, an 18-year-old Black woman sets out
retired East German high official to transcribe his on foot along the dangerous coastal highway. She
memoirs — which we read through the critical eyes suffers from a hereditary trait called “hyperempa-
of the woman who is transcribing them and com- thy,” which causes her to feel others’ pain as well as
menting on his life. Maron’s first novel, Flight of her own. Butler is one of a few African American
Ashes, explored the subtleties of self-censorship by women writing science fiction. Her work has won
writers and journalists under East European many prizes. $19.95 cl, 0-941423-99-9. Four Walls
Communism. Silent Close won the Heinrich von Eight Windows, PO Box 548, Village Station, New
Kleist Prize in 1992. $11.95 pb, 0-930523-94-6; $19.95 York, NY 10014. BP, IN.
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:18 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Publisher Program. That means you can now get all those titles you and your
customers have grown to love for 45% every time, any store.
Bookpeople‘s Featured Publishers
BEAR & COMPANY HEYDAY BOOKS
THE BOOK PUB. CO. NEWCASTLE PRESS CO.
THE CROSSING PRESS PAPIER-MACHE PRESS 4
ELEMENT PRESS, INC. SOUNDS TRUE AUDIO X,
You don't have to make a separate order, and there is no per-title minimum. When you make an order
meeting our standard minimum requirement (10 or more assorted items, or 5 of a single title), the 45%
discount is automatically assigned to every Featured Publisher title. The 45% discount is also automatically
assigned on all electronic orders.
Bookpeople’s Featured Publisher Program makes it easy and convenient for you to get extra discount every
time you order the strong sellers from these eight presses.
For more information call the Order Department at (800) 999-4650.
BOOKPEOPLE
Order toll-free: (800) 999-4650 . Fax: (510) 632-1281
Volume 16 Number 5 85 January 1994
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:18 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
BARA SIGHTS extr aJ oru dst in aW ryh i s vt ole lu ma e V a ol fe n pti on ee t r yb y t hC a. tD . v W enr ti ug rh et s i is n t a on a
new dimension by her sheer nerve to create other
realms of expression. The recurring figüre of “the
The Last Chance Café and body” encourages a myth/mystery-making on the
other stories part of the reader. A decidedly feminist experience, a
ANITA ROBERTS collection in defiance! Wright is the author of six pre-
“The Last Chance Café finally gives us vious collections of poetry that include most recently
an unedited evolution of a young girl's String Light for which she won the 1992 Poetry
sensuality. Roberts deftly evokes all the Center Award. Just Whistle includes six pho-
subtleties, dangers and contradictory erotic tographs by Deborah Luster. $14 pb, 0-932716-32-6.
currents of growing up female.” Kelsey St. Press, 2718 Ninth St., Berkeley CA 94709.
—Betsy Warland Distributed by Small Press Distribution and Inland.
These stories explore the formative years
0-919591-80-9 of an independent woman where painful Evelyn Williams has written a miraculous book
$14.95 paperback experiences are forged into inspiring which chronicles her experience as both a Black
strength. woman coming of age in America and as the attor-
ney for Black Liberation Army member Assata
Shakur in Inadmissible Evidence. Williams is most
CIm Ap Ne Dr If Se c Gt R M Ao Hm Ae Mnts noted for her six-year defense of her revolutionary
niece. Inadmissible Evidence sheds light on the
“Imperfect Moments is written with injustice through which Shakur was eventually con-
Candis Graham's fine ear for dialogue, an victed of the murder of a New Jersey State trooper
acute observation of everyday life and the and sentenced to life plus 30 years. A much needed
humour that has always characterized her addition to the genre of books that illuminates the
work." —Mary Meigs truth about the Black experience in America. $12.95
Imperfect Moments has been pb, 1-55652-184-7; $22.95 cl, 183-9. Lawrence Hill
0-919591-47-7 Ano ssm ocin iaa tt ie od n f Lo er s b it ah ne aA nm d e r Gi ac yan B L oi ob kr a r Ay ward. B 10o 0o 1k 2s ., D6 i1 s1 t r iB br uo ta ed dw a by y, IS nt de. e p 5 en30 d. e n N t e w Pu bY lo isr hk e, r sNY
$14.95 paperback Group. IN.
no visual scars
ANGELA HRYNIUK Two new anthologies have been published by
Collier Books. Modern Women Writers: Profiles of
“Angela Hryniuk has an extraordinary Their Lives and Works From the 1870s to the
faculty for catching up with rhythm of Present edited by Elaine Showalter, Lea Beachler and
—tla hn Neg i ir cu oa lg r ee e a Blw i rth oy se sn ao rn dp a tin h e a n shd a r p pl e a es du gr ee oe fc h wo ords.” A fu. l W esa sl at yon s tL hit az t p anro alv yid zee s 3 i 2n t wel oli mge en nt l y w r iw ter rit st ’ e n li, v ei sn s aig nh dt-
works. Generally writers one may study in English or
Hryniuk’s poetry offers a courageous creative writing programs: Elizabeth Bishop,
exploration of love, heartbreak, Gwendolyn Brooks, Willa Cather, Emily Dickinson,
0-919591-78-7 pregnancy, abuse, and the pain and joy of Hilda Doolittle and Toni Morrison are some favorites.
$12.95 paperback human relationships. $15 pb, 0-02-082025-9. African American Writers:
Available from Inland and General Profiles of Their Lives and Works from the 1700s to
Distribution Services. the Present edited by Valerie Smith, Lea Baechler,
a a gn ivd e s A b. i bW lia ol gt ro an p h L icit z a ni ds a cn r i ta icn at lh o il no fg oy r m o af t i ow nr it ai bn og us t t 2h 8at
authors’ lives and works. $15 pb, 0-02-082125-5. 866
Third Avenue, NY NY 10022.
January 1994 86 Volume 16 Number 5
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:18 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsXi Xi is Hong Kong’s “foremost woman writer,” 1-55587-396-0; $39.95 cl, -393-6. Lynne Rienner
and one of the few Chinese women to be translated Publishers, Inc., 1800 30th Street #314, Boulder CO
into English. My City: A Hong Kong Story is set in 80301.
the 1970s and illustrates the hopes and fears of the Dorothy Bryant's new novel Anita, Anita tells
younger generation. $11.95 pb, 962-7255-11-4: the story of Anita Ribeiro de Duarte, “the fiery
Renditions Paperbacks, Research Centre for Brazilian girl who left her husband” to fight beside
Translation, Chinese University of Hong Kong, her lover, Giuseppe Garibaldi, in South America
Shatin N.T. Hong Kong. Distributed in the U.S. by and Italy. Bryant uses biographies, Garibaldi’s
Cheng & Tsui, Inland and Small Press Distribution. memoirs, and many other sources to recreate their
passionate love and the events that brought them
together. The historical novel is by far Bryant’s
most ambitious work. She succeeds in unearthing a
warrior woman from a forgotten history. $20 cl,
As Naomi Mitchison turns 95 in her native 931688-17-5; $12.95 pb, 931688-18-3. Ata Books,
Scotland, Soho Press returns to print her historical 1928 Stuart Street, Berkeley CA 94703. BP, IN.
novel, The Corn King and the Spring Queen as
part of the ongoing Hera Series of classic historical Superstars: Twelve Lesbians Who Changed the
fiction by and about women. First published in World by Dell Richards (Lesbian Lists) takes you into
1931, the critics agree this is Mitchison’s master- the world of women who have helped define the
work. The story takes place centuries before world. Richards includes women like Alice Hampton,
Christianity and offers an intimate rendering of whose courage led her to social reform, and her sister
heroic women. $17 pb, 0-939149-99-0. Soho Press, Edith, who opened the world’s eyes anew to the glory `
853 Broadway, New York NY 10003. IN. that was Greece. In this book Richards expands the
definition of “lesbian” to include “cross-dressers,
Lynne Rienner has published two new titles of romantic friends and spinsters as well as the modern
feminist interest: Barbara Callaway and Lucy version of a lesbian.” $11.95 pb, 0-88184-955- 3. Carroll
Creevey’s The Heritage of Islam: Women, & Graf, 260 Fifth Ave., New York NY 10001.
Religion, & Politics in West Africa is a scholarly Publishers Group West, BP, IN.
and informative look at how Muslim culture is
affecting several African countries. The authors
investigate how Islam has played a role in changing
the roles of women and provide a wide ranging
analysis of how Islam works in different societies.. The revised and updated Coming Out to
A must read for any student of Islamic religion. 1- Parents: A Two-Way Survival Guide for Lesbians
55587-414-2. and Gay Men and Their Parents by Mary V.
Educated and Ignorant: Ultraorthodox Jewish Borhek has been published by The Pilgrim Press. It
Women and Their World, Tamara El-Or’s disserta- addresses Jewish and Christian attitudes toward
tion, looks at the lives of “ultraorthadox” Jewish homosexuality and helps both parents and children
women in Israel and reflects the author’s desire to understand and respond to the realities — and
both to tell their stories and to find meaning in their harmful interpretations and misinterpretations —
lives. This translation includes comments and clari- often found in various religious tranditions. It grap-
fications for the English-language reader. $17.95 pb, ples with the effect of AIDS on the coming-out
Volume 16 Number 5 87
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:18 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsprocess. The previous edition helped thousands of Farm Security Administration photographers who
lesbians and gay men to reveal their true selves to were hired by the U.S. government to “take pic-
their parents and helped the parents to undersand tures of the land and its people... which may
and to learn to fully accept and love their children. endure to help the people of tomorrow understand
$14.95 pb, 0-8298-0957-0. 700 Prospect Avenue East, the people of today, so they can carry on more
Cleveland OH 44115. BP. intelligently.” The book also includes 25 excerpts
from written text provided by the WPA New
Laurel King (Women of Power) offers a fresh, Mexico Writer's Project. An important work. $29.95
revealing look at women who live uninhibited and c], 0-941270-55-6; $17.95 pb, 0-941270-54-8. PO Box
unrepressed in a repressed society in A Whistling 5401, Santa Fe NM 87502. BP.
Woman Is Up to No Good: Finding Your Wild
Woman. The book is a culmination of many inter- The Body of Love edited by FBN’s Art Books
views with women who “have learned to express columnist Tee Corinne (Dreams Of the Woman Who
their wild natures.” Includes anecdotes of female Loved Sex, The Sparkling Lavender Dust Of Lust) is a
figures such as Gloria Steinem, Anita Hill, Georgia wonderfully diverse new erotic anthology. But
O'Keefe and Billie Holiday. $12.95 pb, 0-89087-696- what's most striking about this collection of erotica
7. Celestial Arts, PO Box 7123, Berkeley CA 94707. is its intent of being both communicative and aes-
BP, IN. thetically pleasing. Includes some of the best writ-
ers I've seen: Sally Bellerose, Chea Villanueva, and
Ancient City Press has published Women of doris davenport’s stories, for instance, stand out as
New Mexico: Depression Era Images edited by funny, true-to-life creative utterances. 0-934411-52-
Marta Weigle. Women of New Mexico is a fascinat- 2. Banned Books, Edward-William Publishing, #292
ing photo-journalistic take on women’s lives during PO Box 33280, Austin TX 78764. IN & BP.
the Depression. The 86 photos are the work of the
Catalan Communications has published a comic
book, entitled Hearts of Sand written by Philippe
WNL Paringaux, illustrated by Jacques Loustal. We
assume that this was published in Spain (Catalan?)
and then translated for the not-yet-developed
American market for minimal-reader adult books.
| Visuakin | ALAL There are some very problematic aspects of Hearts
of Sand — stereotypes abound. Goodness and
A : G u Wid oe m to e n N ’so n p Sr tin ut d iR ee ssources in innocence (?) belongs to the fair of skin, evil — take
a guess. The “innocent victim is named “Baby” (?!)
©® A listing of 800 audiovisual titles produced between 1985- She’s kidnapped by North African terrorists and
i1n9f9o0r;m aantinoont.ated; indexed by subject and title; ordering It nak e fn ti n t to t h oe yd e s re er dt e; mth iner ge ' s a itv yic i o isu s hr aa tp e s ac be yn e i.. s.
a c h e n l e q u a l t B
@ Cost is $2 (check payable to University of Wisconsin- having an extended affair with a woman, Eva, who
Madison) from: Women’s Studies Librarian, 430 Memorial rescues her in the end. $13.95 pb, 0-87416-134-7. 43
Library, 728 State St., Madison, WI 53706. East 19th St., New York NY 10003. IN.
Also available, on a single joint subscription: Feminist After surveying over 500 women and conduct-
Collections (4/yr.), Feminist Periodicals (4/yr.), and New Books ing 100 in-depth interviews of women’s attitudes
o (in n d W ivo .)m ; e $n 4 6 & ( i nF se tm .)inism (2/yr.). 1994 subscription rates: $25 t Bo aw rar ad b a t rh ae ir C f oe hm ea nle c ho- aw vo er k e ur ns, c oC var eo rly en d D au nff d a n pd ublished
some informative results in When Women Work
Women’s Studies Librarian, 430 Memorial Library Together: Using Our Strengths to Overcome Our
728 State St., Madison, WI 53706; 608-263-5754 Challenges. The authors document how the very
88
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:18 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsattributes that give women advantages in the busi- struggle comes the poems’ beauty. $11.95 pb, 1-
ness world can also be causes for downfall. A good 56689-010-1. Coffee House Press, 27 North 4th Street
resource for any woman majoring in business or Ste. 400, Minneapolis MN 55401. BP.
any woman already working in the corporate
world. $12.95 pb, 0-943233-53-4. Conari Press, 1144 Zed Books has published Maria Mies and
65th St. Suite B, Emeryville CA 94608. BP. Vandana Shiva’s Ecofeminism which brings
together the academic worlds of social science and
physics. Ecofeminism provides the historical and
analytical background for what many women
instinctively know — that there exist linkages
Denise Ohio (author of The Finer Grain, pub- between patriarchal oppression and the destruction
lished by Naiad and End of the Empire) has written an of nature. The authors also give thorough analyses
ambitious new novel entitled Blue which tells the of “indigenous knowledge, globalization, and the
stories of several economically disenfranchized concepts of freedom and self-determination.”
women in America. We witness Rickshaw Jones as $19.95 pb, 1-85649-156-0; $55 cl, -155- 2. 7 Cuthia St.,
she deals with the death of her twin sister and as she London U.K. NI 9JF. BP, IN.
faces “the [racial] stereotypes that trouble America...,
the identity formed by her music and her love for As many writers have acknowledged, short
women.” As the story stretches from the civil rights stories are probably the most difficult form of
movement to the 1980s, Denise Ohio invokes a use of writing to accomplish. Annie Saumont’s I’m No
memory reminiscent of Toni Morrison’s Beloved. $12 Truck: Sixteen Stories, however, is a collection
pb, 0-929701- 30-5. McPherson & Co., PO Box 1126, that surpasses “accomplished.” It is well-crafted, `
Kingston NY 12401.BP, IN. deceptively simple, good writing. From the very
first line of each story the reader wants to discover
Rita Dove, Pulitzer Prize winner and current not only the plot of the story but its essence. Kirkus
U.S. Poet Laureate, ventures into a third genre of Reviews writes that I'm No Truck is “A notable
writing with The Darker Face of the Earth, a verse debut... echo[ing] the terseness of a Samuel
play set on a Southern plantation just before the Beckett.” $21.95 cl, 0-7145-2949-4. Marion Boyars
Civil War. The play deals with many themes includ- Publishers, 24 Lacy Road, London U.K. SW15 1NL.
ing incest, love, abandonment and racism. Dove is InBook.
the author of a collection of short stories and most
recently, a novel, Through the Ivory Gate. A good
selection for students of drama or African American
literature. $10.95 pb, 0-934257-74-4. Story Line Press,
Three Oaks Farm, Brownsville OR 97327. The Story of a Single Woman by Uno Chiyo,
translated by Rebecca Copeland is an autobio-
The Book of Medicines, a collection of poetry by graphical novel that explores the significance of one
Linda Hogan (Mean Spirit, Seeing Through the Sun, woman's “scandalous” life in 1920s Japan. This is
Red Clay and Savings), draws upon Native American the third book available in English by one of
Wisdom and female spirituality, offering truth and Japan's most significant writers of this century.
healing for a dying world. The Book of Medicines $18.95 pb, 0-7206- 0878-3. Dufour Editions, PO Box
attempts to explain what is inexplicable — from that 449, Chester Springs PA 19425.
Volume 16 Number 5 89
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:18 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsA ground-breaking literary anthology specifi- Mysteries -= Continued from page 70
cally geared to teenagers, Growing Up Gay ed. by
Bennett Singer, collects over 50 coming of age sto- advance copy, but the cover art doesn’t bode well.)
ries and pairs them with older writers’ reflections This would appear to be a contemporary mystery
on growing up lesbian or gay. Includes fiction by with mystical/fantasy elements. The protagonist is
James Baldwin, Rita Mae Brown and David Leavitt Jennifer Talldeer, an Osage private investigator and
and autobiographical essays by Audre Lorde, shaman-in-training who also works to return stolen
Quentin Crisp and Martina Navratilova. Bennett Native American artifacts to their tribal owners.
Singer was an associate producer for the acclaimed The mystical element comes in when desecration of
PBS series Eyes on the Prize. $21.95 cl, 1-56584-102- burial grounds “have roused the powerful spirit
6. The New Press, New York. Distributed by guardians of the dead” — per catalogue copy —
Norton. IN. and Talldeer must use her shamanic powers to pro-
tect the innocent. Lackey lives in Oklahoma, but has
In an effort to “imagine a world in which mas- no other qualifications that I know of to write about
culinity is free of violence” and “in which Osage life and traditions. $23.95, 0-312-85281-9,
women’s lives can be free of fear,” Gill Hague and March, Tor. Kan
Ellen Malos analyze social policy in Domestic
Violence: Action for Change. The book is written
in close cooperation with the Women’s Aid federa-
tions (U.K.) and the refuge movement. It charts
recent changes in the fields of law, policing, hous-
ing and social attitudes. A New Clarion Press title. Some hardcovers of interest from St. Martin’s:
$18.95 pb, 1-873797-06-0. Paul & Company, c/o Death Among the Dons by Janel Neel aspires
PCS Data Processing, Inc., 360 West 31 Street, New to be a contemporary Gaudy Night. The sleuth is a
York NY 10001. policeman’s wife, working part-time at a troubled
London women’s college torn by the debate over
Family Web: A Story of India by Sarah Hobson going co-ed. This appears to be a variation in a
is back in print. It is an English woman’s study of a British series which usually features the husband
family of 26 in southern India. Working as a docu- (Death's Bright Angel, Death on Site, and Death of a
mentary filmmaker, Hobson recorded the family’s Partner, all in print in paper from Pocket). The
way of life and grappled with her own role as an series is unknown to me, but the critical quotes
observer with western attitudes. Hobson is now 46. assembled for the catalogue were impressive.
At 23, she disguised herself as a boy and traveled $19.95, 0-312-10450-2, Jan.
through Iran, recording the culture, religion and art Shattered Rhythms by Phillis Knight, sequel to
of its people (Through Iran in Disguise). $14 pb, 0- Switching the Odds, features a lesbian private eye
89733-050-1. Academy Chicago, 363 West Erie St., from Maine who’s a rock/blues/jazz fanatic. In this
Chicago IL 60610. one she investigates trouble in the band of a leg-
endary jazz guitarist. $20.95, 0-312-10548-7, March.
An American Brat by Bapsi Sidhawa (Cracking The Beekeeper’s Apprentice by Laurie R. King
India and The Crow Eaters) tells the story of sixteen introduces fifteen-year-old Mary Russell, protégée of
year old Pakistani girl, Feroza Ginwalla, who is sent the retired, now beekeeping Sherlock Holmes. This
to America in an effort to reverse the conservative could be a Sherlockian’s delight. $21.95, 0-312-
views that have been imposed on her by fundamen- 10423-5, Feb.
talism. Through Feroza’s eyes we experience what Dead to Rights by Anna Maxes is a first novel
is good in both cultures as she learns to question about a woman investigator for a college athletic
what is not. $21.95 cl, 0-915943-73-5. Milkweed association, looking into a suspicious death on a
Editions, 430 First Avenue North Suite 400, high-ranking college women’s softball team. Go,
Minneapolis MN 55401. IN, BP. o girl! $20.95, 0-312-10449-9, Feb. O
90
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:18 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
TAIL
lafl.
Compiled by Karen Axness, Linda Bryant, Dorothy that changed her understanding of herself: leaving
Holland, Audrey May and Sandi Torkildson. her husband and child, her relationships with men
ANCHOR BOOKS and women. The catalog copy says “it will be must
reading for feminists, the lesbian audience...” $22 cl,
The Furies by Janet Hobhouse. Novel with a 0-449-90522-5, March, Fawcett Columbine.
family of strong, powerful women. Now in paper. In The Sound of a Silver Horn, Kathleen Noble
$11 pb, 0-385-47054-1, Feb. explores the female hero’s journey through the
Conversations: Straight Talk With America’s daily lives of women. She believes the journey
Sister President by Johnnetta B. Cole. Cole was the begins with a summons to awakening, continues
first Black woman president of Spelman College, a with struggles of initiation, and ends with transcen-
liberal arts college for Black women. Here she gives dence of past patterns. Noble uses case histories of
suggestions to help Black women (and all of us) 35 women to demonstrate her theory. $20 cl, 0-449-
break down the walls that hold us back. “Straight” 90588-8, March, Fawcett Columbine.
in the title means “direct” or “clear,” not “het.” $9
pb, 0-385-41160-X, March.
Minding the Body: Women Writers on Body & Zil:
Soul, ed. by Patricia Foster. I think the cover on this
one is inappropriate and exploitive (what's new?), Feminine Ingenuity by Anne L. McDonald
but the book itself looks very interesting. Margaret details 200 years of inventions by women, from the
Atwood, Naomi Wolf and others contribute to dis- brown paper grocery bag to Liquid Paper. $14 pb,
cussion of the psychological and political aspects of 0-345-38314-1, March, Ballantine.
a woman's body in today’s culture. $20, 0-385- For stores with large New Age collections,
47022-3, May. Marianne Williamson's A Woman’s Worth is com-
—Dorothy Holland ing out in paperback ($10 pb, 0-345-38657- 4, April,
The Book Garden/Denver CO Ballantine). My Love Affair With England is Susan
Allen Toth’s traveler's memoir, a love letter to
BALLANTINE PUBLISHING GROUP Great Britain. $10 pb, 0-345-38565-9, April,
(Hardcover and Trade Paperback) Ballantine.
Still no word on when Women Who Run With Daughters of the House by Indrani Aikath-
the Wolves will be out in paperback. Gyaltsen is her first novel and set in rural India.
Marge Piercy’s new novel, The Longings of Daughters is now making its first appearance in
Women is the story of three women whose lives trade paperback. Well received in hardcover, it con-
intersect at a moment of crisis. At 464 pages it cerns an extended family of women and the unwel-
Msh ao ru cl hd , p Fl ae was ce e t tm a Cn oy l u mfa bn is n. e .$22 cl, 0-449-90907-7, c Bo am llae n ta ir nr ei v Oal n eo f W a o r lm d.an. $10 pb, 0-345-38655-8, Jan.,
Crossing the Border by Kim Chernin, subtitled I, Tituba, Black Witch of Salem by Maryse
“An Erotic Journey,” examines the events in her life Conde is an historical but fictional novel of the life
Volume 16 Number 5 91 January 1994
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:18 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsof the only black victim of the Salem witch trials. torical and contemporary women, providing practi-
$10 pb, 0-345-38420-2, Jan., Ballantine One World. cal insights on working through potentially destruc-
Finally in paperback, Daughters of Africa edit- tive behavior to more creative lives. $12.95 pb, 0-
ed by Margaret Busby, “an international anthology 553-37318-8, April.
of words and writings by women of African A reminder — Bantam books appear early in
descent from the ancient Egyptian to the present.” the month preceding the publication date. Direct
$19.95 pb, 0-345-38268-4, Feb., Ballantine One orders must be at least $50 at cost, but get a 46%
World, 1152pp. discount on trade paperback and free freight.
Encouragements for the Emotionally Abused — Karen Axness
Woman by Beverly Engel is a companion volume of A Room Of One's Own/Maison WI
support and reassurance to the author's previous
book The Emotionally Abused Woman. Organized to
follow the path of recovery, it contains encouraging Zil:
reminders and therapeutic information for the
stages of recognition of abuse, escape, and healing. DELACORTE PRESS
$9 pb, 0-449-90878-X, March, Fawcett Columbine. I Could Do Anything If I Only Knew What It
Thinking Out Loud by Anna Quindler is a col- Was: How to Discover What You Really Want and
lection of her columns from The New York Times How to Get It by Barbara Sher with Barbara Smith.
($12 pb, 0-449-90905-0, April, Fawcett Columbine). Sher is the author of Wishcraft: How to Get What You
Her earlier collection Living Out Loud will make Really Want which is a staple for most stores. The
its first appearance in trade paperback. $12 pb, 0- book is designed to help readers create goals based
449-90912-3, April, Fawcett Columbine. It was pre- on their own desires. Looks good to me, although
viously available in mass market. being in cloth may be a disadvantage. $19.95 cl, 0-
385-30788-8, April.
" Debating Affirmative Action: Race, Gender,
l| l l: Ethnicity & the Politics of Inclusion, ed. by
BANTAM Nicolaus Mill. Looks like a good source for infor-
(Trade Paperback) mation on both sides of this current issue. $10.95
Proud to Be by Amy E. Dear is a collection of pb, 0-385-31221-0, April.
daily meditations and affirmations for lesbians and Hot and Bothered: Sex & Love in the Nineties
gay men. The author lectures nationally on issues of by Wendy Dennis. “Letting loose in the bedroom
lesbian and gay pride. The meditations range from without compromising feminist principles” says the
personal concerns to community issues and include book jacket. No mention of Lesbian sexuality that I
recovery and family relationships as well as can find, although for straights, it looks good. $9.95
activism and discrimination. $8.95 pb, 0-553-37282- pb, 0-440-50580-1, April.
3, Feb. Coming in paper this March is Leaving Cold
Natalie Goldberg’s spiritual memoir Long Sassy by Olive Ann Burns. $8.95 pb, 0-385-31220-2.
Quiet Highway, which details her awakening from
a suburban childhood, was very well-received in DOUBLEDAY
hardback. $10.95, 0-553-37315-3, March. Wild Cat by Karen Kijewski (pronounced Key-
Six Practical Lessons for an Easier Childbirth EV-ski). The fifth Kat Colorado mystery. Kijewski
by Elisabeth Bing is the third revised edition of this says Kat is “strong, independent, resourceful” with
classic book on the Lamaze method for pregnant a “commitment to making the world a better place.”
women and their partners. $9.95, 0-553- 37369-2, Her books sell well for us in paper, probably worth
March. a try in cloth. $19.95 cl, 0-385-46851-2, Feb.
Meeting the Madwoman by Linda Schierse Ruffly Speaking: A Dog Lover's Mystery by
Leonard, a Jungian analyst, explores the Madwoman Susan Conant.” The bizarre behavior of a hearing
in myth, literature, film, dreams, and the lives of his- guide dog and the accidental poisoning death of a
92
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:18 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
FIAN
local bookseller Holly Winter and her two Alaskan fans will enjoy this one. “Includes essays, poems,
malamutes.” Conant’s other mysteries (also involv- short stories and memoirs by women on the subject
ing the malamutes) sell very well for us. There of baseball, both as played by men and watched by
must be some dog lovers out there. $18.95 cl, 0-385- women and as played by women.” $22.95 cl, 0-571-
47037-1, March. 19819-8, Feb.
Just As I Am by E. Lynn Harris. Gay Black men Infinite Riches: Modern Short Stories, ed. by
finding love in the face of racism, homophobia and Lynn Knight. Features Willa Cather, Colette, Tillie
AIDS. Promotional material calls it a sweeping Olsen and more. Looks good. $14.95 pb, 0-571-
romance. $21.95 cl, 0-385-46969-1, March. 19824-4.
Deadly Allies II: The Private Eye Writers of Love & Loss: Stories of the Heart, ed. by
America and Sisters in Crime, ed. by Robert Georgina Hammick. Twenty-one stories by women
Randisi & Susan Dunlap. The first Deadly Allies sold writers of this century: Elizabeth Bowen, Alice
well for us. Includes Joan Hess, Susan Dunlap, Munro, Dorothy Parker, and others. Also looks
Carolyn Hart and others. Includes some male writ- good. $12.95 pb, 0-571-19825-2.
ers. $18.95 c], 0-385-42468-X, April. Examining Myself: One Woman’s Story of
Bulletproof Diva, or How I Invented Breast Cancer Treatment & Recovery by Musa
Multiculturalism by Lisa Jones is subtitled, “Tales Mayer. I haven’t seen this one, but the contents
of Race, Sex, and Hair.” Jones writes the popular sound quite good: medical aspects from biopsy,
“Skin Trade” column for the Village Voice. The list diagnosis through mastectomy; also explores the
of topics sounds great: “Genitalia and the psychological dimensions of breast cancer. $19.95
Paycheck,” “Too Black, Too Female.” $20 cl, 0-385- cl, 0-57 1-19828-7 .
47122-X, April.
Everything A Working Mother Needs To
Know (About Pregnancy Rights, Maternity Leave,
and Making Her Career Work for Her) by Anne
Cicero Weisberg & Carol A. Buckler. Designed to FOUR WALLS EIGHT WINDOWS
give women the personal, legal and financial tools Simple Passion, by Annie Ernaux. This book
we need to keep it together. $14.95 pb, 0-385-75741- tells the love affair between a woman and a mar-
8, Feb. ried man. A Woman's Story by Ernaux has sold well.
Anchor /Doubleday is doing a Gay Pride This one should, too. $14.95 cl, 1-56858-0037.
Promotion — of the seven books featured, two are —Dorothy Holland
by women. A reprint of The Well of Loneliness is one, The Book Garden/Denver CO
and the other is House Rules, by Heather Lewis
($21.95 c], 0-385-47210-2, April). Catalog blurb says HARPER SAN FRANCISCO
it's a novel about “a world where the border Witchcraze: A New History of the European
between pleasure and pain has become blurred Witch Hunts by Ann L. Barstow, looks like one we
beyond distinction.” Not my idea of the ideal books will all want to have. Described in the catalog as “a
for Gay Pride. Come on publishers! brilliant, authoritative feminist history that exposes
an unrecognized holocaust — the ethnic cleansing
FABER & FABER of independent women in Reformation Europe,”
Diamonds Are a Girl's Best Friend: Women the book explores the use of sexual violence and
Writers on Baseball, ed. by Elinor Nauen. Baseball death as a means of social control of women. The
93 January 1994
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:18 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
s l EF
E.L i
Iil. HÈ
author also ties in those earlier patterns to present- clastic bishop of Newark and author of Born of a
day social conditions in Bosnia and elsewhere. The Woman and Living in Sin has a new book out just in
cover is a chilling color drawing of two women time to get the fundamentalists frothing at Easter-
hanging from a gibbet. This looks like a necessary tide. Entitled Resurrection: Myth or Reality—A
book. The book will be advertised in the NY Review Bishop Rethinks the Origins of Christianity, the
of Books and Women’s Review of Books and will be an book focuses on death and rebirth. May be useful
alternate selection in the BOTM and QPB book for stores that sell Christian feminism ($20 cl, 0-06-
clubs. $25 cl, 0-06-250049-X. 067346-2, March). Another title for a similar audi-
ence is Ancient Magic: Coptic Texts of Ritual Power
Zil edited by Marvin Meyer and Richard Smith. This
book is “a collection of rites, spells, amulets, curses,
Finally! I feel like I've been waiting for years for and recipes of the early Coptic Christians that
this to come out in paperback. Marija Gimbutas’ demonstrates that Christianity was a living folk
Civilization of the Goddess is “a fully illustrated, religion resembling other primal religions.” Of the
authoritative, and unequivocally stunning compila- spells listed, my favorites were “ a curse to make a
tion of evidence showing the existence of a neolithic man tongue-tied” and “a woman’s complaint about
goddess-centered culture in prepatriarchal Europe. neglect.” $25 cl, 0-06-065578-X.
‘Nuff said. Get it. The liner notes on the drawings Lilith magazine editor Aviva Cantor has written
alone are worth the price. $30 pb, 0-06-250804-0. a book entitled, Jewish Women, Jewish Men: The
Mary Daly’s Outercourse: The Be-Dazzling Legacy of Patriarchy in Jewish Life that should be
Journey... is now available in paperback from out just in time for Passover. Cantor examines how
HarperSF ($13 pb, 0-06-250207-7), as is Webster's every aspect of Jewish life has been affected by patri-
First New Intergalactic Wickedary of the English archal values and by stereotypes of Jewish mothers;
Language by Mary Daly and Jane Caputi. $17 pb, 0- she also poses transformations possible through fem-
06-251037-1. inist values. $30 cl, 0-06-061376-9, March.
Another hardcover now in paper is Anne
Wilson Schaef’s Beyond Therapy, Beyond Science: /:li
A New Model for Healing the Whole Person ($12
pb, 0-06-250833-4, Feb.). Irene O'Garden’s Fat Girl Since it appeared in Ms. in the mid-70s, many of
now has a sequel—The Fat Girl Companion ($10 us have used our torn-out and xeroxed copies of
pb, 0-06-250854-7, Feb.). For biography fans, Diana The Women’s Haggadah for our women’s passover
Souhami (author of Gertrude and Alice has written services. Written by E. M. Broner (author of The
Greta and Cecil, a dual biography of actress Greta Telling, in which this haggadah figures prominent-
Garbo and photographer Cecil Beaton. The book ly, and A Weave of Women, and Naomi Nimrod, The
promises to reveal, among other things, Garbo’s Women’s Haggadah is now available in book form
relationships with women. $22 c], 0-06-250829-6. at a very reasonable price. This book is a feminist
HarperSF is coming out with a new edition of classic used by Jewish and non-Jewish women alike
the popular and useful Is the Homosexual My to celebrate our struggles and our various visions of
Neighbor? Revised and Updated: A Positive liberation. $10 pb, 0-06-061143-X, Feb.
Christian Response by Letha D. Scanzoni and les- A spirituality /healing /ecology title is Sastun:
bian feminist theologian Virginia R. Mollenkott ($11 One Woman’s Apprenticeship with a Maya
pb, 0-06-06708-9, Feb.). John Shelby Spong, icono- Healer and Their Efforts to Save the Vanishing
January 1994 94 Volume 16 Number 5
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:18 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Tradition of Rainforest Medicine ($22 c1, 0-06- Think About Food by Kenny Asubel ($18 pb, 0-06-
250255-7, April). For those who carry Lynn 250008-2). The book includes 60 stunning color pho-
Andrews’ books, she has a new meditation book, tos and a seed packet from Seeds of Change, a small
Walk in Balance: Meditations with Lynn company owned by the author and his wife. Seeds
And r Oe lw ds e. r $ T1 h2 a np b , T i m0- e0 :6 - A25 0 W00 o9 m-0 a, n M Ta rr ac vh e. ls Around o aif r e dC h a inn g e s p ris in gt h e 1 9 9t 4o .pic of a PBS documentary to be
the World in Search of the Wisdom That Comes
With Age by Allegra Taylor is what it sounds like: a Book J , e hn an si f e nr o w L o wud re in tt, e na u t Th ho er C o of u p T leh 'se CW omom foan rt’s BC oo om k:fort
collection of stories about strong, robust, wise old A Creative Guide for Renewing Passion, Pleasure
women from various cultures. $10 pb, 1-85538-152-4. and Commitment ($14 pb, 0-06-250853-9). The
India’s Bandit Queen: The Story of Phoolan sequel doesn’t look as good as the first one but it
Devi by Mala Sen is the biography of an Indian may have some fun stuff. Another “maybe” is
woman who fought back against the strictures of Weddings by Design: A Guide to Non-Traditional
sex and caste to refuse an arranged marriage, seek Ceremonies by Richard Leviton ($14 pb, 0-006-
revenge for a rape and kidnaping, and eventually 251007-X). Says it offers “multicultural, nonpatriar-
become India’s most wanted “bandit” and a hero- chal and nonsexist options” (like lesbian serial
ine to many. Devi’s story is about to be made into a monogamy, perhaps?) Along the same lines but
film. $13 pb, 0-04-440888-9. probably more useful is The Essential Guide to
Lesbian and Gay Weddings by Tess Ayers and
Zil: Paul Brown ($16 pb, 0-06-250271-9, Feb.).
New spirituality books include A Woman’s Merist e— m A /u Mdr eey m J p. h M isa y TN
Guide to Spiritual Renewal ($14 pb, 0-06-250882-2,
March) by Nelly Kaufer and Carol Osmer- PENGUIN USA
Newhouse and A Woman's Spirit: More (paperbacks)
Meditations for Women from the author of Each At The Sign Of The Naked Waiter by Amy
D Da ay u ga h N te ew r B oe fgi n n ti hng e ($ G10 o d p db e, s s0 :- 0 6 T-2 h5 e52 8 2 S- a1 c, r M edar c h P) r. iestess H see nr sr ei c k o f i s h ua m c oo rm ain ng d- o af - a bg oe u n n do lev se sl it mh aa gt i nc ao tm iob ni .n e Is t a `
($14 pb, 1-85538-280-6) is by a self-proclaimed tells the tale of Sarah who encounters a naked,
priestess of Isis, Naomi Ozaniec. The author sur- winged man, extraterrestrial sponges, rivalrous
veys numerous religions and cultures across the ghosts and enchanted frogs, and gods disguised as
globe to assess the role of the priestess. Venus beggars on her path to adulthood. Sarah also
Rising: Rediscovering the Goddess and Her searches to find a soulmate, confronts a friend’s
Planet ($15 pb,1-85528-006-4, March) by Ronnie plunge into madness and faces the challenges of
Gale Dreyer is an exploration into the various love, marriage and motherhood. $9.95 pb, 0-14-
aspects of Venus on the zodiac. Images examined
range from Sumerian Inanna to the Venus of the
Re n Wa ei ls cs oa mn ec e H o mpa ei : n Ft oin llog w. in : g Your Soul’s A collection of 4 s1 hort B stories by Rebecca
Journey Home ($13 pb, 0-06-250267-0, Feb.) by Goldstein, Strange Attractors, explores the interac-
Sandra Ingerman is a new book on shamanic jour- tions of thought and feeling, mind and heart, to
neying by the author of Soul Retrieval. Jamie Sams reveal the deep mysteries between seemingly unre-
Writes that this book “marks the Rite of Passage lated lives. Goldstein probes the relationship
every Spirit must take to become healed.” between female intellect and emotion and the influ-
Another ecology title and gift for our friends ence of gender roles on women’s lives. $9.95 pb, 0-
who garden is Seeds of Change: The Passionate 14-017246-7, Feb.
Story of the Growing Movement to Restore Yoruba Girl Dancing by Simi Bedford is the
Biodiversity and Revolutionize the Way We poignant and funny story of an African girl’s trans-
Volume 16 Number 5 95
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:18 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
H 3
Ilil. IL lal Aih
ference into an upper-class English girl’s school. RANDOM HOUSE - Group I
Remi has grown up in Nigeria surrounded by tribal Chiquita’s Cocoon by Bettina Flores is
festivals, the love of parents, grandparents and a life addressed to Latina women who want to break out
that is a celebration of love, family and old rituals. of cyclical poverty, large-family conditioning, reli-
At the age of six, she is sent to an English boarding gious repression and machismo. This book features
school, the only Black girl in a school of upper-class vignettes about 200 women who Flores inter-
white girls with very strange rituals. Remi navigates viewed. The book also includes a self-help section,
the labyrinth of race, caste, and culture, taking noth- to aid in self-awareness. English edition, 0-679-
ing lying down and emerges victorious and 75044-4; Spanish edition, 0-679-75073-8, $13.50 pb.
changed forever. $9.95 pb, 0-14-023293-1, Feb.
A mix of virtual reality and feminism makes Zil:
Sue Thomas’ novel, Correspondence, a remarkable
book. This story about a woman and a machine A collection of essays by Marion Winik, a
blurs the boundaries between virtual reality and nationally syndicated columnist and regular on
real life and examines the interconnections between National Public Radio’s “All Things Considered,”
fantasy, desire and memory. The reader assumes Telling is bold, shocking, frank and witty. The
the role of the narrator, a computer programmer pieces in this collection cover breast-feeding in
who is a compositor of the world’s hopes and public, family pets, heroin, siblings, AIDS and the
desires, to create a kind of virtual reality death of a father. $18 cl, 0-679-42856-3, Feb.
Disneyland. $10.95 pb, 0-87951-529-5, Feb. Mary Cassatt, a new biography by Nancy M.
Free by Marsha Hunt, (author of Joy) paints a Mathews, is the result of twenty years of research.
portrait of race relations in 1913 Germantown, Mathews resolves the paradoxes of Cassatt’s life; she
Pennsylvania. This novel tells the story of the rela- was a rich American aristocrat who preferred the
tionship formed between a young Englishman and company of struggling artists; she never married yet
a poor Black stableboy. In defiance of the limita- her portraits of mothers and children have made her
tions of race, class and social mores, they form a world-renowned. $26 cl, 0-394-58497-X, March
friendship against the backdrop of pre-World War I The Wives Of Henry VIII by Antonia Fraser
America. $9.95 pb, 0-452-27061-8. rescues Henry’s unfortunate wives from popular
stereotypes and restores them to recognizable
Zil: human dimensions. Fraser unravels the web that
raised Henry’s consorts to the throne and some-
This Little Light Of Mine by Kay Mills is the times brought them to the chopping block. $14 pb,
biography of Fannie Lou Hamer, one of the most 0-679-73001-X.
important figures of the Civil Rights movement. Anita Brookner’s novel Fraud reconstructs the
Fannie Lou Hamer rose from difficult circum- life of Anna Durrant who has disappeared from her
stances to dedicate her life to battling racism and London flat. Her disappearance goes unnoticed for
poverty. Her tireless struggle for equality and vot- four months. We get to know Anna through the eyes
ing rights for Black people changed the lives of all of her acquaintances and through a study of social,
Americans. Mills interviewed scores of friends, rel- fiscal and moral frauds. $11 pb, 0-679-74308-1.
atives and fellow protesters as well as Hamer her- Truck Stop Rainbows by Czech writer Iva
self for the inspiring testimony to the power of one Pekarkova is an exuberant novel of sex, hitchhiking,
spirited individual. $12.95 pb, 0-452-27052-9, Feb. and social sabotage. The heroine, Fialka Jourova, is
January 1994 96
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:18 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
FAH A
N
a dedicated guerrilla photographer (who specializes two full color photographs show off these works of
in snapshots of environmental catastrophes) and a practicality, simplicity and purity that reflect the
canny hitchhiker (who is an uninhibited seducer of essence of Amish principles. $30 pb, 0-679-75142-4.
truck drivers). Fialka finds herself torn between new Women Lawyers by Mona Harrington looks at
freedoms and her desire to help the one friend she key issues holding women back in a predominantly
truly loves. $11 pb, 0-679-74678-7. male profession. Based on more than 100 interviews
Jeanette Winterson’s latest novel, Written on with women lawyers, this book gives a voice to the
the Body, is a love story told in the voice of a non- experiences of women lawyers: some have adapted
gender specific narrator who is in love with a mar- to the cultural codes of big-firm law; others have
ried woman. However, I felt she was a woman opened new and alternative firms or taught in
from the beginning and wonder if anyone would small public law schools, while still others have
think differently. $11 pb, 0-679-74447-9, Feb.
Technical Difficulties by June Jordan, African Zil
American poet, activist, essayist and teacher, is a
collection of essays on contemporary themes that worked in prosecutors’ offices and courtrooms.
include: searching for the American dream, the These women are devising new rules and legal the-
myths of race and class, poverty of American edu- ories to bring about change. $24 cl, 0-394-58025-7.
cation and the testimony of Anita Hill. An addition- A new novel by Wendy Law-Yone (author of
al essay on the 1992 Los Angeles rebellion that did The Coffin Tree) Irrawaddy Tango tells the story of a
not appear in the cloth edition is included in the sharp-tongued, tango-dancing Asian girl who rises
paperback. $12 pb, 0-679-74762-1, Feb. from village girlhood to become the wife of her
The political and personal memoir of a woman country’s dictator and, then, a leader of the guerril- `
who grew up during China’s Cultural Revolution, la movement against him. $23 cl, 0-679-42192-0.
Red Azalea is written by Anchee Min. Min is the Life Estates is a novel by Shelby Hearon that
actress who played the leading role in the political explores friendship and loss between two women
opera Red Azalea written by Madame Mao. As a in their mid-fifties, who have been friends since
young student and Red Guard member, Anchee boarding school. Now widowed, living thousands
of mile apart, a life-and-death crisis brings them
Zil: together again. Widowhood has meant new free-
dom for Sarah who finds reward in owning a small
was asked to betray and publicly humiliatė a business and sexual fulfillment with a man in his
beloved teacher. She was a prize student but not sixties; While for Harriet, widowhood means the
Permitted to attend college. Instead, she was sent to loss of her role as a wife. She buys a gun for protec-
the Red Fire Farm, where she endured grueling tion and attempts to gain the attention of a younger
Physical labor. She fell in love with her platoon man. $22 c], 0-679-41539-4, Feb.
leader and the two women lived in fear of exposure Penelope Leach presents an urgent and power-
by a vindictive colleague. Min now lives in the U.S. ful argument for the creation of economic and
with her husband and young daughter. $22 c], 0- social support systems for children in Children
679-42332-X, Feb. First. Leach sees our culture's paradox that spends
The beautiful bright quilts of the Amish women millions of dollars on miracle science to help chil-
i of Lancaster County, Pennsylvania are collected in dren be born and then turns its back as these chil-
Amish: The Art Of The Quilt by Julie Silber. Eighty- dren attempt growth and development. She pre-
Volume 16 Number 5 January 1994
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:18 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
s l NSN
iil. H B isl.. s .ALI Li
sents specific steps by which we as individuals and tions and affirmations by and about women. $16 c|,
as a society can fashion a new economic priority for 0517592487, March.
all children. $24 cl, 0-679-42133-5, Feb.
The Heart That Bleeds by journalist Alma RH - KNOPF
Guillermoprieto is a collection of essays on Latin Irrawaddy Tango by Wendy Law-Yone. A
America. She writes about the communities of novel that moves from a fictitious Asian country to
Mexico's garbage-pickers, the amiable young the US. Haven’t read any of this, but when I asked
killers-for-hire in a Colombia terrorized by drug my rep, he said to definitely order a couple. He’s
traffickers, the election of Violeta Chamorro as new to me, so I'll see if he’s right — I think it will
president of Nicaragua, the cocaine problems in probably go better in paper. $23 cl, 0679421920.
Panama, and the legacy of the American invasion.
$23 cl, 0-679-42884-4, Feb. —Sandi Torkildson RH - PANTHEON/SHOCKEN
A Room of One's Own/Madison WI The Lives Of Michel Foucault by David Macey.
With our feminist and lesbian/gay scholars, any-
thing serious about Foucault is important, though
Zil: at this price, I will order one at a time. Written with
the cooperation of Foucault's former lover, this
RANDOM HOUSE - Group II book explores the philosopher's life and work. $30
RH - CROWN cl, 0679430741.
Women, Passion, and Celibacy by Sally Cline. Red Azalea by Anchee Min. Sounds like an
According to Cline, “through celibacy, a woman amazing book — a memoir that is both political and
learns to take risks, to grow up, to make decisions, erotic about a woman growing up during China’s
to live on her own, to value other women...” Cultural Revolution. The excerpt in the catalogue
Sounds like a refreshing take on our culture’s makes me long to read it and learn more of this
obsession with genital sex. $20 cl, 0517597381,Feb. woman who now lives in the U.S. $22 cl,
Friends For Life by Meg Wolitzer. A novel of 067942332X, Feb. —Linda Bryant
friendship among three women who have met at Charis Books/Atlanta GA O
least once a month for 20 years - one is a lesbian, at
least at this point in their lives. Wolitzer wrote This Our Press... continued from page 81
is Your Life, which was made into a film. $20 c|,
0517595869, March. Ibárruri by Robert Low. Known as La Pasionaria for
Grace Unfolding: Psychotherapy in the Spirit her role in the Spanish Civil War, Ibárruri was both
of the Tao-te-ching by Greg Johnson and Ron a leader and a symbol of the leftist forces that lost,
Kurtz. Obviously not by women, but I have already finally, to fascism in Spain. The lived in exile in the
had several requests for this book from regular cus- Soviet Union for many years and finally returned to
tomers Who want it as soon as it comes in paper, so Spain with the end of the Franco regime in 1977. “A
if you do much business with the psychotherapy scrupulously fair portrait of this legendary figure
community, you might want to try it. $10 pb, offering fascinating insights into her personal as
0517881306, March. well as political life. Her story is at once inspiring
New Woman’s Diary: A Journal for Women in and traumatic...” $39.95 cl, 0-09-174572-1.
Search of Themselves by Judith Finlayson. Sounds Virago titles are distributed in the U.S. by
like a beautiful journal, interspersed with reflec- Trafalgar Square, N. Pomfret VT 05053. O
January 1994 98 Volume 16 Number 5
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:18 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
am
ASNS en Eighth Mountain Press.
HarperSanFrancisco..
the author of A Safe Place To Sleep
$9.95, 184 pages, 0-9634075-1-1
Lizzie Brown /Pleiad
Naiad Press . |
fict if orL noe /ms mb i ya On suterry aO n i d r oS S n gA i e Ot N B o yE o oS k u p rRe e o cp u[ lC e set o oEoJ mr o e rI n s lE a hnA od o, ked
Power Press
_ University of Chicago Press
Music ... Continued from page 72 University of Texas Press...
motional mailings to bookstores, aiming primarily
at the feminist bookstores. This is little short of a
miracle, given the fact that the majors have tradi-
tionally refused to provide promotional copies of
their releases to anyone other than record store Upcoming Releases
chains and radio stations. The mailing lists are built ° Tori Amos/Under The Pink; February
around the FBN list, plus other stores that market- ° Barrett & Smith/The Heart is the Only Nation;
ing reps are aware of. Artists include Zap Mama, First quarter
Djur Djura, Heidi and several others albums like ° Heather Bishop/CD issue of A Taste of the
The Joy Luck Club Soundtrack. Blues; March
This is a good time to review your inventory with ° Mary Black/Re-Issue of By the Time It Gets
your distributor. While most stores trim their overall Dark; First quarter
stock of music during the winter, keeping good selection ° Rory Block/Angel of Mercy; January
of new titles and trying a select a few new artists can help • Shawn Colvin/Title unknown; First half
keep customers checking the music racks to see what's ° Susan Herrick/Title unknown; First half
new. This may also be a good time to begin building ° Mango Mango (formerly Mango Jam); Spring
inventory on new genres that you might be ready to try. ° Loreena McKennitt/The Mask & Mirror; First
For example, if you have drums as a sideline and they quarter
_ sold well during the holidays, this is perfect timing to ° C arrFie Neewcobmer/rAn uAngeal Art Myy Sho uld er;O
build or expand your drumming or chant section.
Volume 16 Number 5 January 1994
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:18 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
POSITIONS AVAILABLE Contact Gay Young, 700 Washington St., Suite 3
Upper, NY NY 10014. 212-691-3124.
Publicist for Chronicle Books. Responsible for serial
sales and implementation of publicity campaigns for Inventory Specialist for Feminist Bookstores. Piles
assigned titles. Requires 2-3 years of book publicity of catalogs getting you down? Can't bear to look at
experience, excellent communication and organiza- yet another “front list?” Hire me to review your cat-
tional skills, as well as flexibility, creativity and alogs and make recommendations to you based on
interest in a broad range of books. For further infor- your store’s inventory and sales. Services available
mation contact Sarah McFall Bailey at 415-777-8878. on an hourly basis or monthly contract. Inventory
recommendations can be made to fit your style —
SERVICES AVAILABLE by phone, fax, modem, mail. Dorothy Holland: 307-
733-5349; Box 2782, Jackson WY 83001.
Experienced Editor can handle anything from light
copy editing to heavy rewrite, fiction or nonfiction. FOR SALE
Rigorous but sensitive. Publishers preferred; writ-
ers considered. Contact Susanna J. Sturgis, PO Box Dreams and Shadows: A Journal is a 224 8x11 page
39, West Tisbury MA 02575; 508-693-7109. book printed on quality vellum featuring 50 new
drawings with ample space for journal keeping.
Experienced Editor offers editing, copy editing, Comes shrink wrapped with a bookmark. Retail
proofreading and writing services. Reasonable $17.95. Bookstores receive 40% discount and pay
rates. References available. Contact Ann at Feminist postage. Order 10 and get one free if ordered direct-
Bookstore News, 415-626-1556. ly: Sudie Rakusin/Journal, Rt. 3 Box 648,
Hillsborough NC 27278. Distributed by Inland and
Attorney. Review of literary contracts and other New Leaf. Also postcards — 12 images, $.35 each,
publishing related legal services. Moderate fees. write for samples.
)3 )M É Rcc International Guide to Periodicals of Interest to
Feminists, Lesbians, and Gay Men. Over 400 list-
D LUNA PRESS ed! $9 ppd to Tsunami Records, PO Box 42282,
) PO BOX 511, Kenmore Station C Tucson AZ 85733.
Boston, MA 02215USA @
» ? 9(6197)9 4027 - 98€46 € CLASSIFIED ADS
FBN Classified Ads $2 per 50 characters. 25% dis-
THE LUNAR CALENDAR: count for 3+ insertions paid at one time. Payment
Dedicated to the Goddess in Her Many Guises must accompany ad. No charge for “Help
$17.70 postpaid We ship gifts everywhere W POan t e Bd” o x l is t 8in 8g 2s 5 5u 4p , t o S a1 n00 Fw ro ard ns c. i sS cen od , t Co A F B N 9, 4188. ©
January 1994 100 Volume 16 Number 5
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:18 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsКАМОРОМ
КІМОМЕЅ$
ЗМЗ 55 АСТУ
ОРББЕА ПУ
Бу Аппе Негегі
& Могдогеі М. Раме!
агі Ву Моушті Об
Іп 1982, Аппе Неегі мгоїе “Ргасіїсв Кіпіі-
пеѕз опо Ѕепзејекз Асіз о Веашіу Ті
Беооїћиі ргесері Ведоп іо арреог еугу-
меге — 0л дагеп дое, оп Битрег зї-
егз апа роѕіегз апі їп Боокс.
Тойу, ће һоз јоїпеі мії Магдагеі Роуеі іо
ехрапі ег зііетелі іпіо а ромегіі те-
заде Ғог ошг йез, апі ког оі аде.
Фегуеі Гот 121№-сепішгу Неіап-регіоі
Јарапеѕе рісіиге зогоћ еаіштіпо Косі
апіттоі, ће агі Бу Мауштті Оо егде рег-
Тесу мії їе хі, оз іЁіће їмо меге стеоіед
Тодейһег.
к
(А5 Үоісапо Ргеѕѕ/ Катап Воок5
Үоісапо, Саїкогліа
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:18 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsACWSYS]
VA
aAA LOAA Ra aOR la DIRS A brilliant, feminist history
that exposes an unrecognized
holocaust—the “ethnic
cleansing” of independent
women in Reformation
Europe—and examines
the residual attitudes that
influence our culture.
Hardcover • $25.00
ISBN 0-06-250049-X
IEU
Anhi IBIS
O D
The author of The Woman’s
Comfort Book (more than
100,000 copies sold!) turns her
winning formula into a fun-filled
resource for couples to keep
al their relationsh iwpitsh ssexu, p loevre,c hanad r fgrieenddship.
y Paperback • $14.00
i ihn 0) innn ISBN 0-06-250853-9
women’s
Available as a book for the first
RS time, an elegant and newly
revised gift edition of E. M.
Broner’s Haggadah—a feminist
retelling of the Passover story
that women have treasured for
nearly two decades.
Paperback • $10.00
ISBN 0-06-06 1143-X
& HarperSanFrancisco
AA ls oD i vaivsaioilna b loef f Hroarmp e rHCaorlplienrsCPoulblilnisshCearnsada Ltd.
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:18 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsReprinted from:
ers such as Daughters, Diana, the
F em inbeisetn bsotorkosntgoerre.s Nhuamveb enreinvger at Women’s Press Collective, and
least 135 in the United States and Shameless Hussy began publishing a
Canada, with combined gross sales in few feminist and/or lesbian titles; we
1992 of $35 million, feminist book- now have at least 154 feminist or les-
stores are a formidable grassroots bian presses publishing over 300 titles
industry. For over twenty years, femi- per year, along with 300 to 400 inde-
nist booksellers have balanced sound
business practices with political com- nist and lesbian books.
mitment to their communities. The Having said all of that, I do not
result has been, in most cases, thriving wish to paint an overly rosy picture of
bookstores that, in addition to provid- feminist bookstore land. Like all inde-
ing books, periodicals, music, and pendent booksellers, we are facing
sidelines unavailable anywhere else, tremendous predatory competition
offer a multitude of community ser- from the chains and superstores (huge
vices such as bulletin boards, reading chain stores carrying, on average,
and community events, referrals to over 100,000 books in each location).
social services, and meeting places for Currently 40 percent of all books are
women. Who among us hasn't gone sold by chains, primarily by
to our local feminist bookstore to find Waldenbooks and Borders
a roommate, support group, therapist, Bookstores (both owned by the
woman carpenter, or tickets for the K-Mart Corporation with revenues of
Sweet Honey in the Rock concert? $39 billion last year), Barnes &
When Lioness Books in Noble which also owns B. Dalton,
Sacramento, California, opened in and the Crown Book Corporation.
1981, our entire stock could fit on a However, industry spokespeople pre-
few shelves; now we fill 2,500 square dict that the voracious proliferation
feet of store space with about 15,000 of superstores (Barnes & Noble plans
titles. Like all feminist bookstores, we to open 150 new superstores by the
have grown with the proliferation of end of 1993) could mean the end of
feminist publishers, periodicals, many independent and specialty
authors, and most importantly, audi- bookstores. The Sacramento Bee
ence. In the early 70s, a few publish- Continued on next page
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:18 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsContinued from previous page works stay forever. We all know what he means by
(November 16, 1992) quotes Lois Connelly, assistant “classic.” And he doesn’t mean 99 percent of the
director of investor relations at K-Mart, “We think books carried by feminist bookstores.
superstores will become the dominant channel of The chains are also capitalizing on the lesbian and
book distribution within five years.” gay markets, having discovered that we buy so many
The marketing strategy of superstores is to move books. However, the chains primarily stock main-
into a location well established by one or more inde- stream press titles, so don’t expect to find most of
pendent or specialty bookstores, target the indepen- your favorite authors there. Few lesbian authors are
dent’s customer base, and use a combination of dis- published by the big houses. Mainstream publishers
counting, publisher-sponsored advertising, big-name want a track record before they’re willing to risk
author appearances and, to many, questionable ethi- money. Most lesbian authors now published by the
cal practices to outsell their competitors. big houses, such as Dorothy Allison, Sarah Schulman,
A young man recently told me that you can never and Jeanette Winterson, established their track
have too many bookstores in any community. Others records through the feminist presses and bookstores.
add that the free enterprise system and competition Most new authors don’t have a prayer of being pub-
are the backbone of excellence. That might be true if
the playing field were level. The expertise and experi- womn’t be sold by the chain stores.
ence of feminist booksellers would provide the com- When the mainstream houses do publish lesbian
petitive edge. But the arena is not equitable. The titles (which isn’t often—of the 1993 Lammy nomi-
superstores discount many titles at prices at or below nations, mainstream presses published 65 percent of
what feminist bookstores pay wholesale. It doesn’t gay men’s titles compared with 19 percent of the les-
take mathematical wizardry to figure out that a busi- bian titles), they publish stories they think will play in
ness cannot survive selling products at a loss. Nor are Peoria. Victoria A. Brownworth, in “Desexing the
the chains taking a loss. They have special arrange- Story,” a recent article in the Lambda Book Report,
ments with publishers to purchase books wholesale at describes what happens when lesbian authors go
discounts independents can only dream of. According mainstream—the lesbian sexual content is absent,
to the Federal Trade Commission, “Discrimination in and lesbian characters are presented stereotypically as
prices and terms offered by major book publishers nonsexual friends or as obsessed and dangerous. She
has created two categories of book retailers: favored quotes a gay male editor at a mainstream house:
book retailers (chains) and disfavored retailers (inde- “Who wants to read about two girls getting it on?” If
pendents). Because disfavored retailers pay higher mainstream publishers and chain stores do indeed
prices for their books and have limited access to pub-
lishers’ co-op advertising funds (where the publisher industries, they will destroy the source of literature
pays the store’s advertising costs to promote their that reflects the richness and diversity of lesbian lives.
titles), it is very difficult—often impossible—for disfa- Carol Seajay, publisher of Feminist Bookstore
vored retailers to compete.” William Petrocelli, News (the trade journal for feminist booksellers),
owner of Book Passage in Corte Madera, California, describes the interrelationships among feminist book-
says that the price disparity between what chains and stores, women’s music labels, feminist and lesbian
independents pay for books now appears to be 15 publishers, feminist periodicals, and authors as an
percent or higher. ecosystem. When -each part thrives, the entire system
Superstores also hope to entice customers away is healthy. When one part suffers, the rest feel the
from feminist stores by offering readings by well- effect. Feminist publishers are dependent upon femi-
established authors, such as Gloria Steinem or Rita nist bookstores to carry their books; the chains will
Mae Brown, whose original audiences were built in only order those books they can get at discounts most
feminist stores. Mary Kay Blakely, contributing edi- feminist publishers cannot offer. Without feminist
tor to Ms. magazine and author of Wake Me When bookstores, one would probably never have encoun-
It’s Over, says that 70 percent of the sales of her tered the works of Cherrie Moraga, Kitty Tsui,
books are in feminist bookstores, but her publisher Chrystos, Katherine Forrest, Barbara Wilson, Jewelle
ignored those stores when planning the tour for her Gomez, Dale Spender, or even the works of authors
first book. For her new book, she has chosen a pub- who are household names like Alice Walker, Gloria
lisher respectful of her wishes to include feminist Naylor or Robin Morgan, whose writing was first
stores in the promotion. “My career only stays alive promoted through feminist networks. Many first
because of feminist and women’s bookstores,” she books are hand-sold by feminist booksellers. We
says. “People like me stay in print because feminist know what is important to our political and literary
movements, and we promote books as cultural and
reorder.” According to the Chain Store Age intellectual expressions, not merely as commodities.
Executive journal, the chairman of Bookstop (a Corporate America views books as just another
superstore in Texas and Florida) says that if a new commodity to be sold in mass quantities. Mary
release does not do well (in his stores) in its first few Morrell, co-owner of Full Circle in Albuquerque, New
weeks, it is replaced. However, he adds, the classic Continued on next page
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:18 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsContinued from previous page most of the independents are sorely feeling the
Mexico, says, “When price becomes more important results. A Reader’s Feast, along with fifteen other
than substance, we get cardboard tomatoes, cheap but independent bookstores from around the state, have
tasteless. Then when we want real tomatoes, we have organized the Connecticut Independent Bookseller’s
to pay through the nose.” Morrell adds that the issue Day, during which local authors will read at each of
is difficult because women don’t make the “big the participating stores. The stores will pool money
bucks” in society and cost is an important factor, but from the events to place ads in national media cele-
she compares women’s communities to ethnic com- brating the diversity that independent bookstores
munities. “Ethnic communities that have supported bring to the intellectual environment of the country.
their own businesses have created healthy endeavors They have even gotten financial support from some
that have reinvested in their own communities.” publishers. Miller echoes the sentiments of other fem-
Feminist bookstores reinvest in their communities inist booksellers when she says, “We have a commit-
every day through all the ment to carry and dis-
services they provide. seminate progressive
Feminist bookstores ideas, not merely to sell
are a resource the chains commodities.” She adds,
can never be, according “We do so much more
New Words in last ten years we have
Cambridge, helped innumerable
Massachusetts. “We have women through life
twenty years of history crises, not by counseling
about our communities ` them, but by empower-
and our movement; peo- ing them about the
ple come to us to make choices they have.”
use of the knowledge we Many people assume
hcaovne s iascqtueinretd.. WFoe r a r ee x taom fpemlei,n i stt h tehreoer y w. othna’tt o nme a skalee hae r ed iofr-
we don’t suddenly alter SBRN ference. So what if some-
our face for gay/lesbian one buys Backlash or
book month; we are there for lesbian and bisexual Revolution From Within
women all the time.” When asked how feminist book- at a chain? The independent book business, unlike
sellers are dealing with the competition from the many others, operates on tiny profit margins. Most
chains, they all emphasize customer service, knowl- feminist bookstores are lucky to have a 1 to 3 percent
edge of the literature and their community resources, yearly net profit. Some feminist bookstores have
and dedication. Lammas in Washington, D.C., is not experienced a 10 percent or more decline in sales
waiting for customers to come to them. “We are after a chain store has moved into the neighborhood.
going to lesbian bars, women’s studies instructors, When a business operates on such small margins, it
and any place else to reach women,” says Jane can ill afford even small fluctuations in sales.
Troxell, the new co-owner. “We also organize special To have intellectual, political and literary diversity,
events for the community, such as self-defense classes, we must have diversity in the marketplace. Without
financial planning workshops, camping and rafting feminist bookstores, the kinds of books you see at
trips, and will soon exhibit the only existing lesbian your local store will cease to exist for the most part.
dollhouse (based on Heather Has Two Mommies, by Every time each of us invests in a feminist bookstore,
Leslea Newman).” She adds, laughing, “We may we are helping to protect the range of literature avail-
carry fewer of the mainstream bestsellers, but Crown able: from lesbian and gay novels, to nonsexist, non-
doesn’t have menstrual goddesses or Margie Adam racist children’s books, to goddess-centered books, to
tapes.” feminist theory. The future of progressive and quality
Pokey Anderson of Inkling in Houston, Texas, publishing is in our hands—simply by making con-
points out that “the demands on a feminist book- scious decisions about where we spend our money.
store are high; as well as running a business, we do Sally Owen, co-owner of Judith’s Room in New
referrals, sell tickets, provide emotional support, lis- York City, describes the potential effect of the super-
ten, and lots of other things that can only exist if stores quite simply: “If people buy books at Barnes &
customers matronize the business. It’s hard, some- Noble, small stores (including feminist stores) will go
times, when you know someone buys lots of feminist out of business, presses will suffer and books will dis-
books, but the only time they come in to the store is appear.” This process she calls “economic censor-
to post a flyer.” ship.” “We are contributing to our own censorship
Tollie Miller from A Reader’s Feast in Hartford, by supporting the chains,” she adds. “If we allow this
Connecticut, is going one step further in defending to happen, Barnes & Noble (and the other chains)
from the onslaught of the chains. Connecticut has the will decide what gets sold, what is in print, the size of
largest concentration of chain stores of any state, and Continued on next page
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:18 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsContinued from previous page the book industry (publishers and mainstream book-
the print runs, and ultimately what people have stores) will only court lesbian and feminist communi-
access to. The question is not who gets a piece of the ties as long as it is in vogue and profitable.
pie; the pie itself will be drastically changed.” An editor from Penguin, USA, spoke at the
Now time for a parable. Twenty-five years ago, I Publisher’s Triangle meeting at the American
first went into the Off Key, Sacramento’s only Bookseller’s Association convention this year. At one
women’s bar, which was huge, grungy, and owned by point, he said, “Let’s face it folks, we’re in this busi-
a man, but ours to do with what we wanted. It had ness to make money.” That was his bottom line. This
been there for as long as anyone could remember and statement reflects the fundamental philosophical dif-
hadn’t changed much. The neutral cultural borderlands ference between the Off Key and the Hut, between
between the traditional gay women’s world and the feminist bookstores and chain stores. Feminist stores
emerging lesbian/feminist one, populated with diesel are not in the business to make money, but we need
dykes, hippie lesbians, politicos, butches, femmes, and to make money to stay in business. Those of us who
an occasional queen, the Off Key was home to all of operate feminist bookstores are very smart women; if
us. We had performances; marriages performed by the making money were our priority, we would all have
old preacher woman, Mama Lou; pool tournaments;
birthday parties; and protest meetings. to educate, to end sexism, racism, homophobia, clas-
Then four years later, some men from San sism, ageism, and all the other inequities that threat-
Francisco opened a glitzy new bar about a mile away. en our society and survival, and to create a safe place
The new bar had everything we thought we could for our sisters and brothers. We are in the business to
want: a rotating glitter ball over the dance floor, a change the world. That will never be profitable or in
hard liquor license, a restaurant, a live DJ, and fancy vogue. Feminist bookstores are in it for the long haul
everything. Most of us shifted loyalties and became and proud to be part of a larger movement for social
regulars at the Hut. The Off Key did not survive, but change.
we hardly noticed. Only a few weeks after the Off
Key closed, the owners of the Hut put a sign on the Author’s note: For a complete list of names and
front door, “Men are welcome. Women will be toler- addresses of feminist bookstores throughout the
ated with three forms of ID.” The harassment escalat- United States and Canada, send $1.00 and a SASE
ed with aggressive male bouncers, mandatory drink to Feminist Bookstore News, P.O. Box 882554, San
policies, and verbal abuse. We clearly were not want- Francisco, CA 94188.
ed but had no place to go. Sacramento, by the way,
hasn’t had a successful women’s bar since. Theresa Corrigan owns and operates Lioness Books,
This experience taught me a valuable lesson about teaches Women’s Studies at California State
loyalty, not necessarily to a particular person or place, University, Sacramento, and writes. She is the co-
but to an alternative that I, as part of a community, editor of a two volume anthology about women’s
had created. The Hut courted women only as long as relationships with other animals, published by Cleis
we were needed to establish the business. I know that Press.
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:18 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsGAY MEN’S FICTION AUTHOR
LESBIAN FICTION AUTHOR
GAY MEN’S STUDIES AUTHOR
LESBIAN STUDIES AUTHOR
LESBIAN POETRY AUTHOR
GAY MEN’S POETRY AUTHOR
LESBIAN MYSTERY AUTHOR
REEE
GAY MEN’S MYSTERY AUTHOR
LESBIAN BIOGRAPHY/AUTOBIOGRAPHY AUTHOR
GAY MEN’S BIOGRAPHY/AUTOBIOGRAPHY AUTHOR
LESBIAN & GAY ANTHOLOGIES EDITOR
LESBIAN & GAY HUMOR AUTHOR
LESBIAN & GAY SF/FANTASY AUTHOR
LESBIAN & GAY DRAMA AUTHOR
CHILDREN’S/YA BOOKS AUTHOR
G/L SMALL PRESS BOOK AUTHOR
A
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:18 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThis content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:18 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms