Feminist
Bookstore
News Bilvlzln
November 1993 Volume 16 Number 4
Femina SeRi0 i gmr |e S13
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:14 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsInformation, ideas and articles: November 29
Ad reservations due: December 8
Ad copy due: December 13
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:14 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsTEETE Feminist Bookstore News
NOTES ™e' COMPUTER TABLE
o 000 0 Oo O O O O
What?! Another FBN so soon! Yes! We've done raves” (one- or two-paragraph reviews) about your
three regular issues and the sidelines supplement in favorite women-on-the-move titles, guidebooks,
five months (not bad for a bi-monthly)! We’re out- adventures, historical or contemporary.... We'd be
rageously proud of ourselves and thrilled to be up- thrilled to hear about your favorite titles — or
to-date at last. And we're looking forward to work- about any other ideas you have for articles for the
ing on the projects that have been waiting on the issue.
sidelines while we focused on getting the issues With this issue we also, regretfully, say goodbye
out: updating the $1 list, doing promotion to librari- to FBN’s advertising coordinator, Sandy Sibilski,
ans and academicians (give us a call if you have who has recently accepted another job offer. We
mailing lists to recommend), moving along on will miss her skills and enthusiasm.
some Feminist Bookstores Network projects, doing Take very good care during the holiday madness!
some long-waiting office projects — updating soft- Yours in spreading the words,
ware, fine-tuning our (computer) network — and,
of course, settling into our new digs.
Our new street address is 2358 Market St.
(94114) but we prefer that anything you send by FBN
U.S. mail be addressed to our post office box. Our
letter-carrier would be particularly grateful since Deadlines
she has to schlep everything that won’t fit into our
tiny mailbox up two flights of steps.
This is our annual University Press issue. Rich Women & Travel Books
with a collection of “University Press Gems” we
haven't reviewed before, a list of 40+ lesbian titles January-February 1994
from university presses (over four times the num- November 22 (or call!)
ber in print the last time we did a university press
lesbian list), and a wonderful collection of new and
forthcoming university press titles. Our thanks to Spring Announcements
a pl il t c hof e d t h ine p aneo dp l he e la pt e d t h ae n nu on ti av te er s ti it ty le sp r wes hs ie ls e w wh e o were March-April 1994
without a university press columnist. Our exciting January 21
news in that department is that Mev Miller, recent-
ly of Inland and Spinsters, is our new university
press column coordinator. Thanks, Mev, and wel- ABA '94 Issue
come! May-June 1994
Women and Travel (Books) is the theme for our March 18
January issue. We're especially looking for “short
Volume 16 Number 4
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:14 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
THE AMERICAN IN THE COMPANY
WAY OF BIRTH OF MY SISTERS
The bestsell iJ ne gs s i ac ua t h M orit f oo frd B Sela lfc k E sW teo em men and
The American Way of Death Julia A. Boyd
journeys into the birth The first book by a black
afterw in ord du f s ot wrr y r i. tt h tI een n c Pl u leud smpes ee c ia a el dln yitew ion. wpths oye m c h ee nomt ’soh t ei lro ivanp eai sls . t i stsou e sa d odfr e sbslack
“Mitford dissects the “This book radiates the
medical w e is tt ha b hli esh r m te rn at d. e.. mark —vo i c Te es r ro if e Mm .y W si is lt lie ar ms. s” , President,
precision and — aScuidsa n w iFta.”ludi TDeUrTrTieO N Williams Agency
(0-452-27068-5) $12.00 PLUME (0-525-93708-0) $18.00
VAn I rer ojbli
SaNay
EVE<RY HOMANS BUDDE a oTo) b arsh
TO PLEASURE ARD BEYOND
E XO TR RD AIN OA RR DIY N AW RO YM SE EN X, THIRTY-SIX VIEWS
Dr. Sand raan d R .S uSec a nBtrloinwgder O OF n M FiO nU diN nT g F MU yJ sI elf
dA i s c c og o nr v “ no Teu er h cn i i tn sd i g ob nmr o e a f ia n t k on dsi n e -e w bx sg eou xd ag u ul y u n a- li p si id v p tle ee yi rar s is t tue io sre. gi C tFn h rra it eo ph mJ py Fa i p nl oBa gN an u t. d i pn dD egh ra i sv s oWitd n s o afo lr nu l dn jo—e ur a ra nls e y t .o
new .p ”—ro v Loc oa nt niv iee , B e ax rc bi at ci hn ,g , P han .Dd . “rBeardil l iaasn tA... a sY e eanr jo iyna b Pler o avence.”
A Selection of the Book-of- — Louise DeSalvo,
the-Mont h (P 0 a -C p 5l e 2u r 5b b - 9a 3ca k 6n 4 d 0 B - o 8Q o )u k a $ l i 2t C 0y l . u 0Db 0UTTON O F Su BUN oSINESS aA t PDu h aU t pe ThS - eTMeo rlr Obe o aNc n cto t kif ho n B V C oio l or uf kg b i nt Ch aia lne u d b W B Qoooo ukl af- lio tf y-
WITH SUSAN K GOLANT (0-525-93707-2) $20.00
isisa
EMPATHY
ot (A $ro 2t o Vb hr io ad so naek , dr s l t i c nwo a gr li le ;t s h 1 $ - 1n 8M 5o 9 w a 0 s m-, t 2 e i 5r no 3Cr i- ma 6r 7 ud 4 m6 ) sex u ta hl e i d aa ueA n tn dn ht oi t rti y n r S , asa o ni r fg s sa h e fh l ot Af f r - fS u mr tc l e e h an r tu n e i l owom Dnv a e ea l l ,ln ob r yo esf . w fmP A oa i art t n r h ’e sH wv Se o owi u l mm us oa t er, n i n lo d nP .Kh war.. o D y r. G k o g inl ua gin d t e in a
“With Empathy, the lesbian
s n -4o 5v 2e -l 7c 0o 4m 9— -e 9s F a o y $f 0W a .0g e 0e ld. ” PonLUME aTG uaa tum hg oe h rs t M oY foo ut Ph .” ae tr sN e tv oe r
SQ PeDngUuinT TUSAO NPLU M E© Pengun USA (0 2 ) 1 h Power
PLUME
(0-452-27080-4) $11.00
November 1993 nN Volume 16 Number 4
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:14 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsCONTENTS
FBN
Editor & Publisher
Carol Seajay UNIVERSITY PRESSES
News From the Universities ..….....….….. 37
Editorial Assistant University Press GEMS... seseante 39
Dawn Lundy Martin Lesbian Books From University Presses 43
University Presses 47
Advertising
Sandy Sibilski
Columnists ARTICLES
Art Books Tee Corinne 6th International Feminist Book Fair... 19
Canadian Books Jana Williams Publishing Triangle Meeting Report... 21
Dorothy Seaton DOisupattcWhesr Fitroem T1h9e 9 R3o.a.d.. .. 2e. 9 25
Gay Men’s Literature Richard Labonte
Mainstream Publishers Sandi Torkildson Bookstores NEWS: sse: 15
Mysteries Nan Cinnater NEWS/ShOH SONGS sessen ase 7
Science Fiction Susanna Sturgis Press Gang Printers Close • Toni Morrison Wins Nobel
Pr o Po af tr e a Kd ei ln sog P Ur pi dz ae t ee • C B LC it t lO ep e Sn iss t eC rsa t a Tlo rg ia l t o P o N sto pn o- nm ede m eb e Wrs o me e nN ’L sGBM
Language Published • NCIBA • Childcare Survey •
Cover Art Obituary: Ros de Lanerolle
ABAY Women’s Music: What’s NeW -aa 89
Feminist Bookstore News Time to Take Out The Patriarchy: Nett Hart...………….….….….….……. 69
2358 Market St.
PO Box 882554 DEPARTMENTS
San Francisco CA 94188 Advertising Index... 119
415-626-1556 FAX: 415-626-8970 Ånnouncements ee 72
Canadian Content... 33
Printed in USA
FEMINIST BOOKSTORE NEWS is the communications Classified Ads ........ eee 120
v re eh aci hcl ee s f 5o 0r 0 t fh ee m ii nn if so t r m ana dl n fe et mw io nr isk t - io nf c l if ne em d i n bi ost o k sb to oo rk es st o ir ne s . t hF eBN SUbscription IMfOmMalioh ...... 78
EU n. gS la. n d ,a n Eud r o pC e, a n Aua sd tra a li aa , s N eww e Zl el a la na ds , Inf de iam ai nn d i s Jt a p anb .ooksellers in TThVeyI S W, e nst Tahnatt-As- W nay . ..S... .. ..S.. 1 71
Librarians, women's studies teachers, book reviewers, pub-
lishers and feminist bibliophiles comprise the remainder of Writing Wanted... M c i i 73
the subscribers.
L ree ct et ie vr es d, a tr ht ei c l te es n, t hn e w ofs i tt he em s m oan nd th a n pn reo cu en dc ie nm g e n pt us b l is ch ao tu iold n . be THE BOOKS
Signed articles and letters are the responsibility of the AFU BOOKS.. assii irs B 79
authors.
Gay Men's Literature... 81
FEMINIST BOOKSTORE NEWS (ISSN: 0741-6555) is pub- Humor Books ....... eee 77
lished bi-monthly in January, March, May, July, September, MYSteries a 85
aMnda rNkoveetm b eSr t .b,y FSEaMnIN ISFTr aBnOOcKiSsTcOoR,E CNEAW S 9 a4t 1 213458. Second-Class
Postage paid at San Francisco, CA. POSTMASTER: Our Own Presses... trann 95
Please send address changes to FEMINIST BOOKSTORE Publishers’ ROW -aiei 113
NEWS, PO Box 882554, San Francisco, CA 94188-2554.
S CU anB aS dC iR anIP T pI oO sN taS g: e ;$ 6 $5 1/ 9y /r y/ r6 fi oss ru e os v, e r$ s1 e2 a0 s/ 2 p o y ste aa gr es .. Plus $9/yr S TC hIS eN G SES m F aI lC l O P s res es sam sei s .a .a . n a 1k 0 783
3 November 1993
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:14 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Cleis Press this Fall...
Hothead Paisan
HOMICIDAL LESBIAN TERRORIST
Diane DiMassa
Meet Hothead Paisan—that over-caffeinated, media-crazed
psychotic lesbian... Hothead Paisan is the hottest new comic
book sensation to hit the world of zines, pulling in fans like
“metal shavings before a magnet.”
A Author tour
A Cover quotes: Alison Bechdel, Deneuve Magazine, Tina
Weymouth...
A The Hothead Paisan 'zine has sold over 25,000 copies!
Lesbian Humor/Comix/Popular Culture
November A 180 pages A ISBN: 0-939416-73-5 $12.95 paper
Rubyfruit Mountain
A STONEWALL RIOTS COLLECTION
Andrea Natalie
Don't ask! Don’t tell! From lesbians in the military to
Sigourney’s Alien on TV, Rubyfruit Mountain pokes fun at
lesbian and gay life and culture in the 90s.
A Cover quotes: Kate Clinton, Alison Bechdel, Kris Kovick...
A By the author of The Night Audrey’s Vibrator Spoke (Cleis
Press, 8.95), a Lambda Book Award finalist.
Lesbian Humor/Comix/Popular Culture
November A 104 pages A ISBN: 0-939416-74-3 $9.95 paper
November 1993 4 Volume 16 Number 4
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:14 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Purple Moon We are ever so busy! Come and help. There are
810 Caroline St. five barns and 1 house to be renovated. To raise the
Fredericksburg, VA 22401 funds, we are leasing one acre land sites on a life-
Dear FBN, time basis for $5,000. Eight acres have been leased
Well, The Purple Moon is up and running since and 12 are left.
August 14th. So far, so good. Thanks to all Sisters who have helped us make it
My first month I had a little over $8,000 in sales. this far!!! This is a poor region. We have networked
It’s been fun, crazy and hectic all at the same across class lines and have done what we can. Can
time since returning from ABA and getting the store you help? Sister Spirit is a 501(c)(3) organization.
going. I've gotten a lot of free press — five articles in In Sweet Sister Spirit,
various local publications in the last three weeks. Brenda Henson
I hope all is going well with everyone at FBN. I ZRI
was so glad to get the August issue; I stayed up
almost all night reading it cover to cover!
If you're still using my home address, will you Kay Johnson & Mev Miller
please change my address in your system to the PO Box 300151
Purple Moon address above? Thanks. Minneapolis, MN 55403
In Sisterhood, Dear FBN Readers,
Suzy Stone We are in the early planning stages of a project
ZRI that may be of interest to you. We would like to
assemble an annotated Feminist Books-in-Print —
an ambitious project to be sure. Several experi-
Sister Spirit Incorporated ences/observations have led us to believe that such
1806 Curcor Drive a tool would be useful.
Gulfport, MS 39507 Our goals are simple. It should be inexpensive,
Dear Sisters, easy to use, available to general readers as well as
We did it! Sister Spirit Incorporated has just to stores and libraries, and include as much useful
purchased 120 acres of land in Mississippi. Right and specific information as possible. Rather than
outside Hattiesburg — 77 miles from the Gulf publish it in one large volume, we would compile
Coast. A defunct pig and grape farm! several smaller volumes prepared according to sub-
From Lesbian vision, we will turn the land into ject category (e.g., lesbian fiction, violence against
a feminist educational and cultural retreat center women, spirituality, feminist theory, and so-on).
focusing upon the concerns of Southern The volume would list all that is currently available
Lesbians/Womyn. Plus, we will rent the center to in print and include as much specific information as
like-minded organizations. And the Lesbians, who possible through a coding system. We envision it to
will be living on the land and care-giving the land provide readers with a complete list of titles avail-
and projects, will be autonomous. able in the subjects that interest them, a handy ref-
November 1993
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:14 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
erence for bookstores and libraries for stocking and agement and bookselling, wholesale and distribu-
reference purposes, and another opportunity for tion, and in publishing and marketing.
publishers to have their books visible to the public.
We do not plan to do direct sales but to rather pro- P.P.S. A Note to Publishers:
vide networking and information so that readers, “We Want You to Know” is a feminist women’s
retailers, and publishers can all benefit from the music and arts program (by, for, and about women)
availability of women’s words. on KFAI 90.3 — a 125 watt community radio station
ZRI s Werv ai nn tg M Yi on une a p to oli s K an nd o w St ”. P sa hul o, w M N a. i rT sh e M “W one days,
Wednesdays, and Fridays from 9-11 am and
We see it as something handy for readers look- Tuesdays and Thursdays from 8-10 pm. Two mem-
ing for titles in specific areas. Working in book- bers of the “WWYTK” collective have decided to do
stores, we have encountered many situations where on-air book reviews and commentary on a regular
readers have walked into a store requesting books basis. Please send review copies and promotional
in, for example, lesbian fiction, or mysteries, materials to ATTN: Mev Miller and Jo Den Boer,
romance, or whatever. What is available to them is “We Want You To Know”, PO Box 300151,
only what is in the store or in mail order catalogues Minneapolis, MN 55403.
at that given time. But book retailers do not carry ZRI
every title in print. With this tool, avid readers will
be able to know about and hopefully request or
seek out additional titles as well. Those doing Clothespin Fever Press
research projects will be able to know about titles 655 Fourth Ave. Suite 34
that may not be in their local or university libraries. San Diego CA 92101
Similarly, bookstores and libraries can use it to
assist their clientele in finding books that may not Dear Folks,
be immediately available on their shelves. In response to “Can We Talk? You Bet!” [FBN
This may, at first, seem duplicative to Bowker’s 16#3] I have several thoughts. (I am basically a one
Books-in-Print. However, it will be smaller because woman operation. Carolyn Weathers has been con-
it will only list feminist books. It will be, perhaps, centrating on her writing).
more complete because we hope to include titles I have responded favorably to the discount
from small presses that may not be listed in BIP. It which you have asked for if paid within 30 days.
will include more specific and annotated informa- Although I must say that I don’t know how the dis-
tion than is included in BIP. tributors will react to this. As I have said publicly in
We'd like to know your opinions about this pro- the past, the distributors are paying me on the aver-
ject, specifically, what should be included in order age 150 days from their invoice date. I don’t know
for it to be a useful tool in feminist bookstores. if this is typical or simply reserved for me. But I
Also, would you sell it to your customers? What must say that it has curbed my plans to advertise in
would be a reasonable and salable price range their catalogs. A book sold is not a book sold until
(depending on size, of course)? Would something the money is in the hand. On the other hand, I have
the size of Hot Wire be a usable format? had bookbuyers say that they do not want to cut a
Thanks for your input! check for a publisher when they can cut one check
Sincerely, for several publishers through Womansource
Kay Johnson & Mev Miller orcdehringo, oetcs. eI do n’ft hravoe am vas.t ar r`ay of books to
P.S. Kay is an artist and archivist who has extensive I would like to help booksellers sell my books. If
experience in business and computers. I can do bookmarks, t-shirts or other promo items, I
Mev is a writer and activist who has extensive will. If I can redesign Lesbianline so the bookstore’s
experience in the book industry through store man- Continued on Page 68
November 1993
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:14 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsPress Gang Printers Toni Morrison Wins
Close Up Shop Noble Prize for Literature
It is with deep regret — but with pride — that American novelist and essayist Toni Morrison,
Press Gang Printers in Vancouver close their doors. who won the 1988 Pulitzer Prize for her novel
“We're closing but we're remembering to think Beloved, has been awarded the 1993 Nobel Prize in
of Press Gang as a success rather than a failure. We literature. She is the eighth woman to win the prize,
provided our community with quality printing for which has been awarded since 1901. Morrison is the
23 years and there’s a lot to be said for that,” Press author of six novels, The Bluest Eye, Sula, Song of
Gang's Sheila Gilhooly told FBN during the Press’ Solomon, Tar Baby, Beloved, and Jazz, two books of
last weeks. essays, Playing in the Dark: Whiteness and the Literary
“We did a lot of printing for a lot of people and Imagination and Racing Justice, En-gendering Power:
organizations including things that wouldn't have Essays on Anita Hill, Clarence Thomas, and one play
seen print otherwise over those years. Being a polit- entitled Dreaming Emmett. Morrison is also antholo-
ical press isn't easy — but I can say with pride that gized widely. Of her own work she says that it
we never made a buck we were ashamed of. We requires her “to think about how free I can be as an
trained a lot of women in the printing trades and African American woman writer in [her] gender-
taught a lot of women how to buy print and how to ized, sexualized, wholly racialized world.” At 62
design their work effectively. These aren’t skills MoUrrisonn is iProvfesseor orf Hsumianittiesy at P.ri nce tonO
that are easy for women to come by. We did a lot of
good work over the years and we’re proud of it.”
The economy — as affected by both the pro- CBC Opens
tracted recession and by the Free Trade Act — had
affected Press Gang’s ability to stay in business: ABA Exhibit/Catalog
“It’s not so much that people do less printing in a to Non-Members
recession — that part we could deal with.” Sheila
said. “It’s that everyone’s cash flow is so much The Children’s Book Council, at the behest of
worse and so they pay later. Our suppliers are the ABA, has opened the 1994 Children’s Books
stressed, too. So, to protect themselves, they put Mean Business exhibit and catalog to non-CBC
everyone on COD sooner. So we have to pre-pay members. The ABA donates booth space for the
for paper at a time when we got paid later... exhibit each year and though only CBC members
Obviously, that doesn’t work too well. had been allowed to display books, the exhibit
“We've also been facing increased competition appeared to convention goers to be representative
from bigger shops. Thanks to “free trade” the big of all children’s books published. Independent pub-
print shops are now competing for jobs that used to lishers whose books have been excluded met at
be ours. Jobs that they used to turn their noses up ABA in May and formally asked ABA to clarify the
at. But their jobs have gone to the States so what are situation and the ABA ’s intention in donating
Continued on page 10 space.
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:14 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
The purpose of the exhibit is to promote recent 1994 will once again be on outreach to bookstores,
backlist children’s titles. Approximately 400 titles libraries and universities. Then the committee will
will be included in the exhibit and will be grouped shift its priority to bringing the event to the atten-
into nine categories: books for infants and toddlers; tion of the general public. o
picture books; Bible stories, folktales, legends and
8m -1y 2t ;h s f; i cp to ioe ntr y f o rr h y ym oue ns g a n add u ls to sn ; g is n; f of ric mti ao tn io n f ao l r b or oe kad sers Northern California
f ao nr d t h oe l du en rde ,r meig ah tt hs; e minf ao tr im csa t io bn o ob koo sk . s Pf uor b le ii sg hh et rs are Independent Booksellers
allowed to suggest up to seven titles per category. Association
To be eligible, books must have been published in
the U.S. in 1992 or 1993 (the mathematics section A well-thought, well-prepared motion to
has more lenient requirements). Paperback reprints change NCBA’s name to Northern California
are considered to be published the year that the Independent Booksellers Association was brought
paperback edition is released. CBC members pay forward by NCBA ’s board at the annual member-
$55 per title, non-members will pay $70 per title ship meeting in September. The meeting was held
with the difference going toward CBC’s costs for during NCBA’s annual trade show where members
administering the exhibit. voiced strong support for the idea. Although the
Deadline for submissions is Monday, vote was 26-0 in favor of the motion, a quorum of
November 29. members was not present and a mail vote of the
Publishers who wish to have their books con- entire membership was required.
sidered for the exhibit can obtain an application The response to the mail vote was unprecedent-
form from David Riederman, Children’s Book ed. The motion to change the name to include the
Council, 568 Broadway Suite 404, NY NY 10012. word “independent” passed by a vote of 153 to 7.
212-966-1990, fax 212-966-2073. Publishers will be Board president Hut Landon (Landon Books,
notified in January as to which of their submissions Mill Valley) was gratified by the size of the vote
will be included in the exhibit and catalog. and the clear message sent by the membership. “I
It is anticipated that the Children’s Books Mean think that the nurturing and support of indepen-
Business exhibit will also be a feature of the dent bookselling is important, not only to our mem-
American Library Association’s June conference at bers but to society as a whole,” Landon said. “With
no additional cost to participating publishers. o this name change, our association is taking the first
step in educating the book-buying public about the
value and importance of independent booksellers
National Lesbian and in their communities.”
Gay Book Month Update NCIBA is already working to provide promo-
tional materials that highlight some of the advan-
tages offered by its member stores, and indepen-
At ABA this year, booksellers asked NLGBM dent booksellers as a whole. “We're booklovers
sponsors to provide them with a list of bookstores, dedicated to the art of bookselling,” Landon noted,
libraries, and others in their area who were plan- “and we plan to offer our members marketing and
ning NLGBM events so that events and publicity educational tools that underscore that message.”
could be coordinated. If you would like a list of oth-
ers in your area who have requested media kits Editor's note: In our enthusiasm for reporting
and/or who expect to participate in NLGBM, write the enthusiasm evidenced at the membership meet-
to NLGBM publicist Michele Karlsberg at 585 N. ing for both the name change and for increased
Railroad Ave., Staten Island NY 10304. attention to supporting independent bookselling,
NLGBM organizers will create and provide a we inadvertently headlined our article in the last
poster for the 1994 event. The organizing focus for issue (which came out after the NCBA’s annual
November 1993
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:14 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsmeeting but before the ballots for the mail vote Furthermore, two of Little Sisters witnesses
were sent out) “NCBA Changes Name to N.C. have died since the case was postponed in 1992,
INDEPENDENT B.A.” It should have read “NCBA one of AIDS and one of cancer. “The government
Chcangaingu Nasme e to.d...” .W e r eg—ret anyC coSnfus ion tOhis has presented no compelling reasons for adjourning
the trial,” claimed Wilkinson. “We are very angry
that, instead of acting in a responsible manner and
The Crown Postpones working with us to bring this important issue
Little Sisters Trial before the courts, they're stalling and dragging
their feet. The government is using its considerable
Yet Again resources to grind the poorly funded plaintiffs into
submission.”
VANCOUVER On September 28th, for the second Both the BCCLA and Little Sisters have sunk a
time in as many years, the BC Supreme Court huge amount of resources into this trial, and its
granted an eleventh-hour government motion to adjournment deals a heavy blow to our case.
adjourn the Little Sisters/British Columbia Civil “We've arranged for expert witnesses from
Liberties Association challenge to Canada Customs’ across North America and will have to forfeit some
censorship powers. The trial had been set for 20
trial days, beginning October 4th.
Little Sisters manager Janine Fuller is equally POETS & <
angered by the decision. “This should not have WRITERS
happened. The government shouldn’t have brought
forward the motion, and the court should not have
agreed to it. I just don’t see how the court can let MAGAZINE |
the government get away with this. ...the magazine for
“The government has all the resources, all the Serious Writers \
money, all the lawyers, and we're out there collect-
ing donations in tin cans. With the help of dozens Poets & Writers Magazine \
of supporters and volunteers, we've put together a readers are literary enthusiasts—
strong case, but we can’t seem to get it before the book buyers, writers, editors, reviewers, teachers, and
courts. What are we supposed to do? The justice journalists—who rely on us for NEWS about writing.
system has failed us, not for the first time, but for DEADLINES for grants and awards, provocative
the third time.” ESSAYS, and HOW-TO articles on getting published.
“We're bitterly disappointed at this decision,”
said BCCLA President Andrew Wilkinson. “This is Make Poets & Writers Magazine
a im f pr oe re td ao nm ce o wf h ie cx hp r wes es 'vio en b c ea es ne to rf y ie nn go r tm o o u gs e t p u bb el fi oc re one of your top-selling titles!
the courts since 1990. The government has used + 60% female audience
every tactic at its disposal to prevent having to + A “must-have” magazine for all serious writers
defend Canada Customs’ censorship powers before + Interviews with high-profile writers
a court of law. They're making the bringing of this + 88 pages, heavy white stock
challenge as long and costly and painful as possi- + Bi-monthly, $3.95 cover
ble. I think their tactics are disgraceful.”
In his judgment, Mr. Justice Harvey cited evi- “Poets & Writers Magazine moves very well. We
dence that the trial will probably take more than sell 95% of our copies, and the service can’t be beat.”
the 20 days scheduled for it, the large amount of —Judith’s Room, NYC
evidence the trial judge will have to consider, and
the desirability of not having the trial interrupted SA mva ai ll la b Cle h a nth gr eo s,u g Ah r mIn ag dr ila lm o,, UD be iB qo ue ir ty, , D e Inse lar nt d ,M o anon d, FD inon e PO rls inon t.,
by being split into two separate sessions.
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:14 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
of their expenses, to say nothing of the enormous Press Gang ...
c no os tt es s w Fue' lv lee r . in “c Wur hr ae td isin p p arr te ip ca ur li an rg ly t fh re u sc ta rs ae t i nf gor i st r i ta hl, a” t Continued from page 10
the court does not appear to be sensitive to the diffi- they going to do? It’s better to do small jobs and not
culty small public interest litigants have in taking make as much money than it is to be unemployed.
the government to court. To have such expensive They have big equipment and can do things cheap-
cases adjourned so easily places undue hardship on er than we can. Free Trade means that work goes to
small groups.” the States, so people lose their jobs, so the recession
“If the government thinks they can use the goes on and on. It's not an easy time in Canada.”
courts like this to discourage us from continuing Other factors? “We never had the money to
this case, they're sorely mistaken. upgrade at the rate we should have. We didn’t have
“If it takes collecting the money on the streets in the flexibility and the capital to respond to the tech-
nickels and dimes, then nickels and dimes it is. Our nological changes in the field — desktop publish-
resolve is even greater now than before to make the ing, photocopying, and the like. On the other hand,
government accountable for its blatantly homopho- sometimes we wonder if we'd have done better if
bic censorship practices.” we'd stayed smaller instead of expanding our
Estimates are that this postponement has cost capacity as we did — but if we had we wouldn't
Little Sisters an otherwise unnecessary $30,000. If have been able to serve our community as well, so
you have fundraising ideas or suggestions — or that’s not the answer, either.”
funds — please contact Little Sisters (1221 Thurlow Staff turnover was also a factor. “We hired three
St., Vancouver BC V6E 1X4; 604-669-1753) or the new people in January. We had a lot of staff turnover
BCCLA (518-119 West Pender St., Vancouver BC at a bad time. It wasn't because of the hard times; it
V6B 1S5. Phone: 604-687-2919. Fax: 604-687-3045). O was more that the hard times coincided with long-
term plans that these particular women had made
Canada Customs’ Detentions long ago. But it’s hard to do training when you're
Reach New Low h ina sv pin irg e a c o nh far idd e n t ci em ! e I t m ’s a k hi an rg d p toay r ho al vl. e I vt i sd ioo ne s n a’ nt d e x da octly
long-term planning when you're preoccupied with
Canada Customs has not ceased reaching for the training and trying to hold things together.”
ridiculous in its practices. During the week that the With the closing of Press Gang Printers, the last
Crown was filing for yet another extension, Canada of the women’s print shops that opened with the
Customs officials detained two Naiad titles, Return flowering of women’s liberation and the beginning
to Lesbos by Valerie Taylor, which was published in of the women-in-print movement, an era closes.
1963 and reissued in 1980, and Al! True Lovers, a Now is the time to send your regards to Press Gang
novel by Sara Aldridge that was published in 1985. and to the women doing the hard work of closing
To quote from Banned and Gagged #4: The Newletter down the press, selling the equipment, and dealing
for Canadian Importers of Lesbian & Gay Books, “This with the banks and the creditors. And, should you
particular detention is noteworthy because: Those of have money to contribute to paying off their loans
you who know these books will be staggered to to women who have loaned them money over the
learn that anyone could possibly consider them years, that would be welcome, too.
pornographic. They are sweet, sincere stories of love
between women and have very little sexual content Editors’ note: Press Gang Publishers is totally inde-
— or degradation, or violence, or children, or dogs... pendent from Press Gang Printers and their operations
And these are backlist titles which have been avail- will not be affected by the Printers’ decision to close
able in Canada for years. Does Canada Customs except that, because they rented the Powell Street build-
intend to screen the thousands of backlist lesbian ing jointly, the Publishers’ will likely be moving in the
and gay titles that cross the border annually? If so, next few months. FBN will publish the Publishers’ new
it’s going to be a bumpy ride.” O address as soon as arrangements are finalized. O
November 1993 10
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:14 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
N.
r
Á Y
x ON
Gurmat Aaa = s œ N>
Sira aa BAEAN MSat a
Taiwanese Women form the mighty torrent of history” and “a rare cul-
tural property” that must be cherished and studied.
Transcribe & Publish Transcribing the work was often depressing: the
Women’s Language women’s writings speak of the low social status of
women in China over the years and their conse-
A year or two ago, the newsmedia reported the quent sorrows and agonies.
“discovery” of nu shu, an elegant and graceful writ- The Awakening Foundation, the feminist group
ten language developed by women in Hunan as a that brought the work to Taiwan, has published a
form of private, written communication among beautiful, hardcover book that alternates pages of
women. The script is very different from traditional the nu shu with facing pages of transcription in
Chinese characters and is an art in itself. It is the only modern Chinese characters. The book includes over
known word form created and practiced by women 40,000 u shu characters. If we learn of any way to
that has been passed down from woman to woman order the book in the U.S., or price information,
for hundreds of years. Tens of thousands of exam- we'll pass it on. The Awakening Foundation, which
ples of this type of writing have been found in libret- also publishes an English language feminist
tos, folk songs, correspondences and autobiogra- newsletter, can be reached at Fl.3, No.1, Lane 1, Po-
p inh fie os r. m T ath ie o n n e aw boly ut t wra on msc er ni ’b se d l i vw esr i t ai nn dg s a nof f ue nr c e a n s ot rr eo dve of A oi r R o a 3d, 8 9Ta .i 9pe 7i, 3 0Ta ;i w a fn, a xRO C . 0 2Ph -o 3n 1e 1 0 -2- 033 31 3.9 336 .3 O
depiction of women’s lives and feelings.
When examples of the script were brought to Women in Publishing Do
Taiwan, a cluster of women in Taipei gathered to
transcribe the work and immediately recognized the Childcare Survey
significance of the work. “In their writing, the
women mostly expressed their wretched circum- The Childcare Initiative Group of Women in
stances,” said one group member. “They showed Publishing administered a survey of 100 British
how their hearts were filled with compassion for fel- publishing companies in order to find out what
low women who are bullied and who lead dreary they offer their employees in terms of maternity
lives.” Others called the work “A treasure dug out and childcare benefits. This survey resulted from a
11 November 1993
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:14 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
les
A Legal
Guide for
LESBIAN
AND GAY —BAY AREA REPORTER
COUPLES
NOLO PRESS, BERKELEY, CA 94710
meeting where women discussed the experiences of from a small concern to a notable and exciting force
trying to continue a career in publishing and simul- in international publishing. She believed that the goal
taneously raise a family. It became clear that one of of the Press should be to provide a public platform
the main difficulties faced by British women is in for women who might have no other access to the
arranging satisfactory childcare. mainstream media.
The survey reveals that there are vast differ- She published translations of novels from all
ences between maternity and childcare benefits over the world that wouldn't have otherwise been
offered by different U.K. publishing houses, an published in England, including the work of
industry that employs about 75% women. The sur- Madeleine Bourdouxhe and Marie Cardinale from
vey results will be used as a negotiating tool by France, Yuko Tsushimi from Japan, and Hualing
employees. It will also help show employers how Nieh from China. She published The Color Purple in
they can create more profitable companies by hav- Britain well before the mainstream British press
ing a happier and more committed workforce. became interested in Black women’s work and was
Women in Publishing is a voluntary organiza- particularly concerned to provide an opening for
tion which promotes the status of women in pub- voices, especially black and third-world women’s
lishing by offering opportunities for support, train- voices which might not otherwise be heard. She
ing and networking for all women who work in introduced work by Ellen Kuzwayo, Tsitsi
publishing and related industries in the U.K. For Dangarembga, Caesarina Makhoere, Merle Collins,
further information contact: Caroline Beattie or Joan Riley, Ravinder Randhawa, Pauline Melville,
Hazel Hutchison at Childcare Initiative Group, 49 the Sistern Community Theatre Collective, and
Eccles Road, Battersea London UK SW11 1LZ. O many more. Many of these women went on to win
literary prizes and achieve an international audi-
Ros de Lanerolle ence. She was passionate about controversial and
“delicate” issues and published books on child
1932-1993
abuse, incest, rape, miscarriage, anorexia — and all
aspects of women’s lives — that set a standard for
U.K. Ros de Lanerolle, best known in the British the British mainstream publishers to emulate.
publishing world as the managing director of The Ros, with Lennin Goodings of Virago and the
Women’s Press between 1981 and 1991, died in writer and publisher Margaret Busby, founded
London on September 23 of lung and brain cancers. Greater Access to Publishing — GAP — a group
Under her direction, the Women’s Press grew aimed at getting more black women into British pub-
November 1993 Volume 16 Number 4
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:14 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
lishing. She was also an originator of International Meanwhile, in 1960, Ros had married Accha de
Feminist Book Fair and the Feminist Book Fortnight Lanerolle, a Sinhalese student of architecture, and
and helped, in 1981, to establish Women in shared with him through the sixties the tremendous
Publishing, intended to help women improve their excitement of being in the thick of African and Asian
position in all aspects of the book trade, an orgaiza- protest movements.
tion which involved most of the women now senior Although the birth of their son Indra, then their
in publishing. daughter Ayesha, meant Ros juggling her duties, the
After the Women’s Press, she founded her own children recall an amazing household teeming with
firm, Open Letters which, sadly, did not survive her activity and regular outings to demonstrations.
illness. Banned by the South African government, it was
As well known as Ros was in feminist and main- only with difficulty that Ros achieved brief, restricted
stream publishing circles, few of her colleagues real- visits to her dying parents in Cape Town. During the
ized how deeply she had been involved in anti- seventies she worked for the UN Committee of
apartheid work in her native South Africa and as an Experts on South Africa, during which time her home
exile in Britain. was described as “smothered in press clippings and
Like many whites from comfortable middle-class testimonies” which she edited for reports on viola-
English-speaking homes in South AFrica, it was only tions of human rights.
at university that the young Rosalynde Ainslie began She joined the ANC when it opened its member-
to make what she later described as “the moral dis- ship to whites. Her son, Indra, was in South Africa for
coveries and choices a white South African has to BBC television when President de Klerk announced
deal with under apartheid if she is to earn the right to the unbanning of organisations and individuals in
an identity.” Through the National Union of South February of 1990 and phoned the dramatic news to
African Students she became active in student poli- Ros. In December, with Indra and Ayesha, she flew to
tics, pursued political meaning, and attended mixed South Africa to re-discover the country and friends
parties. She went to Britain during the mid-fifties to denied her by exile and to take up a research project
further her studies in English literature and became for the ANC on educational publishing. Her aim was
the London representative of Africa South, the a strong indigenous publishing programme with links
remarkable political-literary quarterly founded by to successful programmes in Zimbabwe and
Ronald Segal. Mozambique. Although later she knew that she
In 1959, responding to an appeal from Chief would not herself see the result of these initiatives,
Albert Luthuli, president-general of the ANC, she even in her last months her energy went into ensuring
and fellow South Africans Abdul Minty and Vella that the work would be carried on by others.
Pillay launched the Boycott Movement in Britain, She lived and worked as fully as possible and
which was transformed into the Anti-Apartheid took a sudden and unexpected turn only a few days
Movement, which soon had 262 branches. A col- before she died. Friends recall visiting her in what
league of the time, Abdul Minty, recalls their opti- turned out to be her final weeks they found her
mism: surely apartheid would soon be eradicated! propped up in bed, looking out on a walled garden,
As honorary secretary, Ros brought immense ener- while an amiable tortoiseshell cat came and went,
gy, dedication and diplomacy to the work. She had a discussing projects such as a book on exiles returning
kind of innocence and yet there was an edge of cyni- to South Africa, listening and advising, her passion,
cism to her sense of humour; though gentle she was warmth and effervescent humour engendering a
not afraid to disagree but always sought a consensus. marvelous excitement. “Our last conversations with
With Minty, she urged officials at the United Nations her were stimulating, humorous and warm enough
to set up a special committee on apartheid; with to enrich our memories of her forever,” wrote Mary
Robert Rensha of the ANC they began campaigning Bensen. Ronald Segal added, “There are few of
for the release of political prisoners and, in 1964, whom it can be said: The difference she made was
helped organise a conference in London to investigate immeasurable.”
the feasibility of sanctions against South Africa. Taken from The Guardian. O
November 1993
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:14 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsA Robin Miller Mystery *
The Romantic Naiad Under My Skin
Edited by Katherine V. Forrest A Robin Miller Mystery
and Barbara Grier by Jaye Maiman
BIGGER! ALL NEW! MORE MORE MORE... From the Lambda Literary Award winner for
Crazy For Loving — the third entry in her dynamic,
Nikki Baker...Molleen Zanger...Kathleen Collins... highly acclaimed, highly charged mystery series.
T. T.M H HEO E R H EE O R T OO T TFJ E I Ca SWc Tk NHi e S AA E IT LC A La DEl Yh .R .O .o SUu n O. L. F. OA V m AEa LDn L d I a N T I K M Oy ENl ,e E W Oi Flliams... a h m e o rcP r a r ib ewi i sv n o a rt o ke i fn d a ante ht d ce e hc t t ilPi h dv o e he c oo r onR e doo c s ub tri n rt ro a i un M mge ,i s al cl . a e i p nr Ae c rh et fa ah is s g e i hn r tgpe lt r yr be e s e a s tgt u wre r ad ee p e s nh t io o c f N om re --
Dorothy Tell...Nicole Conn...Robbi Sommers... een and ex-lover Helen signals the first interruption
Anita Cornwell...Rhonda Dicksion... to Robin’s refuge in peaceful Telham Village.
..MORE STORIES FROM THE AUTHORS The next event is a suspicious death...
YOU LOVE...IN THE BIGGER, ALL-NEW... Robin, dragged into an ever-widening homicide
Anita Skeen...Carol Schmidt...Catherine Ennis... investigation, finds further complication when K.T.
Diane Salvatore...Jennifer Fulton...Lori Paige... B exe cll if tl io nw g e r — r e at u wrn oms at no wh her o l ai wfe a. k eK n. sT . , i n p a Rs osi bo in na t e d r ea an md s
... THE ROMANTIC NAIAD! BIG, ALL NEW! of a love she long ago renounced.
Penny Hayes...Lee Lynch...Marion Head... Robin’s homicide investigation leads her down
Lauren Wright Douglas...Karin Kallmaker... dark trails of suspicion in this once peaceful com-
Penny Sumner...Mary J. Jones... munity. One of those trails leads to her closest
THE ROMANTIC NAIAD! friend...
ISBN 1-56280-054-X $14.95 ISBN 1-56280-049-3 $10.95
14
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:14 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
FROM THE
Compiled by Carol Seajay ed Laura Zimmerman. The reading was organized
as a benefit for Sojourner and New Words to fund
Antigone Books (Tucson) is throwing a block projects that will help keep women’s words avail-
party for their 20th Birthday Bash from 4-10 pm on able and accessible. (See also New Words’ letter to
Saturday October 30. The invitation/poster reads, friends and customers elsewhere in this column.)
“In appreciation of the wonderful customers and
friends who have supported the store since its first X
day in 1973, the women of Antigone Books invite
you to enjoy performances, readings and music Mama Bears Bookstore — inciuding three of the
by...” and the schedule includes Barbara original founders of one of the (the?) first women’s
Kingsolver, the Barbea Williams Performing bookstores in the world, A Woman’s Place
Company, Leslie Marmon Silko, Martie van der Bookstore in Oakland — celebrated Mama Bears’
Voort (singer/songwriter), The Women of 10th anniversary with a day-long party in the book-
Bloodhut Productions performing pieces from their store/ coffeehouse.
wildly popular “Our Own Bodies” and, following a
dinner break highlighted by 15%-off coupons at Thirtyfirst Street recently hosted a major event
seven neighborhood restaurants, singer/songwriter with Adrienne Rich. Baltimore is one of Adrienne’s
Jamie Anderson and a street dance with women’s home-towns and this was the first time she had
band Friendly Fire. read in Baltimore since she did a benefit for Women:
A Journal of Liberation fifteen years ago.
Earth and Sky (Grand Rapids MI) celebrated
Antigone Books wth ee lli r a nf dir s t w e y e aa rr e a gn rn oi wv ie nr gsa r ey v e ron y O mc ot no tb her !” 16. “All is
600 N. 4th Avenue • 792-3715
Visions and Dreams in Wichita is open and
Antigone is also throwing a 2-day, 20%-off sale thriving. Raye Ann Tucker and Renee Fletcher —
(everything except textbooks and special orders), a the Tucker-Fletchers — moved to Wichita from
fabulous prize for the person who can match up the Southern California and found themselves missing
most Antigone employees with their baby pictures, their local feminist bookstore. After repeated calls
and is also taking this opportunity to collect book- to Renee's mother to send books, her parents
store history, photos, and memories — first visits to offered to bankroll the opening of the bookstore —
the store, most unforgettable experience in the and community center — they needed in Wichita.
store... and more. Only a few months after opening, the store is sell-
ing four times as much as they need to pay rent.
New Words launched their year — long 20th A
anniversary year with a reading featuring Adrienne
Rich and poet and former New Words collective
member poet Kate Rushin. “It was a magnificent Old Wives Tales raised $20,000 of the $25,000
reading — high-spirited and well-attended,” report- they needed by their September 30 goal and so felt
15 November 1993
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:14 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
> Feminist presses, international voices, Writings
by women of color, and women exploring “for-
bidden” subjects.
Friendly, knowledgeable answers to an amazing
assortment of women’s questions — from “Can
you recommend a good vacation read?” to
“What books do you have on recovering from
incest?” to “Where are the women’s bars in
Montreal?”
< Children’s books that challenge gender stereo-
Dear Friends and Customers, Pty osp te es r s ,a n d b u ts th oo nw s ad niv de r mse u sc iu c l t tu hr ae ts ca en ld eb rf aa tm e i l oie us r.
We can hardly believe it ourselves, but we're lives — with flair and wit.
beginning our 20th anniversary year. For the past Here, as you know, you're not simply a con-
two decades, you've helped us build a place where sumer. Every dollar you spend at New Words
women can explore their lives and exchange infor- invests in women’s voices for the long haul. Buying
mation that can change the world. even a single book, journal, CD, or poster at New
like A tos sw he a r eap p sr oo mac eh c oo mur m et nw te sn t wie et 'rh e b ri er ct eh nd ta ly y w hee a’d rd W conor vd es r s ak te ioe nps vo iu tar l . community, our culture and our
from you. We want this conversation among feminists to con-
Some of you tell us that you visit New Words to
hf a w a oW tn n n hi a on v od d g ir sd re ol d d iI l a nns 2e ,to s gs 0 hu b - iat e cf s yi n oa ca edn u ore r aa n nsv i r c v e t -t a h ur l oeh si en e n y r la s d s s itt sJt q a h N u ta ci y ip wesen oolae ow na ng ynl u ye v . c s e t aE st , rch mM ain o s o fa ag ym a on et tnl o n ’ ia es uy ogn ao n nd f h f t. do fr a e tf e p ow l O om m lp c ot oe y i mh u ln m n o ae sae iu ser f ssd tn t s o t ’ s r ts hn . fa e t t aem o l ae tw a l Ab rl ro l lr n n e u N i d a g t su a t e i s ps wn wlt f g la hS ete e cs o ah a Wm e sm t .a twi i ot n n e r a Nr i ad n s w v e nt st twi e h os l l te ie hs, e ran t ai M p e b Wi n mn xm lu o eg p oe n ra a d n dt sS ( Con eota sdd o u o lhy e. e r m .g a d c. 6 h r b t t o e( a’e s w iy s sh ot pg . eo nc m oi s 8n r e mu l e ,n re o aM pi sb dfn .Sh m ro eug ao n C bn t u d pe oodr eS a oomv ase y sky.p oes se sr u t ! i ) W bye r 1m b l t 2 ee t r h . 2’ wb h ol a 0l e r p w te Atr o me h s, b nu k e y e g dd o 1 h y a t ut9 y oo e h dr9 p a oF r3 r e 6 no, nr n s u i ’ui t d ag gw p p na he h m pye d mv t o' , r e ! . r ) itre , so th y 1 su e 0 e S r o ax a o d m ft ip ua n nua r y r e cn N : w rt d d e No ea- wd y e i w 8 - 10
t uwe nnt dy I e ny re a r rs ! e pce rn et s sy ue rar es , fsm roal ml b o so uks pt eor re ss t oh rav ee s c aom nde chains. W Oco tr od bs e r ,N e 1w 5 % H o ou fr fs tS hp ee sc ei a l f a — ve s :for the month of
Convinced at last that women’s words actually sell, main- Schu lB mai al ne ;y 's T h C ea f Me, o rG nl io nr gi a A N fa ty erlo , r ; C yE nm thpa iat h y En, l oS ea ;r a Nh ot
stream bookstores are finally offering more books by femi- Telling Mother, Diane Salvatore; On Prejudice,
nists and lesbians. But New Words isn’t following a Daniela Gioseffi.
trend. Feminism has been our guiding principle And don’t miss Adrienne Rich and Kate Rushin
since N w ewe o Wp oen rded s wou ilr l d alo wor ays. s be the place where you reading to celebrate our twentieth year!
can find: Reprinted from New Words newsletter. O
November 1993 16
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:14 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
confident about extending their fundraising. Gifts importance of making informed choices about
accounted for a third of the funds received and two- where books get purchased. Know that your initia-
thirds of the money came in the form of loans tive in going to bat for the bookstore nurtures us
payable begining next fall. “We’re back in the realm here in a way that is crucial to our survival.” My
of possibility,” remaining collective member Sisters’ Words is celebrating her sixth anniversary
Darlene Pagano reports. OWT'’s collective structure and, this year, instead of organizing a sale and a
has been suspended temporarily but two new staff party for everyone else, Mary Ellen is taking her
members have been hired and decisions regarding first week off since opening the store. Yes!
c do al yle c st ei lv le in gm e sm eab soe nrs . h i Mp e aw ni wll h ib lee Om Wad Te isa f t le or o k it nh ge fh oo rli - a SY N AA O s
development director to design and implement a
two-year fundraising program. Sales have increased A note in the Herland Sister Resources newslet-
somewhat during this period of extensive promo- ter (Oklahoma City) indicates that it costs them $460
tion and fundraising, but are still below 1991 sales per issue for production and mailing 1300 copies of
levels. “We have more flexibility now, but we need their 10 page newsletter (8 1/2 x 11”). Most of the
to keep going or, a year from now when the loans labor is volunteered.
come due, we'll be in worse shape than we are
now,” Darlene concluded. Pokey Anderson (Inklings/Houston) recom-
mends Koen Book Distributors to booksellers who
Book-Woman (Austin) — along with many other are fed up with unannounced short discounts and
bookstores — is extending its hours. This seems to other hassles involved with ordering university
be one of the key strategies to making shopping in press books from mainstream distributors. “I love
the bookstore easier and more convenient for cus- them. There’s no trouble, no mistakes, they do same
tomers — and a necessary one in the face of the kind day shipping — and they’re nice to deal with,” she
of hours superstores are keeping. Open until 8 or 9 says. (Keon Book Distributors, PO Box 600,
or 10 is becoming the work-a-day norm. Moorestown NJ 08057. 800-257-8481.)
Organizing and hosting reading groups is
another important kind of outreach. Amazon It's Books In Print Time
(Minneapolis) organized an international fiction
study group and then found a lot of interest in a The 1993-94 Books In Print is out. If you
Lesbian Lives study group so they found a facilata- have a 92-93 edition that you'd like to pass
tor and created a new, reading group. The group along to another bookstore, give us a call or
will meet five times. Participation costs $25 and drop us a card. If you need a set, do the same
includes a 10% discount on books. and we'll match up the “haves” and the
“needs.” The usual deal is that the store that
receives the used set pays the shipping.
This is one of many ways that larger stores
Amazon (including general independent stores) can
help smaller stores in a big way for just the
BOOKSTORE price of a postcard and a few minutes boxing
and addressing the books.
Call now! FBN’s operators (and answering
A note in My Sisters’ Words newsletter machine) staff the phone 24 hours a day! Call
(Syracuse) sends “a very special thank you to the 415-626-1556, fax 415-626-8970 or send those
customers who have written letters to editors or pFosrtcaarndsc itso c FoB N , C PAO B o9x 4 818285584., SaOn
columns in local newsletters about the importance
of My Sisters’ Words in this community and the
November 1993
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:14 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Naiad Press has included their list of Canadian Booksellers Want To Know ...
and U.S. stores that stock 70% or more of their titles Patty Callaghan (Brigit Books) wants to know if
into their new catalog. The catalog — including the other feminist bookstores carry transgender books
5-page list — will be sent to a 22,000-woman mail- — and if so, what books. Does anyone want to do a
ing list in November. Naiad has printed an addi- booklist for FBN?
tional 12,000 copies of the catalog to send to women
That's it for this issue. Keep those cards and letters
who contact Naiad for information about their and newsletters coming. Everyone wants to know what's
books during the year. It’s an incredible service to happening in the other bookstores — but I can only pass
feminist stores and others that stock lesbian books. along the news I hear. Everyone wants to know how
Would that more publishers were inventing brilliant sales are so send me the news — the good, the bad, and
ways to support the bookstores that support them! even the ugly... Thanks! —CSO
AUSTRALIA: Feminist sisters Robyn and Anne personal growth, spirituality, theology, women’s
Marie Pedler, co-directors of Murphy Sisters studies, biography and feminist non-fiction.”
Bookshop in Adelaide, Australia, have opened a “The estimated increase in the volume/range
second feminist bookshop in Adelaide — this of children’s books that cover issues related to the
time by the-sea. specific buying policy of this feminist bookshop
Appropriately titled “Sisters by the Sea” the (social justice, non-traditional roles, multicultural-
bookshop is located at the beachside suburb of ism, social issues, protective behavior) is 41% since
Semaphore, which is fast becoming a haven for 1990. The trend so far in 1993 indicates a further
women with its women’s galleries, eating places increase in sales which was a key factor in our
and nearby women’s theatre company — decision to open our second feminist bookshop.
Vitalstatistix. “A 1993 Women in Australia Report by the
The opening is especially auspicious on the Australian Bureau of Statistics revealed that read-
eve of South Australia’s Centenary year of ing is the second most popular leisure pursuit for
Women’s Suffrage in 1994 which commemorates Australian women (76%) and the third most popu-
being the second place in the world to give lar pursuit for Australian men (65%). Given these
women the right to vote, and the first place in the statistics, I think we've made the right decision.”
world to give women the right to sit in Commenting further, Ann Marie said, “At a
Parliament. Adelaide will also host the Adelaide time when there is a strong backlash against fem-
Writers Festival — with special focus on women inists and feminism, it is important to provide a
writers — in March 1994 and the Third space that gives women information, resources
International Women’s Playwright Conference in and support to connect, and to collect ideas and
July 1994 — just three weeks before the 6th literature that informs their lives and carries
International Feminist Book Fair in Melbourne, them forward.”
Australia.
Commenting on the opening, Robyn said, Murphy Sisters Bookshop, 240 The Parade,
“Since 1990 the range and volume of feminist Norwood 5067, South Australia. Phone: (61) 8-
titles stocked here has increased by 38% (annual 332-7508. Fax (61) 8-331-3559.
turnover now $400,000). This covers categories Sisters by the Sea, 14 Semaphore Road,
such as fiction (including crime which has a high Semaphore 5019, South Australia. Phone (61) 8-
turnover), health, lesbian fiction and non-fiction, 341-7088. Fax (61) 8-341-7089. ©
November 1993 Volume 16 Number 4
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:14 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
By Susan Hawthorne, Chairperson,
and Jane Sloane, Director,
6th International Feminist Book Fair
MELBOURNE, AUSTRAILIA: In July 1994, thousands of
women from around the world will arrive in
Melbourne, Australia for the 6th International
Feminist Book Fair (6th IFBF) which takes place at Feminist
2th 7-e 3 1R o Jy ua ll y E 1x 9h 9ib 4.ition Buildings in Melbourne from Book Fair Inc.
It is the first time the event has been held in the 27TH -31ST JULY 1994
southern hemisphere and, appropriately, the theme Great Hall
of the book fair is Indigenous, Asian and Pacific Royal Exıbıtıon Buildings
tW o r i 1t 0in 0 g i na tn ed r n P atu ib ol nis ah l i n wg r. it T erh se a6 nt dh 1I 0F 0B F A m use ta rn als i a nthat 80 Melbourne Australia
writers will come to Melbourne in July 1994. Indigenous, Asian &
The first two confirmed acceptances are from Pacific Writing
Ellen Kuzwayo, long-time black anti-Apartheid
activist from South Africa and Flora Nwapa, Toni Morrison (USA)
founder of Tana Press in Nigeria, the first indepen- Banana Yoshimoto (Japan)
dent feminist press in Africa. Feminist presses from Jung Chang (China)
many countries have already made commitments to Suniti Namjoshi (UK /India)
attend — to name just a few: Kali for Women, Bapsi Sidhwa (Pakistan)
India; Tigress Press, Thailand; Huia Press (Maori Keri Hulme (New Zealand)
Women’s Press), New Zealand; Daphne Brasell & Ngahuia Te Awekotuka (New Zealand)
Associates, New Zealand; Frauenoffensive, Ellen Kuzwayo (South Africa)
Germany; Sister Vision (Black and Third World ° Slavenka Drakulic (Croatia)
Women of Color Press), Canada. A host of others in ° Jeanette Winterson (UK)
Australia and world wide have expressed interest. ° Amy Tan (USA)
Some of the writers who have been invited to ° Eva Johnson (Australia)
speak at the Book Fair include: ° Sally Morgan (Australia)
November 1993
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:14 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
° Li Ang (Taiwan) of feminist writing and publishing — a sharing of
° Ninotchka Rosca (USA / Philippines) information, ideas, experiences and visions that will
° Eugenia Fakinou (Greece) enrich and empower all who attend. It’s destined to
° Thea Astley (Australia) be the world’s most important literary and cultural
° Nicole Brossard (France) events of 1994 — don’t miss it!
* Jeanette Turner Hospital (Australia) If you would like to be placed on the mailing
° Duong Thu Huong (Vietnam) list for the Book Fair, write to:
The 6th IFBF
Writers who have already confirmed their par- GPO Box 2681X
ticipation in the 6th IFBF include Suniti Namjoshi Melbourne VIC 3001
(UK/India), Maud Sulter (UK), Ngahuia Te Australia
Awekotuku (NZ), Ninotchka Rosca (Philippines), Telephone.: 011 61 3 663 3355
Keri Hulme (NZ), Beryl Fletcher (NZ) and over 50 Facsimile: 011 61 3 663 7565
confirmed Australian writers to date including Eva
Johnson, Dale Spender, Dorothy Hewitt, Marion
Halligan, Mabel Edmond, Marion Campbell, Rose Booking Exhibit Space
Zwi, Kerry Greenwood, Sheila Jeffreys and Andrea This news just in on 6th IFBF booth rental. — CS
Goldsmith. Stand/booth bookings (be they individual or
collective) are now available. Bookings are available
on a first come first serve basis, so make reserva-
tions as soon as possible. If you haven't received
information, contact the Book Fair at the address
above, or their U.S. agent for exhibitors informa-
tion. Stand prices are based on a sliding scale deter-
mined by both size of booth and position.
Stand sizes include 2 x 3 meters, 3 x3, 4X 4,2 x 5,2
x4, and 3 x6, as well as 22.5 and 13.5 sq. meter stands.
Prices range from US$100 per square meter to
Women will be travelling from all parts of the US$161 per square meter. (Prices based on current
world to participate in the 6th IFBF — which cele- exchange rates.)
brates its 10th anniversary in 1994. There will be The stand prices include a shell scheme stand
two trade days followed by three public days that which includes wall panels made from white
will embrace readings, forums, panel discussions, melamine, carpet, fascia with name, basic lighting
launches, debates, discussions and special events. (2 spotlights per 9 sq. meters). Two furniture pack-
At the same time there will be many activities hap- ages are also available. Package A includes 1 small
pening around Melbourne at night that focus on table, 2 chairs, and one 4-shelf 120 wall mounted
feminist writers and writing — film events, a gondola (US$50). Package B includes 1 medium
Hildegarde of Bingen festival, theatre troupes per- table, 3 chairs, 1 open counter with shelf, and two 4-
forming from around the globe, including shelf 150 wall mounted gondolas (US$85).
Australia’s Women’s Circus, and other events that The above prices include hire, hire tax, damage
commemorate great women writers. waiver and cartage. The exhibition manual will be sent
As a feminist event, the writing included in the to exhibitors after they have contacted for the event.
book fair will reflect themes that inform, enrich and The manual will include a furniture brochure and price
empower women’s lives. This is writing that gives list from which additional equipment can be hired.
us strength as women rather than diminishes us in U.S. and Canadian publishers should contact Mev
terms of our potential or for who we are. With an Miller, the U.S. and Canadian agent for the 6th IFBF
anticipated attendance of up to 20,000 people, the for a detailed price list or to reserve space. Phone: 612-
6th IFBF will be a joyous and important celebration 872-8307; fax 612-699-0970 or 612-221-0124. o
November 1993 20 Volume 16 Number 4
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:14 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
NLGBM
Feminist Books
at the Root of
Lesbian/Gay B;
Success
By Theresa Corrigan Everyone seems so excited that the mainstream
Lioness Books/Sacramento book industry is responding to Gay/Lesbian Book
Month. We seem to feel we have “arrived” when
I was asked to speak on a panel for the Publishing Crown does a window display or when Barnes &
Triangle at the ABA Convention this year. The question Noble organizes a gay reading. But I'd like to point
we were asked to address was what we have done for out that the feminist, gay and lesbian bookstores
National Lesbian and Gay Book Month and did we con- promote lesbian and gay titles all year around.
sider the Triangle promotion successful. As you will see,
I chose not to address the question but rather an issue I .
saw as more important. The following is an edited ver- Feminist bookstores are almost
SOY Conmeen never mentioned at meetings like
Feminist bookstores throughout the United this unless we mention
States and Canada are largely responsible for the
development of the gay and lesbian market, partic- ourselves.
ularly the lesbian market, but we are almost never
mentioned at meetings such as this unless we men- We offer gay and lesbian authors and publishers
tion ourselves. Mainstream stores are praised for many things the large stores, chains and superstores
expanding into the lesbian/gay market, and gay cannot or will not do. We stock backlist of nearly all
stores credit themselves with carrying the torch in lesbian and gay titles and we reorder to keep books
gay/lesbian book promotion, but feminist stores, available to our customers. Most of the mainstream
which have been selling lesbian (and in many cases stores may carry a few titles, but only if they can get
gay men’s) books for 20-25 years, are ignored year the discounts they demand, which most small press-
after year. . es cannot afford to give. They primarily stock books
Volume 16 Number 4 21 November 1993
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:14 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
published in the mainstream, so most of our authors said, echoing what others today have said, we're in
will never be seen in the chains. the business to make money, assuming his “we”
We know our communities. We know how to includes all of us. It doesn’t. I'm not in the business
get the right books to the right audiences, whether to make money. I need money to stay in business. I
that be through gay and lesbian reading groups, or need money to expand my business. But that is not
a lambda community center, the local AIDS foun- my purpose. My purpose is to change the world, to
dation, or the women’s studies program at our local end sexism, racism, homophobia, ageism, classism
colleges. We're connected to our communities and and all those “isms” that threaten us. It includes cre-
have been for years. The mainstream stores do not, ating a safe place for my sisters and brothers. I need
nor ever will, have those connections. to make money to do all those things, but I'm a very
smart woman. If I wanted to make money, selling
I'm not in the business to make books is that last thing I'd do. Our differing purpos-
es underline our deep philosophical differences.
money. I need money to stay in I want to ask the Publishing Triangle, the pub-
lishers and the mainstream booksellers who are
business. I need money to expand here, to think about some things. We're not playing
my business. on a level field. Not for the feminist presses, not for
the lesbian presses, not for the gay presses, not for
But my purpose is to change the the feminist bookstores, not for the gay and lesbian
world, to end sexism, racism, bookstores. I have absolute faith in feminist book-
sellers’ and publishers’ ability to do what we do
homophobia, ageism, classism exceptionally well. We've been doing it collectively
and all those “isms” that for almost 25 years. We are a big network. We have
a trade journal, Feminist Bookstore News. We have
threaten us. stores that are large and thriving. But we’re facing
some pretty scary competition. We have a problem.
Lee Boojamra, from Womankind Books and
We also provide a safe and knowledgeable place Rising Tide Press, spoke of feeling conflicted. I
for someone who is looking for gay and lesbian lit- share her feelings. I'm conflicted because as a les-
erature. The newly out, the closeted, the person bian I want lesbian books all over the place, and as
who doesn't feel comfortable asking for an author, I want authors to be able to make good
lesbian/gay literature doesn’t have to tiptoe around livings, and as a supporter of feminist presses, I
trying to to find the right section because we not want to have feminist and lesbian and gay press
only have gay and lesbian sections, we have but- books out in the world, but as a bookseller, I know
tons, bumperstickers, t-shirts, pink triangles, and that I have created something absolutely unique in
lambdas — all over the store. We provide a place my community, as has every other feminist book-
that validates somebody not just from the book that seller. We worked collectively in basements with
they happen to buy, but through the whole envi- mimeograph machines making books that spoke to
ronment of the store. our realities when the mainstream could not have
As a feminist bookseller, I don’t work for a cor- cared less. We sold books out of our living rooms,
poration which responds to complaints from mid- books printed on newsprint, sometimes from ditto
dle America about particular titles by pulling them machines, that were hand-collated and stapled, and
from the whole chain. I can carry the most radical, we slowly built a market. We slowly built a com-
the most queer, the most feminist, the most Outspo- munity. We built something strong and powerful
ken literature and I am committed to doing that and wonderful over this 25 year period.
and will continue whether gay is “in” or “out.” Now people in the book industry look at all the
This brings me to another point which may be money that can be made off the gay and women’s
the most important. Arnie Dolin (of Penguin U.S.A.) communities and have decided to capitalize on it. As
November 1993 22
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:14 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsa result our stores are now facing unfair competition suggest you work out that conflict before serious
from people whose value system (and I'm not just harm is done to our valuable community resources.
talking about boys, I'm talking about chain stores, Now just a few suggestions to publishers who
superstores, megaconglomerates) is to make money, claim to support the gay/lesbian communities that
by whatever means necessary — not to build com- may help to level out the playing field:
munity. Even though some people working in those ° I would suggest that if you have real commit-
businesses are part of and care about our communi- ment to disseminating lesbian and gay books,
ty, it is not the purpose of those businesses to sup- extend the same discounts to the small stores —
port our communities. The mainstream books indus- the lesbian stores, the feminist stores, the gay
try believes they can take a little of this and a little of stores — that you extend to the chain stores,
that and a big lot of that, disrespectfully, dishonor- even if that means not using a straight quantity
ably. And they can take it for as long as they want discount policy.
and when they get tired of it, they can leave it. They ° I would suggest that you offer cooperative
can take the parts of it they want and leave the advertising at the same rate to lesbian, gay and
messy and uncomfortable parts alone. I doubt we feminist stores as you do to the chains.
will ever see a Walden float in a Gay/Lesbian Pride ° Bring the lesbian and gay authors to our com-
Parade or Borders publically contributing to a les- munity and our stores first. Not only, but cer-
bian mother’s defense fund. They can take what we tainly first. Don’t siphon off the authors from
have built away from us — if we let them. One way the gay and lesbian presses. Go find your own
not to let them do this is by speaking out about it, by authors and cultivate them.
raising our own consciousness and each other's con- • When you publish gay and lesbian books, clear-
sciousness about supporting our own. ly state they are gay or lesbian on the covers. If
you're going to do it, do it. I'm tired of trying to
decipher whether “a mysterious relationship”
When the feminist and lesbian means gay or lesbian. You can’t play middle
and gay bookstores are harmed, America and the gay community simultaneous-
ly, so make up your minds.
the community is harmed, ° In advertising that you do for gay and lesbian
books, mention the gay and lesbian and feminist
period. No question about it. stores in the area.
• Don’t promote that you are publishing gay and
We have to talk about these things and raise lesbian authors, when, in fact, you are really
these complex issues. The Publishing Triangle must only publishing men. I looked at the list from
continually provide a forum for us to develop the the Lammy Awards last night: 25 of the men’s
means, collectively, to provide livings for our books were published by mainstream presses
authors, to protect the stores (feminist bookstores, compared to 8 of the women’s books. This is a
gay and lesbian bookstores) and publishers that we good example of the conflict I mentioned earlier.
have built and to demand respect for our grassroots Part of me says that’s not fair, why aren't they
industry. Let the books move into the mainstream publishing lesbians, and the other part of me
but let it happen with balance, not with us being says they're stealing lesbian writers from femi-
harmed in the process. Believe me, when the femi- nist and lesbian presses.
nist and lesbian and gay bookstores are harmed, the We have many complex issues to sort out. But
community is harmed, period. No question about it. the big question is: how can we move forward, how
If you are a gay or lesbian person working in a can we progress in the selling of our work, in the
mainstream store or publishing house, you have a marketing of our work, in the promotion of our
very difficult conflict to face. Are your loyalties to authors without doing any harm to a vital industry
the profitmaking of the business you work for or to thuate w e thaove s petnta l25k y ea rsa bbuioldiungt? L eti’s t c.on t inO-
the communities that you are a part of? I would
23
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:14 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsWhen I Am an Old Woman I Shall Wear Purple
and If I Had My Life to Live Over
I Would Pick More Daisies
Edited by Sandra Haldeman Martz
These two fine anthologies of stories, poems, and photo-
graphs by women have earned a worldwide following of
devoted readers. WhenIAman Old Woman willreachitsone
millionth copy in print by the end of 1993, and Daisies is
| O I S HLW AD W A E AWA R N PO U RM PIA AN N n e eax ase c ta her fn i i n nd bg ee o d o kt a rh t .toe a p8 l o0 i s0 n t, e e0 r0 s0 o f bm ec aa o rr l iok nr. g f uT l th h e T e -p s cho op i vru etl rsa r i a at n ry td o asf nw d et a h t te s ih tse li e r t t s pi ,t o l ee a ms s h w fa res oll m If T i c1 o n t abo a d pl ii cvm ke y mo vl oief rre e daisies
Old Woman0-918949-16-5 Paper $10; -15-7 Cloth $16.
Daisies 0-918949-24-6 Paper $10; -25-4 Cloth $16.
The Adventures of Stout Mama
Sibyl James
A collection of short tales about Stout Mama, an eclectic
feminist in her forties and a ‘bewildered techno-peas-
ant.” Engaging and droll, Stout Mama is more interested
in honesty and good times than in modern goods. A
traveler, a dreamer, a bird watcher, and a music lover,
Stout Mama is a bohemian spirit who has never owned a
television. These deliciously funny essays will send you
running to a phone to read them to your best friend.
0-918949-34-3 Cloth $14.
Learning to Sit in the Silence
A Journal of Caretaking
Elaine Marcus Starkman
How do we handle the stress of providing for our elderly
parents? Based on Ms. Starkman's experiences caring for
her aging mother-in-law, this fictional version reveals in
___S ŁeaImiLng tøE Sit Nin theCE j fo ou rr n aa nl f eo ldrm er l yt h pe a rd ea ny t- .to-day joys and challenges of caring
A Journal o| 0-91894943-2 Paper $9.00; -44-0 Cloth $14.
24 Volume 16 Number 4
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Satf:ffff on Thu, 01 Jan 1976 12:34:56 UTC
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsBy Kay Leigh Hagan
When Kay called to tell me about her idea of touring
100 feminist bookstores in a year, I invited her to send a
series of “Dispatches from the Road” — news, insights,
events and good gossip reporting on the tour and the
stores she visits. Here's the first one. -CS
Late winter 1993
Book #4, Fugitive Information: Essays from a
Feminist Hothead, will pub in July from
HarperSanFrancisco. At last, I've written a book
with a clear niche market: feminists. Beyond the
obvious, this narrow but deep audience includes
likely feminists, closet feminists, potential femi-
nists, burned-out feminists and unhappy women in the US, all one hundred (plus or minus those going
general (or kind friends who will buy F! for them as into and out of business any given week), by the
an inspirational gift). How to market such a title? end of 1994. When I say there are 100 feminist
After self-publishing, three complete publishing stores, some people say “is that all?” while others
cycles with mainstream press, being a partner in a exclaim “wow, that many?” but I know that if the
feminist bookstore, and fifteen years of studying superstores prevail, that number will diminish
and practicing feminist bookselling, the mysterious more rapidly than any of us care to imagine, and
alchemy that makes a single title take off is more books like Fugitive Information will be mighty hard
elusive to me than ever, particularly in this strange to find. So in addition to promoting the book, I
bookselling climate: Times are hard. Superstores decide to systematically alert those communities
are rampant, and ruthless. The backlash has grown lucky enough to have a feminist bookstore to sup-
into a full, frontal assault. Clearly, it’s time for the port it at this crucial time. I prepare a press kit to
Hothead Express. that effect, and send a mailing to the FBN list of
To properly bring FI to the attention of its audi- stores just after ABA. Twenty percent respond
ence, I decide to visit every feminist bookstore in favorably right away.
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:14 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
LRAT IF TORNIS HoMOPHOBIC PARETS TRIED SO
TniG LIKE THAT Í D'20U REALIZE HoW
A booksellers work is never done.
June recently shopped there. At Dreams and Swords in
First glimpse of FI at the National Women’s Indianapolis, a small group discusses what “com-
Music Fest in Bloomington, IN. Harriet of Dreams munity” means for two hours, and some disability
& Swords lets me buy the first copy of her bindery- activists teach me a thing or two. Nice eats and
shipped 60-count carton of F! and I believe I am its earnest women.
very first purchaser. It is very, very pink. Harriet
sells out after the first of my four workshops. A August
good sign. First official stop of the Hothead At the Michigan Womyn's Fest, River Arts of
Express: Full Circle in Albuquerque. As always, a Pandora (Kalamazoo, MI) and I conspire once again
close group of intense thinkers. We dissect “Bitches to sell vast quantities of Hagan books to eager
from Hell: The Politics of Self-Defense” from FI. I festies spurred on by my series of workshops.
start doing radio talk show phone interviews from Common Language (Ann Arbor) holds their own
home. The backlash alive and well in drive time. in a crowded spot in the far crafts tent. In Ferndale,
Radio jock asks on live air: “Don’t you think some MI (a lesbian enclave outside Detroit), A Woman’s
women /ike to get beaten?” Prerogative displays high retail savvy and great
style after only a few months in business. Kelly and
July Amy confess that their exterior signage has raised
FI pubs to rave reviews in PW, Booklist, and some controversy among the neighborhood mer-
Library Journal. I do seven radio interviews and pre- chants. Seems that some folks feel the sign is rather,
pare to drive east to the Michigan Fest, planning to wel], large. So, get used to it! These gals are the first
visit three stores on the way. Nature intervenes, on the block of what promises to be a happening
and the Great Flood of ‘93 totally blows my itiner- neighborhood. Reminds me a little of Charis mov-
ary. After my mechanic is unable to outfit the ing into Little Five Points twenty years ago in
Honda with pontoons, I reluctantly postpone my Atlanta. Right now, though, AWP is definitely the
stops at Visions & Dreams in Wichita, Phoenix bright spot with their fantastic paintings in the back
Books in Kansas City, and Grassroots Books in foyer and superb postcard selection. The Mystery
Iowa City. I reroute south, and take off. In Shopper nearly cleans them out. At Common
Shawnee, KS, I correct a “Rush Limbaugh — Ditto!” Language in Ann Arbor, I pull in a packed house
bumper sticker on a fancy sports jeep with “A les- and record sales for FI after doing a university
bian was here.” My knees shake as I drive away, radio interview and getting a local spot on NPR's
but I feel happy. I drop by Meristem Books in Morning Edition. Some Flint women drive down to
Memphis, TN, where their sassy window banner schmooze, shop, and deliver Festival gossip. While
proclaims, “Thelma & Louise Live!” and they reaching out to the gay male population and watch-
inform me that Susan Sarandon (Louise herself!) ing the demographics of the university community
November 1993 26
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:14 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termschange for the worse, Common Language contem- we know she'll be back. The enlarged Pandora is as
plates the great rental dilemma: should they risk comfortable and intriguing as ever, and the new
moving to a better building, better landlord and Pandora sport-shirts with the toney Katherine
more space but higher rent just across the street, or Trenshaw design are so classy, I have to have one.
hold steady where they are — bursting at the seams Goes nicely with my new Earth & Sky tee, also
with a leaky roof? (The decision was to move.) designed by Trenshaw. The Mystery Shopper is
The next night, I am not quite prepared for sorely tempted by a set of outrageous lesbian refrig-
Grand Rapids. Martha Pascoe of the burgeoning erator magnets.
Earth & Sky (7 months old), in cahoots with NOW Chicago. Third Side Press founder Midge
and the Women’s Action Alliance, have whipped Stocker shows me her perfect attic office as we dish
this Dutch Reform town into a virtual frenzy over for two days on the mysteries of book publishing
Women’s Equality Day and I speak to an overflow and dine in a posh new dyke cafe, Zazu’s, across
crowd of 100+ downtown encouraged by a full- from Women & Children First — a feminist super-
page four-color feature in the local newspaper a store if there ever was one. Do these women know
few days earlier. While an old woman of sixty-some how to stock or what? After buying the best book
confides she was the first president of NOW in light ever, I wince along with the staff when word
Grand Rapids over twenty years ago during the arrives that Borders just secured the I. Magnin
Aradia years, a young woman of twenty confesses department store building nearby. A mention in the
that Fugitive Information is her first feminist book Chicago Tribune brings another full house and good
purchase. “I was worried there might be picketers sales for FI. In her introduction, Linda says when
or bomb threats tonight,” she tells me as I sign her she read Fí, she felt like she was in a consciousness-
book. I look for stalkers as I go to my motel. At raising group. I like this. An intriguing rumor about
Earth & Sky, an “alternative awareness” store, the a new feminist store in the conservative ‘burb of
next morning, I gawk at the awesome retail blend Arlington Heights, IL, proves to be totally true.
of high-profit-margin arts, crafts, jewelry, and spiri- Prairie Moon, open only for a matter of weeks, is a
tual accessories with a modest but intelligent selec- smart lush store started by a collective of two dozen
tion of books for women. Martha, a true business suburban hotheads who bonded a few years ago
head, already has her eye on a trendy downtown while “chalking for choice” via their local NOW
location though her current residential spot is chapter, and getting arrested for some particularly
enchanting. Do not doubt this woman. bold chalking after the Webster decision. On their
I fulfill my promise to Pandora Books and sell store window: “A Feminist Store and Woman-
the Hagan overstock left from the Festival to anoth- Friendly Space.” Go, girls! The “Lone Feminist
er packed house due to some amazing feature arti- Syndrome” is a myth!
cles in the mainstream rag. Had to be slow news
day in Kalamazoo to lead off with “Kay Leigh September
Hagan — Proud to A Room of One’s Own in Madison, WI, is kind
be a Hothead,” eh? enough to have booked me on the first day of uni-
No matter — it did versity classes. The register is jammin’ with textbook
the job. A favorite sales as the full house gives me a warm welcome.
moment: signing a The Pinkest Book in the Universe continues to fly out
book for a woman the door, and Sandi succeeds in getting muy dinero
looking around out of the Mystery Shopper’s pocket with her spec-
Pandora with won- tacular card selection. This store needs more room,
der saying, “I’ve but they do exceptionally well with what they have,
lived in K’zoo for rocking chair and all. The location, in the midst of
seven years and Madison’s hoppin’ university-ville, is far too good to
never been in this let go lightly. Especially with the new Borders down
store before.” But the road making an intentional grab for Women’s
27
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:14 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Studies and lesbian customers. Do we spot a trend Mystery Shopper get a grip on her card fetish? Will FI find
here? Finally catch up with Jane Addams Bookstore, its audience? Will they cause the all-important “pulse” to
now in Champaign, IL. What a collection of used appear in F's ordering pattern, thereby garnering support
books! This jam-packed, multi-level store empha-
sizes certain sections; e.g., I entertain a small audi- press in time to alert holiday shoppers? Or at all? Will I dis-
ence in the Mystery room, and wish I had all day to cover what actually makes a book sell or will FI drop into the
peruse just the Women’s section — takes up the bet- backlist abyss without a trace? Has anyone ever thought
ter part of a floor. Again, the sidelines are intriguing, about a chain of feminist bookstores with our own distribu-
especially the cards, mostly children’s lit prints. I file tion warehouse and bulk order clout? Watch this space. Call
a request to search for The Transsexual Empire by me at 505-983-5955 to schedule the Hothead Express for
Janice Raymond and head south. your store, and receive your own fantastic Hothead press kit,
At the statewide Missouri NOW conference in complete with promotional flier customized for your store,
Springfield, I meet up with Elaine of Renaissance ready-to-send press releases, and multiple jackets for display
Books. This New Age general store has the most
spectacular array of sidelines and the most inviting at least ten copies of FI and placing in a prominent space for
and engaging display techniques I have ever seen, ten days. Orders are power, and I'm at your mercy.
as well as a rich selection of books. The Mystery Booksisters, unite! xxoo khag. O
Shopper drops big bills on spiritual accoutrements.
The store is in a weird spot, tucked away in a com-
mercial ‘burb, but that doesn’t seem to be hurting SHORT RAVES
business. I give three rockin’ workshops for the
Ozarks actiyists, infiltrate conservative Drury
College with a new talk called “The Truth About
Feminism” and finally head home for a break Deals with the Devil: and Other Reasons to
before the fall segment when the Hothead Express Riot by Pearl Cleage is an extraordinary collection
takes to the air. of essays (by this Spelman College professor) that
Twelve stores down. Eighty-eight to go. FI explores the complexities of being Black, female,
orders as of 9/30/93: 5581. heterosexual and “womanist” in contemporary
Next Installment: Portland OR, Greensboro/ America. Her work reiterates a Black feminist’s
Durhanı/Winston-Salenı/Asheville NC, Cincinnati OH, politic rooted in the specific cultural experience of
and Atlanta GA. Will HarperSanFrancisco decide to fund the displaced African woman.
this tour? Will the Hothead Express find sponsors who will? “I am writing,” she says, “because five women a
Will my credit cards hold out until they do? Will the day are murdered by the men who say they love
them. I am writing because I am a daughter and a
mother and a lover and a sister and a wonmianist... I
am writing to find solutions and pass them on... I
am writing so I won't start crying again... I am writ-
ing because nobody said the word sexism to me
until I was thirty years old and I want to know
why... I am writing, writing, writing for my life.”
What’s wonderful about Cleage’s essays and
stories is that they stem from our actual experi-
ences; her work empowers us to act. It should be
mandatory for every African American woman
(young or old) to read Deals with the Devil. It has
the power to save lives. A revoluntionary work.
$22 cl, 345-38278-1. Ballantine Books.
Madwimmin Books on the fictional map. —DLM O
November 1993 28 Volume 16 Number 4
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:14 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Outwrite 93
This year's OutWrite was remarkable in its lack of ably contrasting views: one proclaims the revived
controversies, political (and not-so-political) battles, in slogan that feminism is “the radical notion that
the consistently high quality of workshops, and for let- women are people,” while the other offers Pat
ting go of the rigidly co-gendered panel setups so there Robertson's observation that “The Equal Rights
could be, for example, a panel on the success of the les- Amendment encourages women to leave their hus-
bian press movement that was made up entirely of les- bands, kill their children, practice witchcraft,
bians(!). It was just what most of its participants hoped destroy capitalism and become lesbians.”
it would be and — it is rumored to have broken even! There has always been a mystique surrounding
In this issue we're reprinting an article that looks at feminism — a mystique that breeds not only pride,
OutWrite from a set of assumptions that are slightly dif- but also fear.
ferent from FBN’s normal editorial stance... —CS
The most recent incarnation
By Nancy Boutilier
At this year’s annual gay and lesbian writers of discrediting feminism as
conference, OutWrite ‘93, I was struck by how
many women speaking made the effort to define rigid and unthinking is
themselves as feminists. Admittedly, feminism has
been taking a beating lately, as if one has to confess associating feminism with
to being a feminist, or come out of the closet.
Feminism is the F-word of the ‘90s. “political correctness.”
“Hi, my name is Jewelle, and I'm a lesbian femi-
nist,” quipped Jewelle Gomez in her keynote Some people still see it as a euphemism for lesbian,
address. But she wasn’t kidding. She proudly pro- and that certainly shows in the young women I see in
claimed her lesbian feminist roots. She spoke about my high school classroom. They say they believe in
the need for people to acknowledge the political equal pay for equal work, and in equal opportunity,
dimensions of their words and actions. And, yes, it but surely, they insist, they are not feminists.
made my heart sing to hear Gomez declare her alle- Feminism has a long history of being equated
giance to feminism. with a rigidness of thought, a party line.
Feminism, of course, means many things to The most recent incarnation of discrediting fem-
many people. A pair of T-shirts offers two remark- inism as rigid and unthinking is in its association
November 1993
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:14 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
with the phrase “political correctness.” So-called “Because we don’t agree with the mythos of
political correctness connotes a blindness to dogma what little girls and boys are made of, we are dan-
— not that anyone has ever taken the time and gerous in the status quo,” said Chrystos in her
energy to identify the tenets of that dogma. There is address. “I believe it’s very silly to want to be
a certain bravado with which many people assert accepted by the so-called mainstream. I think they
their political incorrectness, as if the defiance of one need to be accepted by us. They have a long, hard
dogma suggests independent thought. I know job ahead of them.”
because I have used the phrase “political incorrect-
ness” with the self-righteousness of an independent The need to dismiss
thinker myself.
But I don’t think I will again. During her feminism is the need to
keynote address at OutWrite 93, Chrystos chal-
lenged me to think once again about the source and preserve the status quo.
intent of that phrase. “We face dangerous phrases
and words which must be deconstructed,” said And if we accept the language of those who
Chrystos. “The concept of ‘political correctness’ has prefer the status quo to change, if we latch onto the
been abused until our natural understanding of jus- labels they use to silence voices of conscience, if we
tice has been lost in embarrassment. We know that shut down dialogue with the curse of politically
discrimination and abuse are morally wrong, but “correct” or “incorrect,” then we cheat ourselves of
the ruling corporations find it inconvenient for us important, substantive debate.
to have a conscience and set about to destroy our What excited me most about Gomez’s address
common sense with glitzy advertising, lies, mock- was not so much her identification with feminism
ery, and cooptation.” but, rather, her definition of it. Hers was a defini-
tion which seemed to acknowledge the inequities in
the world, to insist upon the interconnectedness of
“I believe it’s very silly to all people, and to call for action against inequities.
In retrospect, calling her beliefs “correct” or
want to be accepted by the “incorrect” hardly seems relevant. But they certain-
so-called mainstream. I ly are political. And she had the courage to stand
up and proclaim those beliefs.
think they need to be defi nG ito im one z o fn e v fe er m ia ns is se mrt . e d I n t h fa at c t ,h e sr hs e is n e vn eo rt ot fh fe e ro en dl y a
accepted by us.” definition at all. But, since she said that her writing
is informed by her feminism, I have done my best
— Chrystos to extract a definition from her address. Perhaps I
am projecting my own definition onto her. No mat-
The need to dismiss feminism is the need of ter, the point here is that we need to foster debate
those who wish to preserve the status quo — in the rather than smother it. Ultimately, our actions, not
mainstream community as well as the lesbian and the labels, will identify us.
gay community. Nobody who accepts a dogma For now, we need to avoid bandwagons — both
blindly is an independent thinker, to be sure, but of the blind acceptance of ideas and the blind dis-
nobody who rejects one blindly is either. missal of them. We need to move past what is cor-
The charge of “political correctness” is an argu- rect” and “incorrect” to thoughtfully consider the
ment with all the substance of name-calling. It is a ramifications of our words and our actions. Only
wonderful way to shut people up. Ironically, those then will we have a shot at changing the world.
who slap the label of “P.C.” on others are often the
ones who are asserting that feminists are trying to This article was reprinted from the Bay Area
stifle debate. Reporter (BAR), published weekly in San Francisco. O
November 1993 30 Volume 16 Number 4
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126f:ffff:ffff:ffff:ffff on Thu, 01 Jan 1976 12:34:56 UTC
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
\ VS
O O
By Carol Seajay (videos being much higher ticket items than books).
Other than that? “Maybe it’s all the media attention
Watch for Theresa Corrigan’s superb article on to ‘The Year of the Queer.”
the state of feminist bookselling in the November Seal Press also reports that 1993 has been a great
Sojourner. If you haven’t read it yet, drop everything year financially — the best ever. Doing books in
(including this magazine) and go find it. Then make cloth that are actually selling, having a lot of
three phone calls to get your local paper to reprint it frontlist titles from highly respected repeat authors,
(don’t forget to get Soj’s permission). If you don’t strong backlist sales, and sales reps (PGW) are all
have a local feminist or gay/lesbian paper, run it in contributing factors to this year’s success.
your newsletter, photocopy it and give it away on
your front counter... (Don’t forget to credit Soj and 13,
run their address and sub rates...) This is the stuff O 9 ooo
that our Feminist Bookstore Network Education Many independent and feminist bookstores,
Committee dreams were made of.... meanwhile, are reporting flat sales for late summer
and early fall. Chain stores aren't doing so well
Unexpected: For 10 points, guess which main- either. According to Newswire, Encore and Crown
stream publishing house signed drag queen RuPaul reported a net loss and decreased profit respective-
(whom you may remember from the main stage ly for the second quarter of 1993 as compared to the
event at the March on Washington).... Wrong, second quarter of 1992 despite increased sales.
wrong, and wrong unless you guessed Hyperion. Encore, with 103 bookstores, reported a net loss of
Hyperion? Yep. The publishing arm of the Disney $1.1 million for the first half of the year compared
empire. Disney — which practically measures the to a loss of $103,000 for the first half of 1992, despite
hair length of its squeaky clean park staff and an increase in sales of 17.2% to $31.5 million for the
fought a lawsuit to prevent same-sex couples from second quarter. Crown’s net income for the first six
dancing together at Disneyland.... (A ban which, months of 1993 was $1.6 million, down from $2.8
by the way, has been lifted in recent years at the million for the same period in 1992 despite an
behest of teen-age girls everywhere.) Thanks to increase in revenues of 10.6% to $114.7 million for
the first six months of the year. Crown attributed its
sales increases to sales at its Super Crown Books
Pokey Anderson at 9) o fOor th isR oNne. stores. Crown now operates 242 bookstores includ-
ing 45 Super Crown stores, compared to 250 stores
Naiad reports that, financially speaking, 1993 including 18 superstores last year. Both companies
has been as wonderful as 1992 was terrible, with showed declining profits in the second quarter as
the first six months of 1993 being their biggest six compared to the first quarter of 1993.
months in history and no end in sight for the rest of Speaking of chains — Wal-Mart's pricing on
the year. Why? Part, but only part, of the succe$$ drugstore items was held to be illegal by an
comes from Claire of the Moon/Moments video sales Arkansas district court. Three pharmacies’ owners
November 1993
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:14 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsArkansas is one of 23 states with laws which
prohibit the sale of merchandise below cost “for the
purpose of injuring competitors and destroying
competition.” Wal-Mart, with 2,300 outlets and
$55.5 billion in revenues, is expected to appeal.
Wal-Mart stock prices dropped by 75 cents/per
share the day of the ruling. Matthew Adlong, the
lead lawyer for the pharmacies, reported that he
had a stack of messages on his desk from people
who wanted to sue Wal-Mart or other large dis-
counters for predatory pricing, following the
lower-court victory. Wal-Mart owns Borders and
Waldenbooks.
Booksellers will obviously be watching this case
very closely as it moves its way up through the
appeals courts.
The 1994 Year of the Goddess 0o00 O q
Calendar News from Aotearo
NEW ZEALAND: Parliament passed an Amend-
ment to the Human Rights Act outlawing discrimi-
nation against gays and lesbians this summer. An
To order, contact: attempt by the right wing to exempt the Police and
Epona Graphics Armed Forces was defeated. During the same ses-
2 D4 e0 n v eS r. , B Cro Oa d 8w 0a 2y 0 9 #201 ws imio hn i c bh ai t n e s m a l os po no w p “ea ars nss ye d C u m sa t a t on em re s iw a l t a o tn h t s ei e y- ip z o e wr n ia so n hg d .r ” a p p Lh l eay c sbe il aa i nnw ter-
(303) 698-1824 activists are assuming that lesbian and gay books
will be among the first seized and that Her
Majesty's Customs will then be in breach of the
argued that their businesses suffered from Wal- new human rights legislation and “We will have
Mart's predatory prices on a variety of health care the legal right to sue them!” In 1985 New Zealand’s
man oud t h wp ae sr hs o ann da l o vp err -o thd eu -cc ot us n t ei rn c mlu edd ici in ng es . t Oo no ethpaste, I Dnd ee pc aen rt t m Pu eb nli tca t i ro en qs u T er si tb u n ta ol r e cj le ac ste sd i f a y C u Ts eto em s Corinne’s
of them testified that he shopped at Wal-Mart for Yantras of Womanlove and Katherine V. Forrest's
certain merchandise to stock his store because the Curious Wine as indecent while agreeing to classify
sp alr e.ices were cheaper than he could get at whole- s C/ om nin c l Ous ui tv e m ighat te ,r i aa nls i n Ac l u Dd ifin fg eC no tm Lin og t o P io nw de er c,
m i g R d er v e a s ent
enga gJ eu dd g ie n D pa rv ei dd a t R ore yy n o pl rd is c i nr gu l e ad n d t h ba at s e dW a hl- im s a rr ut l i nh gad , and u Tp hr ao nh kipb si t e td o d Jfo er n n i yma p Fo ur ltt t. on e and N. ai ad P ressO for this
in part, on Wal-Mart's stated policy of pricing to
“meet or beat the competition without regard to
cost” and its in-store comparisons of prices at its
competitors, including the three pharmacies that
brought the suit. He ordered Wal-Mart to pay
$298,000 in damages to the three pharmacies.
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:14 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
By Joan Turner business before so I feel awkward about the
Bold Print, Inc. process, but I know I'll learn how to do this just as
Winnipeg, MB I've learned to do so many other things in the book
business. I think of May Sarton’s novel The
Traveling north from Winnipeg we stop in Education of Harriet Hatfield. Like Harriet, who also
Neepawa, Manitoba to visit the childhood home of inherited some money from a woman, making it
Margaret Laurence, one of Canada’s best known possible to open the store, my eight years in a femi-
authors. Her books include The Diviner and Stone nist bookselling business have certainly been edu-
Angel. Continuing on our way to our weekend holi- cational. I often liken it to working on a doctorate,
day destination, we pass through wide open plains
enjoying the greens of an unusually wet rainy sum-
mer and the golden yellows of fall. Farms and old
wooden buildings, remind us that people live in
this region, so far removed from the aggressiveness
of city-life, from a bookstore owner's worries, from something I contemplated but never did, deciding I
numbers and dollars and paying bills — all that is couldn't effectively parent and be a doctoral stu-
said to be important. dent. When my daughters were both in medical
“Why do you want to sell Bold Print?” I'm school I became a student of bookselling. Now I am
asked. I hesitate. So much of my money, creativity ready to work less and to concentrate on my work
and anxiety have gone into Bold Print in the seven as a therapist, to walk in the park with my friend
years since August 1986 when we opened our and her baby, to contemplate and to write and to be
doors. A year later there was a story and pictures more physically active and healthy. I want to read
about us in FBN. I handed in my resignation at the whole books through, not just glance quickly at
university where I'd taught for almost 20 years and book covers and tables of content, catalogues and
book reviews.
I want to be free of the stress of bookkeeping
which I've learned to do because it had to be done.
I'd like to pass on the responsibility for financing
the store to another woman or women.
my partner abruptly quit, leaving me holding the The store has potential but it requires energy
responsibility. It felt like having to be a single par- and day to day commitment. We will continue to
ent when you never even contemplated that possi- stock the shelves, provide booktables at many con-
bility. We hired Heidi, then Pat, and Anne to co- ferences, to host author readings and book launch-
parent and they did, pouring a tremendous amount es, to create mail order catalogues, and to host writ-
of energy and concern into Bold Print for five years ing workshops. Creative writing workshops have
until deciding to move on to Saltspring Island on been our most recent venture, generating a little
the West Coast, to Herizons magazine, to Montreal. revenue for us, and immense goodwill. Di Brandt,
Now it’s my turn to move on. I've never sold a author of Questions I Asked My Mother, Agnes in the
33 November 1993
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:14 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsSky and Mother not Mother and soon to be released
Wild Mother Dancing: Maternal Narrative in Canadian
Literature (University of Manitoba Press, December
1993), was the teacher-facilitator for our July and
August workshops. One of the workshop partici-
pants came from Chicago specifically for the work-
shop, and another was here from Germany. We had
a wonderful time writing. Even I wrote up a storm.
The July workshop group read at Bold Print on a
Sunday afternoon in mid-September taking our
writing through to a public reading and having a
very positive experience doing so. The August writ-
ing group is hoping to have writing published in
CV2, a feminist literary journal. Our October 30th
workshop was led by Betsy Warland, author of The
Bat Had Blue Eyes and Proper Deafinitions. Interested
in our writing workshops? Let us know and we'll
try our best to accommodate you.
But, quite frankly, the future of Canadian
women’s bookstores concerns me. Most of our stores
opened in the 70s and 80s. How many will close in
the 90s as the recession continues to batter even the
most hardy among us? Today I learned that about a
month ago the Toronto Women’s Bookstore laid all
staff off rather than close its doors. It is open because
former staff and others are volunteering to keep it
going. Esther Vise of the store says they are restruc-
turing and planning to advertise for a general man-
ager. The Northern Woman’s Bookstore (Thunder
Bay) is “plugging along” according to owner Marg
Philips. Bold Print (Winnipeg) and Ariel Books
(Vancouver) are stressed, too.
What can and will the Feminist Bookstore
Network really do for Canadian feminist book-
stores? Will you place ads in Canadian as well as
U.S.A. magazines, arrange for author tours into
Canada? Why would our American sisters work
for our benefit unless we organize for ourselves?
Through this article I'm asking the Toronto area
feminist bookstores to arrange at least a social
gathering at the time of the July 1994 Canadian
Booksellers Association (CBA) conference in
| November 1993 34 Toronto. I've been to two CBAs and as far as I can
Volume 16 Number 4
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:14 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
deduce there have been no connecting of feminist this week we're having problems with Canada
bookstores nor feminist publishers. They were Customs, not unlike a number of other Canadian
quite lonely experiences for me. CBA would help bookstores. Our last order from Inland was stopped
us organize an event like they have done for chil- at the border and some titles detained. We are told
dren’s bookstores if there is sufficient interest to that they are new titles and this is pre-Christmas
make it financially viable. What do other Canadian season. A New Age bookstore owned by a woman
booksellers think? Is there an interest in getting has just relocated within a block of us.
together and looking at how we can network? On
the other hand, probably the Feminist Network is
the way to go, strengthening the north-south con-
nections first, then the east-west. Or, should we be
doing both simultaneously? Who from Canadian
feminist bookstores is considering, and can afford Yet, women expect us to have the biggest selec-
to travel to, either or both ABA or CBA? Most of tion, lowest prices and best services (information,
us have to carefully budget even long distance reference, research, even on the spot counseling).
phone calls. We are a well educated staff, two have social work
My conversations with Marg Philips (Northern degrees, one fine arts and one education degree.
Women’s Bookstore), Margo Dunn (Ariel Books) We have a clean, attractive, street-front, wheelchair
and Barbara Szlavko (Womansline Books/ and stroller accessible store in Osborne Village
London, Ontario) confirm that the Feminist where there are many good restaurants, boutiques
Network is a very good idea. We are delighted that and bookstores. The decision to move on, to sell,
Barb is on the Network Steering Committee. But has freed me to write, to breathe, and to laugh.
has the Network come too late? In 1992-93 our This is my gift to myself in my 57th year. If the
mainstream competitor chose the time of our staff Feminist Bookstore Network has a regional (which
changes to expand their women’s section and their is probably most feasible) or “international” event
lesbian and gay titles. Then they arranged for or gathering I'd like Bold Print to be there, but I
Gloria Steinem to come to speak for a large public may not be.
event. Ellen Bass came to Winnipeg through a Last but not least, we have a mail order cata-
Minneapolis organizer insisting on bringing a logue on sexual abuse which we are sending under
bookseller from Minneapolis to sell the same books separate cover. We think it’s very good and we’d be
we stock here. Steinem and Bass and the Bass happy to share it as long as supplies last. I'm not
event organizers seem not to realize the impact of confident that any Feminist Network catalogue
their actions. After all, Canada is a market and we would include Canadian content, though I'd like to
can assume they took back profits. When the big anticipate otherwise. Thanks, FBN, for continuing
chainstores like Coles sell Bass’ Courage to Heal and your interest in Canadian Content over the years
Steinem’s Revolution from Within and get their stock and especially for printing the inspiring, informa-
first and our order of Revolution goes missing twice tive “Herstory of a Women’s Press: Press Gang
we wonder if the universe conspires against us. Printers” in your August issue.
One of our accounts, Thomas Allen, paid up
fully since May, informs us in September that they Joan Turner is the owner and co-feunder of Bold
will supply us only if we prepay. They have had Print, Inc. She has edited two books, Perspectives on
our order, including some special orders, since Women and Living the Changes (University of
June. We have credit monies with several compa- Manitoba Press). She is the author of “Let My Soul Soar:
nies and since we no longer are ordering from them Touch Therapy” in Healing Voices: Feminist
we ask for payment by cheque. Months go by Approaches to Therapy with Women (Laidlaw and
before the cheques arrive. Credit for returned books Malmo editors) and of “She Came When She Was
and for co-operative advertising often takes Re1ady,,” p ubSlisphed r ini Pnottegrsf iel d 1 Por9tfo9lio,3 v.ol . 15 O n0.
months, too. It seems this is standard practice. And
35 November 1993
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:14 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Radicals of the Worst Sort
Laboring Women in Lawrence,
Massachusetts, 1860-1912
Ardis Cameron
Focusing on the textile workers’ strikes of 1882
and 1912, Ardis Cameron examines class and gender
formation as drawn from the experience and language
of the working-class neighborhoods of Lawrence.
Radicals of the Worst Sort is an exciting history that
will illuminate ongoing debates about the dynamic role
of gender and shifting perceptions and definitions of
what a “woman” should be. Cameron shows clearly
that the working women who unionized and fought
for equality were considered the “worst” sort because
they challenged both economic and sexual hierarchies,
providing alternative models for turn-of-the-century
women. Illus. Cl: $36.95
Confronting AIDS
Here fifteen leading historians of women and American through Literature
history explore women’s public political action from The Responsibilities of Representation
1830 to 1930. While illustrating the scope and racial, Edited by Judith Laurence Pastore
ethnic, and class diversity of women’s public activism, This enlightening anthology offers readers an array of
they also clarify the conceptual issues raised by that viewpoints on the use of literature to confront AIDS as
—d fii nv e d Kr i ans ti g ht y r . ym nu“ I c h K r i se t ha hd a St t k h li ai ss r , n b e So w Uok N a Y nw -d Bi t i nh u g n ht a avr me aim tla oe b nn led o u els s e i wn hte er re es .”t, a s aa s m s o Apc Ili Dea s Sl , o ll f ii t t e e rcr r aa ter uay t r, i ev e a an nwd d r im t ti he n ed g i c c a a rl n e adp t h i oee nsn s o a m oy fse n aoo nn g. as yI ut c h ci un ltc tol uu p rd i ece ;ss the
CI: $47.50; Pb: $18.95 denial of AIDS; teaching about AIDS and plagues;
AIDS and gays on the American stage and screen;
Feminist Theory and the and AIDS as a source of spiritual wisdom.
Study of Folklore “An invaluable collection; highly recommended.”
Edited by Susan Tower Hollis, Linda Pershing, — Library Journal
and M. Jane Young CI: $39.95; Pb: $12.95
Taking a performance-centered perspective on folk-
lore, contributors to this volume challenge patriarchal
assumptions of the past and rethink old topics from a
feminist perspective while opening new areas of re-
search. In eighteen chapters the book covers girls’ Order toll free 800/545-4703
eg ra sm , e s d, a i lp yo l i hti oc ua sl e wc oar rt ko ,o n Es g, y pqu tii alt ni n g g, o d dP ee sn st ee sc ,o s tt aa ll l p tr ale ea sc ,h- University of Illinois Press
and birth. Illus. Cl: $44.95; Pb: $18.95 54 East Gregory Drive e Champaign, IL 61820
November 1993 36 Volume 16 Number 4
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:14 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
MLA is supporting the series with a $25,000
Women’s Life Writings advertising and direct mail campaign (including
ads in FBN and The Women’s Review of Books). 70,000
Northeastern University Press will be publish- brochures and catalogs will be sent to MLA mem-
ing a new series, Women’s Life Writings from bers and customers advising readers that the books
Around the World, which springs from the grow- are available from “fine independent and college
ing interest in women’s lives, self-referential litera- bookstores.”
ture, and the need to extend the knowledge of Complimentary readers copies are available to
women’s life writings. It will include translations of booksellers. Write or fax the MLA Promotions
personal narratives written by women and will be Coordinator at 212-614-6304; fax 212-477-9863 or
edited by Marilyn Yalom, a senior scholar at the write MLA, 10 Astor Place, NY NY 10003. O
Institute for Research on Women and Gender at
Stanford University. The first volume in the series Banner Books
is Efronia: An Armenia Love Story by Stina
Katchadourian, published this fall. O Banner Books, a new imprint of the University
Press of Mississippi, will feature paperback reprints
Text and Translations bof y f wic ot ri lo dn a a un td h o rli st e tr har aty an ro en f di ic st ti io nn g u w isr hi et dt e n b y i n l i tE en rg arli ysh
merit and/or cultural significance. The books are
The Modern Language Association has under- intended for general readers and students of litera-
taken a new series, Texts & Translations, which will ture and culture. Books in the series will include a
feature original texts and English translations of newly written critical introduction establishing the
works not otherwise available in affordable edi- importance of the work and placing it within the
tions. The books will be issued as trade paperbacks context of literary and cultural history. The first
at extraordinarily low prices ($3.95 to $6.95). The Banner title will be The Snare, a 1972 novel by
first two volumes, to be published in January, are EliNzabethe Spwencer se t Oin thre slineistear unndersside. of Q
eighteenth-century novels written by women.
Letters of Mistress Henley Published by Her Friend by
Isabelle de Charriere was written in response to February 3 —
Samuel de Constant’s misogynist novel Te Birthday Promotion?
Sentimental Husband and is considered by many to
be one of the most brilliant novels written in French University of Wisconsin Press’ long awaited
in the eighteenth century. Letters from a Peruvian edition of Gertrude Stein’s Geography & Plays is
Woman by Françoise de Graffigny, a vehemently finally available in December. Wisconsin will also
feminist protest — and one of the most popular publish The Red Virgin: A Poem of Simone Weil by
novels of the eighteenth century — was written in Stephanie Strickland. The press points out that
the form of letters from an Incan woman kidnapped Stein and Weil have the same birthday — February
by the Spaniards during their conquest of Peru. 3. F Neede anb idera four a a winrdowy disp?lay ? in ? ear ly O
Both are reported to be great reads.
November 1993
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:14 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
The Athene Series
STUD : The Athene Series (at Teachers College Press
a since 1992) is alive and doing very well especially
with this summer's publication of Making Violence
new titles Sexy: Feminist Views on Pornography edited by Diana
vVVVVVVVVVVVVYV E. H. Russell. Plans for the future include reissuing
great classic feminist books like Men Who Control
Women’s Health: The Miseducation of Obstetrician-
How Am I to Be Heard? Gynecologists by Diana Scully and The Transsexual
Letters of Lillian Smith Empire: The Making of the She-Male by Janice. G.
MARGARET ROSE GLADNEY, EDITOR Raymond, both due out in January, 1994. o
“A clear and fascinating portrait of the artist as activ-
ist.”—Emily Toth, Washington Post Book World Women Writers:
“A truly wonderful book.”—Adrienne Rich Texts and Contexts
406 pp., $34.95 Gender and American Culture
" : s Rutgers is pleased to announce Women Writers:
Rediscovering Forgotten Radicals Texts and Contexts, an innovative casebook series
Siilsh Women Waiters, 1889-1959 featuring short fiction by women writers. Each vol-
AINGELAINGRAM SIDAPHNE PATAL EDITORS ume contains essays demonstrating various
“One of the finest examples of New Intellectual His- approaches to criticism, from formalist New
tory in practice.”—Jane Marcus Criticism to feminist theory. The first four volumes
328 pp., $45 cloth, $17.95 paper in the series are A Good Man Is Hard to Find by
Lost in Space Flannery O'Connor, Flowering Judas by Katherine
Probing Feminist Science Fiction and Beyond Anne Porter, The Yellow Wallpaper by Charlotte
MFAoRrLeEEwN o Sr. d B A RbRy P e rMkinasr gGielm anP,i eanrdc yYe l loMw a Wrommaonn b y S Lielsklieo. O
“Excellent. . . . [Barr's work] redraws the basic cate- :
gories of analysis and has an impact on the study of Re-Reading the Canon
literary practice in general.”—Donna Haraway
248 pp ., P $3p9.95. c lot$h, $ 1c4.9l5 o Ut~,h, $ Poper Penn State Press announces a new series, Re-
Entitled to Power Reading the Canon, to be edited by Nancy Tuana.
Farm Women and Technology, 1913-1963 This new series will consist of edited collections of
KATHERINE JELLISON essays, some original and some previously pub-
“[An] important study of federal policy and women's lished, offering feminist reinterpretations of the
response to it."—Joan M. Jensen writings of major figures in the Western philosophi-
240 pp., $39.95 cloth, $13.95 paper cal tradition. Devoted to the work of a single
Gender and American Culture philosopher, each volume will contain essays cover-
ing the full range of the philosopher's thought and
A a representing the diversity of approaches now being
)N O) R tT H + C»A RinOcLlIuNdAe: uFseemdi n bisyt fInemteirnpirste t actrioitnics s . o fT i tPlleast o s cehdeidtuedle d b yfor 1994
at bookstores or by toll-free order Nancy Tuana (Spring) and Feminist Interpretations of
CT hH aE p e U l N HIV illE R »S I T PY h o nO eF (N 80O 0R ) T 8H 4 8 -C 6A 2R 24O ,L I FN aA x P (8R 0E 0S ) S 272-6817 N tii tealt ez ss c nwhe il l e d idnit ce ld u d eb y w oM rKa kr si l y on n a P He eangr es la ,l l A t( rF ea nll.d). t ,1 9 D9 e5 rrOida,
November 1993 38 Volume 16 Number 4
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:14 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
BACKLISTS
|
By Dawn L. Martin Also from Michigan:
Showing how “ordinary” people turn activist
Some wonderful backlist titles that haven’t been Forged Under the Sun/Forjada Bajo el Sol: The
reviewed elsewhere in FBN... Life of Maria Elena Lucas edited and with an
Introduction by Fran Leeper Buss provides a rich
From the University of California Press comes oral history of this remarkable Chicana woman.
Building With Our Hands: New Directions in After surviving poverty, hardship, and even pesti-
Chicana Studies edited by Adela de la Torre and
Beatríz M. Pesquera, “the first interdisciplinary col-
lection of articles addressing the unique history of
Chicana women.” This book is a must for anyone
interested in cultural imperialism as it affects
Chicana women. Building With Our Hands pre-
sents the diverse voices of this historically
oppressed group. $14 pb, 0-520-07090-9; $45 c|, -
07089-5. The University of California Press, 2120
Berkeley Way, Berkeley CA 94720.
The History of Mary Prince, A West Indian
Slave: Related by Herself has been reprinted by >
the University of Michigan Press, edited by Moira
Ferguson, with a preface by Ziggi Alexander.
“Mary Prince was the first Black British woman to
escape from slavery and publish a record of her
experiences.” This historic text unveils the “horrors cide poisoning, Lucas emerges as a strong and out-
of slavery” as Prince vividly recalls her life as a spoken champion of the Farm Worker Organizing
slave in Bermuda, Turks Island, and Antigua, her Committee. Forged Under the Sun is an inspira-
rebellion against degradation, and her eventual tional story that “explores the nature of memory
escape to London in 1828. When received by British and resistance.” $16.95 pb, 0-472- 06432-0; $42.50 c],
audiences in 1831, The History of Mary Prince 0-472-09432-7.
“inflamed public opinion and created political Ellen Donkin and Susan Clement have edited
havoc.” An extraordinary and engaging book that Upstaging Big Daddy: Directing Theater as if
places the Black woman squarely in the making of Gender and Race Matter, a collection of essays that
history. $10.95, 0-472-08246-9. focus on the problematic notion of a non-represen-
Volume 16 Number 4 November 1993
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:14 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termstative theater movement. The essays in the collec- technology like sonograms. $17.95 cl, 0-674-21267-3.
tion argue that directing has historically “worked in Harvard University Press, 79 Garden Street,
the service of a body of dramatic literature that has Cambridge MA 02138. IN.
routinely minimized or distorted the lives of
women, people of color, gay men and lesbians.” The University of Wisconsin Press has pub-
The authors also examine what it means in this lished My Lord, What a Morning by Marian
world of biased representation to be a woman Anderson, the autobiography of one of the most
director or actor. $16.95 pb, 0-472-06503-3. glorious contralto voices in history. Although
University of Michigan Press. 839 Greene Street, PO Anderson studied with the renowned Giuseppe
Box 1104, Ann Arbor MI 48106. BP and IN. Boghetti, went on tour in the United States and
Europe achieving international fame, and appeared
Writing the Circle: Native Women of Western as a soloist with the New York Metropolitan Opera,
Canada, an anthology compiled and edited by she still faced intense racism. Because she was
Jeanne Perreault and Sylvia Vance, gives Native African American, Anderson was denied the right
women a place to speak. This collection of voices to sing at Constitution Hall, so she sang instead on
“invokes the major paradigm of Native thought: the steps of the Lincoln Memorial. My Lord is a
life, time, seasons, cosmology, birth, womb, and wonderful, engaging autobiography that was first
earth are intrinsically located in the symbology of published in 1956. 0-299-13394-X. 114 N. Murray
the circle.” A unique and multi-genred anthology Street, Madison WI 53715-1199.
that begins to re-place Native women on the map of
human existence. $12.95 pb, 0-8061-2437-7.
University of Oklahoma Press, 1005 Asp Avenue,
Norman OK 73019. BP, IN. a
Jacqueline Rose’s The Haunting of Sylvia Plath kass
is a critical study of Plath’s work that is sure to
evoke interest from intellectuals, academics, read- Latina Politics/Latino Politics: Gender,
ers and writers of poetry, and Plath enthusiasts. As Culture, and Political Participation in Boston by
the author says in her preface, “Interpretation of a Carol Hardy-Fanta is a sociological investigation
literary work is endless,” and certainly in this into community events in North Dorchester,
poet's case interest in her life and her work contin- Jamaica Plain, and the South End. Hardy-Fanta
ues to blossom. “As Rose demonstrates in her ambi- interviews Latinas and Latinos from Puerto Rico,
tious and original book,” says Elaine Showalter of the Dominican Republic, and Central and South
the London Review of Books, “Plath has become one America to document the contributions of Latina
who ‘haunts culture,’ the ‘Marilyn Monroe of the women which are often ignored. $18.95 pb 1-56639-
literati.” $14.95 pb, 0-674-38226-9. 032-X; $44.95 cl, -031-1. Temple University Press,
Broad & Oxford Street, Philadelphia PA 19122. BP.
a Exploring exciting and controversial issues such
fs as the body and its adornments, why women
choose cosmetic surgery, and the ways power and
Disembodying Women: Perspectives on resistance work in institutional settings,
Pregnancy and the Unborn by Barbara Duden is an Negotiating at the Margins: The Gendered
academic study about how advanced technology Discourses of Power and Resistance edited by Sue
has affected pregnancy. This text may be a ground- Fisher and Kathy Davis is an interesting collection
breaking examination, similar to Foucault's study of essays. The text is certainly useful for Women’s
of madness, about how women’s lives and the per- Studies students and professors who want to
ceptions of women have changed due to modern explore more contemporary issues in feminism. $15
40
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:14 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
pb 0-8135-1971-3; $45 cl, -1970-5. Rutgers University Helen experiences as she savors the sun on her face
Press, 109 Church Street, New Brunswick NJ 08901. during walnut-picking expeditions. $24.95 c], 0-8263-
1446-5. University of New Mexico Press, 1720 Lomas
Challenging the predominant discourses on Blvd. NE, Albuquerque NM 87131. BP, IN.
health, Wings of Gauze: Women of Color and the
Experience of Health and Illness, edited by
Barbara Bair and Susan E. Cayleff seeks to remove a
from the center contemporary accounts of women’s =
health and “health history that focus on white, mid-
dle-class women.” The editors focus on the theory Ranch Wife by Jo Jeffers, a classic of
that for women of color “health” and “illness” con- Southwestern literature first published in 1964, has
cepts are “inextricably tied to a consciousness of been reissued in a new paperback edition by the
their [our] history.” Wings of Gauze is a book for University of Arizona Press. It is the autobiography
health care workers, policy makers, students in the of a woman who, as a young girl suffering from
humanities and social sciences, and anyone con- asthma, promised herself, “When I grow up, if I
cerned about issues of health and cultural diversity ever do, I shall go to Arizona and be a cowboy.”
in America. $19.95 pb, 0-8143-2302-2; $39.95 cl, - Her book describes life as the wife and partner of a
2301-4. Wayne State University Press, The Leonard rancher in the high country of northeastern
N. Simons Building, 5959 Woodward Avenue, Arizona, with its attendant dust storms, plagues
Detroit MI 48202. and other tribulations. $14.95 pb, 0-8165-1386-4. The
University of Arizona Press, 1230 N. Park Avenue,
Two children’s titles from University of Tucson AZ 85719. BP, IN.
Nebraska Press are: When Thunders Spoke and
The Chichi Hoohoo Bogeyman, both by Virginia Making Connections: Women’s Studies,
Driving Hawk Sneve. When Thunder Spoke is the Women’s Movements, Women’s Lives, edited by
haunting story of a fifteen-year-old boy who finds Mary Kennedy, Cathy Lubelska and Val Walsh is a
an ancient relic with the power to make strange wide-ranging collection of essays that bring togeth-
things happen ($7.95 pb, 0-8032-9220-1). The er “contributions which address key issues and
Chichi Hoohoo Bogeyman is about three Indian debates in contemporary women’s studies and fem-
girls who are cousins. They encounter a bizarre inism.” Topics include: coalition politics, “The
creature while secretly exploring an old fort on the Precariousness of Heterosexual Feminist
South Dakota prairie ($6.95 pb, 0-8032-9219-8). Identities,” and God’s male image. This book looks
Virginia Driving Hawk Sneve spent most of her like it might turn out to be a central text in women’s
childhood on the Rosebud Sioux Reservation and studies. 0-7484-0098-2. Taylor & Francis, 1900 Frost
still lives in South Dakota. BP, IN. Road Suite 101, Bristol PA 19007.
Andrea Freud Loewenstein marks significant
a territory in Loathsome Jews and Engulfing
Women: Metaphors of Projection in the Works of
[=> Wyndham Lewis, Charles Williams and Graham
Hoyt Street: An Autobiography by Mary Helen Greene. In this compelling study that confronts the
Ponce unveils the life of the author “with the eye of interconnectedness of women-hating and Jew-hat-
an anthropologist,” and “the heart of a poet.” It’s the ing, Loewenstein she uses several different scholar-
1940s. Young Mary Helen Ponce and her family live ly disciplines to make her point: literary analysis,
in Pacoima, a Mexican American barrio near Los history and psychoanalysis. Loewenstein is also
Angeles. Hoyt Street speaks to the shame of first- known for her lesbian novels, The Place and The
generation Americans who are treated by their new Worry Girl (The latter is published by Firebrand
society like outcasts but, as well, to the joy Mary Books). $35 cl, 0-8147-5063-X. New York University
41 November 1993
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:14 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Press, 70 Washington Square South, New York NY Nebraska Press, 901 N. 17th Street, Lincoln NE
10012. 68588. BP, IN.
Mayfield Publishing has several new titles: Solidarity and Treason: Resistance and Exile,
Weight Training for Women by Gayle Hutchinson 1933-40 by Lisa Fittko, translated by Roslyn
and Thomas D. Fahey is an inexpensive, practical Theobald in collaboration with the author, is a grip-
guide to developing a healthier, stronger body. ping memoir of Fittko’s years in Europe’s political
Includes over 100 illustrations that clearly show underground. Fittko’s previous memoir about her
proper weight training techniques using both free life as an enemy alien in France before and after the
weights and weight training machines ($12.95 pb, Nazi invasion of 1940, Escape through the Pyrenees
1-55934-048-7). Women, Men, and Power by Hilary was selected as political book of the year in
M. Lips explores the inequality of personal, collec- Germany. Both books document Lisa Fittko’s
tive and institutional power that exists between tremendous contribution to human rights and her
women and men. Rather academic and erudite, but exemplary heroism. $22.95 cl, 0-8101-1129-2.
useful for students of gender studies. Published in Northwestern University Press, 625 Colfax Street,
1991 ($19.95 pb, 0-87484-916). Issues in Feminism: Evanston IL 60208.
An Introduction in Women’s Studies edited by Hyena by Jan Freeman is a collection of poems
Sheila Ruth is a core text for women’s studies stu- that breaks the barriers of learned responses, open-
dents and professors and is used in many curricula ing walls of consciousness. Poet Sharon Doubiago
country-wide. Published in 1990 ($29.95 pb, 0- says that “this is the real stuff... erotic, beautiful,
87484-937-3). Mayfield Publishing Company, 1240 terrible, taboo, terrifying, violent images used to
Villa Street, Mountain View CA 94041. IN. split the skin.” Definitely a worthwhile look into
contemporary lesbian poetry. $10 pb, 1-880834-06-5.
The Cleveland State University Poetry Center,
Department of English, Rhodes Tower, Room 1815,
a Cleveland OH 44115.
is
Harrington Park Press has published three titles
Marguerite Yourcenar: Inventing A Life by that prove informative for Lesbian and Gay Studies,
Josyane Savigneau, translated by Joan E. Howard Women’s Studies or Psychology classes. Lesbians
celebrates one of the most distinguished writers of and Gay Men: Chemical Dependency Treatment
this century. This over 540-page biography is a Issues edited by Dava L. Weinstein collects infor-
“detailed chronicle exploring the life in relation to mation on how homophobia infuences chemical
her literary achievement as it unfolds.” Includes 50 dependency ($14.95 pb, 1-56023-036-3). Gay and
photos. $25 cl, 0-226-73544-3. The University of Lesbian Studies: The Emergence of a Discipline
Chicago Press, 5801 South Ellis Avenue, Chicago IL edited by Henry L. Minton is an anthology that
60637. BP, IN. brings a variety of perspectives to the nature of the
gay and lesbian studies discipline. Important topics
Alicia Borinky’'s Mean Woman, translated with in the book include discussions of the historical and
an introduction by Cola Franzen breaks boundaries theoretical context of gay and lesbian studies, con-
as it transcends the categories of novel, novella, ceptual issues, and political issues ($14.95 pb, 1-
fable, tale and allegory. Saúl Yurkievich of the 56023-021-5). If You Seduce a Straight Person, Can
University of Paris calls Mean Woman a “joyful You Make Them Gay: Issues in Biological
account... written with contagious pleasure and Essentialism Versus Social Construction in Gay
destined as a gift for the reader — contains such a and Lesbian Identities is edited by John P.
mix of rose-color romance and off-colored smut... DeCecco and John P. Elia ($19.95 pb, 1-56023-034-7).
that we find ourselves... immersed by the torrent of HaNrringYton Pa rk1 Pr3ess,9 100 A4lice . S tre etB, BiPngh.am to nO
figures.” $10.95 pb, 0-8032-6112-8. University of
November 1993 42 Volume 16 Number 4
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:14 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsn|
Compiled by Mev Miller number of titles do deal primarily with lesbianism
and lesbian experience. It’s nice to know that, with
Back in 1987, Rose Katz reported on the lesbian the establishment of Queer Studies beginning on
books to be found among the university presses. That many campuses, there is still room for academic
report included eleven titles. Now there are four lesbian political thought. You will notice that sever-
times as many (47) lesbian titles in print from univer- al of these titles are biographies and journals; while
sity presses. Quite a significant increase in five years! it is often difficult to identify historical lesbian fig-
Not only are there a growing number of lesbian ures (definitions of women’s relationships change
titles published by the university presses, but some with each society and period), it’s fun to watch who
are now published as part of a series. Notable discovers whom was a lesbian!
among them are the “Between Men, Between I view the publication of lesbian theory and cul-
Women” series from Columbia University, but ture by academic presses with some caution. On the
more importantly, “The Cutting Edge: Lesbian Life one hand, it’s great to (finally!) be taken seriously
and Literature” series edited by Karla Jay at New and to have some research and scholarship on les-
York University Press. There are, of course, the bian lives, literature, and culture. However, my
many titles that focus on “homosexuality,” “queer,” personal experience of lesbianism has been shaped
and “gay/lesbian” issues. However an increasing and moved forward through our journals, festivals,
ALA
WL
>
Š<
Volume 16 Number 4
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:14 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsbookstores, artistic and cultural ventures, commu-
WOMEN’S LITERATURE
FROM SCANDINAVIA n sti uty di e e s,v e n wt hs a ta n id s cso o m o pn e. l l iM ngy ah bo op ue t i os u rt h la it v, e s in d o l ee ss b nia on t
NO MAN’S LAND: An Anthology of Modern Danish Women’s become overly academic or esoteric and boring at
Literature, Annegret Heitmann (Ed.) An anthology of prose and the expense of accessibility (as sometimes happens
poetry by Danish women writers from Karen Blixen to Suzanne with women’s studies). Academic lesbians need to
vB ar rø ig eg tyer . o f“ D e inn fm lua er nk c e i ss ma e rcu gl et u tr oa l p m roe de ut cin e g s op mla ec e o fin t w heh i c mh o sa t interact with lesbian communities in a meaningful
interesting of contemporary women’s writing.”—P.N. Review. way to remain fresh and responsible and to pro-
211pp., ISBN 1 870041 05 4 paper $21.00 duce scholarship based on what actually happens
THE LÖWENSKÖLD RING, Selma Lagerlöf Tr. by Linda Schenck. in our lives. And I encourage university presses to
By the first woman to receive the Nobel Prize for literature. A continue to publish relevant work.
psychological thriller of jealousy and revenge from beyond the Well, so much for my views on Academe! What
g ir mav me. e“A n s r ea lt yhe r se ex not sic i t g ih vo est s tt ror ay n.” s— laPu tb il ois nhe .r ”s W —ee Sk wly e. d“[ iA sn h] Book Review. follows is a list of lesbian titles from the university
117pp., ISBN 1870041 14 3 paper $19.95 presses. All are non-fiction unless otherwise noted.
THE DISTRICT GOVERNOR’S DAUGHTERS, Camilla Collett Tr. Please also be aware that some may be short dis-
by Kirsten Seaver. “Considered the first Norwegian feminist count (which brings up another point for a possible
novel... timeless in its evocation of real human emotions and future article...)!
the dilemmas they present.”—Publishers Weekly. “A historical
milestone in the development of Norwegian feminism... A
stimulating, thought-provoking work, excellently trans-
lated.” —Belles Lelires. 310pp., ISBN 1 870041 17 8 paper $25.00
NABOTH’S STONE, Sara Lidman Tr. by Joan Tate. An historical
novel of pre-industrial Sweden, mingled with a poetic tale of erotic
obsession. “Powerful, socially conscious work.”—Publishers
Weekly. “Her women characters are extraordinary.”—Co/um-
bia Daily Spectator. 262pp., ISBN 1 870041 12 7 paper $19.95
AN AQUARIUM OF WOMEN, Bjørg Vik Tr. by Janet Garton. “The
9 stories in the provocative collection by contemporary Nor- BASIL BLACKWELL
w ae rg cia hn a V l ik c uill lu ts utr rat ee h so hw a pth ee m wy oth ms eem nb ’se d d le id v ein s o u ar n dpa t r ii- mprison them ‘like Sexual Practice, Textual Theory, Julia Penelope &
fish in an aquarium’... The work’s range of voices is extraor- Susan Wolfe, $19.95 pb, 1557891013.
dinary, and Garton captures them with hardly a false note
and occasional moments of great beauty.”—Publishers Weekly. COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY
T“ iV mei sk . ’ s 10 8 pv po .,i c ISe B N i s 1 8s 7o 00p 4h 1 i 0s 4t i 6c a pt ae pd er $a 1n 7.9d 5 wide-ranging.”-New York Elizabeth Bishop: Biography of a Poet, L.
Goldensohn, $15.95 pb, 0-231-07663-0; $29.95 cl, 0-
NEW NORWEGIAN PLAYS, Janet Garton & Henning Sehmsdorf 231-07662-2.
(Trs. & Eds.) Two of the four plays are by leading contemporary
women playwrights: Bjørg Vik’s Daughlers, which explores the Lure of Knowledge: Lesbian Sexuality and Theory,
generation gap between grandmother, mother, and daughter; and Judith Roof, $14.50 pb, 0-231-07487-5.
Cecilie Løveid’s Seagull Eaters, an experimental radio play about an New Lesbian Criticism: Literary and Cultural
i om f p co lv ae sr s is ah ne dd gy eo nu dn eg r w bo arm ra ien r s t . r y “Ain g f i nto e b see lc eo cm tie o n ,a n a ba lc yt r e ts rs a n i sn la t d edef .”iance Readings, Sally Munt, $15 pb, 0-231-08019-0.
—Scandinavian Studies. 293pp., ISBN 1870041 11 9 paper $25.00 Odd Girls and Twilight Lovers, Lillian Faderman,
NEW SWEDISH PLAYS, Gunilla Anderman (Ed.) Contains, among $29.95 c], 0- 231-07488-3.
o mth eee tr s , a t A tg hn ee t a s u mPl meij ee rl’ s h oSu um se m oe fr tN hi eg ih r is c, h ia l d hst oo or dy to of t t rh yr e te o s ris et se or ls v e w ph ao st CORNELL UNIVERSITY
and present relationships. 298p., ISBN 1870041 19 4 paper $25.00 Lesbian Mothers: Accounts of Gender in American
These Norvik Press titles are available Culture, Ellen Lewin, $13.95 pb, 0-801-48099-X.
at better bookstores or from
Dufour Editions DUKE UNIVERSITY
Chester S 1p -8r 0i 0n -8g 6s 9, - 5 6P 77A 19425-0007 As p 8h 2o 2d 3-e 1l, 2 4 H 2-.D 5,. ( (R fio cb te ior nt ). Spoo, ed.), $12.95 pb, 0-
44
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:14 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
FEMINIST PRESS AT CUNY SAGE
Lesbian Studies: Past and Present, Margaret Social Construction of Lesbianism, Celia Kitzinger,
Cruikshank, $15.95 pb, 0-935312-07-2. $20 pb, 0-8039-8117-1.
Sister Gin, June Arnold, $8.95 pb, 1-55861-010-3, (fiction). Violent Betrayal, C. Benzetti, $25 pb, 0-8039-3889-6.
INDIANA UNIVERSITY PRESS SOUTHERN ILLINOIS UNIVERSITY PRESS
The Amazon and the Page: Natalie Clifford Barney, Shattered Applause:The Lives of Eva Le Gallienne,
Karla Jay, $10.95 pb, 0-253-20476-3. Robert Shanke, $39.95 cl, 0-8093-1820-2.
INSTITUTE OF LESBIAN STUDIES SUNY
Are We There Yet?, Michal Brody, $8.95 pb, 0- Lesbian Philosophies & Cultures, Jeffner Allen,
918040-07-8. $14.95 pb, 0- 7914-0384-X.
Lesbian Ethics, Sarah Hoagland, $14.95 pb, 0-934903-03-4. Lesbian Teachers: An Invisible Presence, Madha
Lesbian Philosophy: Exploration, Jeffner Allen, Khayatt, $16.95 pb, 0-7914-1172-9.
$9.95 pb, 0-93403- 86-7.
TEMPLE UNIVERSITY
NEW YORK UNIVERSITY PRESS Identity Politics: Lesbian Feminism and the Limits of
Adventures of the Mind: The Memoirs of Natalie Community, Shane Phelan, $16.95 pb, 0-87722-902-3.
Clifford Barney, Natalie Barney, $13.95 pb, 0- The Mirror Dance: Identity in a Women’s Community,
8147-1178-2. Susan Kreiger, $9.95 pb, 0-87722-314-9.
Changing Our Minds: Lesbian Feminism, Celia
Kitzenger, $14.95 pb, 0-8147-4646-2. UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA
I Know My Own Heart: Diaries of Anne Lister Elizabeth Bishop, Brett Millier, $28 c], 0-520-07978-7.
1791-1840, Helena Whitbread, $14.95 pb, 0-8147- The Laughter of Aphrodite, Green, $25 cl, 0-520-
9249-9. 07966-3.
Ladies Almanack, Djuna Barnes, $14.95 pb, 0-8147- Lesbian Community, Deborah Wolf, $10.95 pb, 0-
1180-4. 520-04248-4.
Lesbian Texts and Contexts, Karla Jay, $16.50 pb, 0- Sappho: A New Translation, Mary Barnard, $5.95
8147-4177-0. pb, 0-520-01117-1, (poetry).
Lover, Bertha Harris, $14.95 pb, 0-8147-3505-3 (fiction).
No Priest But Love: Journals of Anne Lister from
1824-1826, Helena Whitbread, $14.95 pb, 0-8147-
5077-X.
Paint It Today, H.D., $13.95 pb, 0-8147-3488-X, (fiction).
The Search for a Woman Centered Spirituality,
Annette VanDyke, $13.95 pb, 0-8147-8770-3.
(Sem)Erotics: Theorizing Lesbian Writing,
Elizabeth Meese, $14.95 pb, 0-8147-5470-8.
NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY PRESS
A Stein Reader, Stein/Dydo, eds, $2495 pb, 0-8101-1083-0. UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO
The Lesbian Issue: Essays from Signs, Estelle
OXFORD UNIVERSITY Freedman, $19.95 pb, 0-226-26152-2.
Immodest Acts: The Life of a Lesbian Nun in
Renaissance Italy, J. Brown, $9.95 pb, 0-195-042-255. UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS
Lesbian Psychologies, Boston Lesbian Psychologies
RED DEER COLLEGE PRESS Collective, $14.95 pb, 0-252-01404-9.
Salvage, Daphne Marlatt, $8.95 pb, 0-88995-074-1. On Intimate Terms: The Psychology of Difference
45 November 1993
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:14 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
in Lesbian Relationships, Beverly Burch, $27.50 SOUTHERN ILLINOIS UNIVERSITY PRESS
c], 0-252-01801-X. Rights of Lesbians and Gay Men, Nan Hunter,
$7.95 pb, 0-8093- 1634-X.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
Rumours from the Cauldron, Valerie Miner, $12.95 TEMPLE UNIVERSITY
pb, 0-472-06472-X, (feminist essays, many are les- Lesbian and Gay Marriage: Private Commitments,
bian in focus). Public Ceremonies, Suzanne Sherman, $16.95 pb,
0-87722-975-9.
UNIVERSITY OF NEBRASKA PRESS Lesbian and Gay Writing: An Anthology of Critical
The Biography of Alice B. Toklas, Simon, $12.95 pb, Essays, Mark Lilly, ed., $24.95 pb, 0-87722-706-3.
0-8032-9203- 1. The Right to Privacy: Gays, Lesbians, and the Consti-
tution, Vincent J. Samar, $16.95 pb, 0-87722-952-X.
UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS
Women of the Left Bank: Paris 1900-1940, Shari UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA
Benstock, $14.95 pb, 0-292-79040-6. Epistemology of the Closet, Eve Sedgewick, $14 pb,
0-520- 07874-8.
WESLEYAN UNIVERSITY
Black Holes, Black Stockings, Olga Broumas, $10.95 UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS
pb, 0-819-55141-4. Gay and Lesbian Themes in Latin American
Writing, Foster, $11.95 pb, 0-29277-647-0.
YALE UNIVERSITY PRESS
Beginning with O, Olga Broumas, $9 pb, 0-300- This is not an exhaustive list of titles, I'm sure. If
02111-9. you notice any big misses, please let me know and
Partner & I: Molly Dewson, Feminism, and the I'll happily report them in the next issue of FBN.
New Deal, Susan Ware, $16.95 pb, 0-300-04621-9.
Mev Miller has worn many hats in the book indus-
What follows is a list of GAY/Queer Studies try for the past 10 years. She was the Sales Manager for
titles which might be appropriate in your bookstore. Inland Book Co. for eight years and most recently worked
COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY a shs e t h he a s M war ok rket ei dn g a t M Ban loa og de rr o of to r a n S dp i n Gs ot le dr es n In Tk h. r e aIn d t ah ne d p isast,
Families We Choose: Lesbians, Gay, Kinship, Kath currently working part-time for Amazon Bookstore in
Weston, $13.95 pb, 0-231-07289-9. Minneapolis, and hopes to be working in some capacity
Violence Against Lesbians and Gay Men, with the 6th International Feminist Book Fair. In the near
Comstock, $14.95 pb, 0- 231-073313.
NEW YORK UNIVERSITY PRESS w nii sl tl d bo o o kp sr o m ano dt i o pn us b l ia sn hd e r sm . a Sr hk ee t i in sg n f oo wr al te s b Pi Oan B a on xd 3 f 0e 0m 15i 1- ,
Out of the Closets, Karla Jay, $13.95 pb, 0-8147-4183-5. Minneapolis MN 55403; 612-872-8307. O
v
November 1993 46 Volume 16 Number 4
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:14 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
We did our University Press issue a bit differ- munities based on affection and shared interests.
ently this year. For the first time in eight years we $13.95 pb, 0-8014-8004-3; $34.50 cl, -272-1-5.
are without a University Press columnist. Rather The Ethics of Sexual Difference by Luce
than skip over the Fall university press titles, we Irigaray, translated by Carolyn Burke and Gillian C.
decided to invite the presses to submit annotations Gill. Juxtaposing readings of classic texts with med-
for their Fall titles of interest to feminist bookstores. itations on experiences of love — between fetus and
With everyone’s help and cooperation we were able mother, between heterosexual lovers between
generate more than enough for a column. We were women, and between women and their bodies —
also able to cover the range of books being pub- Irigaray shows how an understanding of such
lished this Fall. The following is a diverse group of experiences points to gender blindness in philoso-
feminist-interest university press books resulting phy. She argues that only when women insist on
from our call. the integrity of their own spaces of embodiment
can love become the basis of revolution in ethics.
CORNELL UNIVERSITY PRESS $13.95 pb, 0-8014-8145-7; $29.95 cl, -2225-6.
Performing Women: Female Characters, Male Cornell University Press, Sage House, PO Box
Playwrights, and the Modern Stage by Gay Gibson 250, Ithaca NY 14851.
Cima. Gay Gibson Cima explores the relationship
between male playwrights and female characters in
the modern theater. In her examination of the pro-
ductions of representative modern plays, she shows
how variations in the performances of female actors DUKE UNIVERSITY PRESS
alter conventional modes of viewing and disrupt The Mind Is Not The Heart: Recollections of a
behavioral codes generated by a patriarchal culture. Woman Physician by Eva J. Salber. Available for
$28.95 cl, 0-8014-2874-2. the first time in paperback, this is the personal and
political story of a white, Jewish, South African
woman who practiced medicine for over fifty years
tAR among the impoverished in South Africa and later
in the United States. Dr. Salber presents not only
What Are Friends For? Feminist Perspectives her own personal journey, but also the story of the
on Personal Relationships and Moral Theory by people on the margins of society among whom she
Marilyn Friedman. Friedman gives a nuanced worked. Includes 34 photographs. $15.95 pb, 0-
appreciation of some of the richness — and the 82231365-0.
complexities — that personal relationships can add Series Q is an ambitious new book series in les-
to our moral lives. Exploring the ways in which bian, gay, and queer studies edited by Michele Aina
friends foster each other’s growth through moral Barale, Jonathan Goldberg, Michael Moon, and Eve
witnessing and the sharing perspectives, she argues Kosofsky Sedgwick. Available Fall/ Winter 1993-94:
that friendship can support the moral transforma- Tendencies, a collection edited by Jonathan
tion of society by promoting nontraditional com- Goldberg; and Homosexual Desire, a reissue of the
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:14 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
class by Guy Hocquenghem, translated by Daniella
Dangoor, with a new introduction by Michael
Moon, preface by Jeffrey Weeks.
Duke University Press, Box 90660, Durham NC
FOCUS ON.. 27708.
GARLAND PUBLISHING
African American Women: A Biographic
Women and Film Dictionary edited by Dorothy C. Salem. It is
arranged alphabetically; the individual entries are
A Sight and Sound Reader cross-referenced, listed in categories and indexed by
EDITED BY PAM COOK AND occupations, organizations, and regions. The indi-
PHILIP BOĐÐD vidual entries are written in essay form, providing
brief and informative data about each woman's
â “This is a delightful collection of essays— childhood, education, career and achievements. Each
@ smart, witty, socially informed and on-target entry is followed by an annotated bibliography that
/ [I]t offers a treat to both the general cites manuscript collections and secondary sources
reader and the student of gender and film in books and periodicals. $75 cl, 0-8240-9782- 3.
theory." —Elayne Rapping Naive American Women: A Bibliographic
“From Marlene to Whoppi, Sally Potter to Jane Compton, Dictionary edited by Gretchen M. Bataille is a pio-
from Queer to Costume drama, Women and Film is stuffed neering volume correcting a long-standing over-
full of fiercely intelligent essays.”—Suzanne Moore sight by providing basic information about note-
$Il 4l 4u .s 9t 5r /a $t 1ed 6. 9 5304 pp w coo nr tt eh my p oN raa rti yv e A A mm ere ir ci ac .a n $ 4 w 0 o cm l,e n 0 - i 8n 2 4 0h -i 5s 2to 6r 7y -6 . and in
Also from this publisher: Sexuality and the Law:
An Encyclopedia of Major Legal Cases edited by
Xuxa Arthur S. Leonard. This timely book is a convenient
reference source for the reader seeking information
The Mega-Marketing about the most significant court decisions on sexuali-
of Gender, Race, ty, sexual identity. $95 cl, 0-8240-3421-X.
and Modernity Garland Publishing Inc., 717 Fifth Ave., New
AMELIA SIMPSON York NY 10022.
Xuxa, Brazil's “Queen of Kids,”
now displays her sexy, irreverent style on a syndicated A
American TV program for children. Will her media-driven
anti-feminist messages on gender, race, and consumer- LOUISIANA STATE UNIVERSITY PRESS
ism captivate Americans as they have millions of viewers Nella Larsen, Novelist of the Harlem
world-wide? Simpson's book warns of the media's power Renaissance: A Woman’s Life Unveiled by
to disenfranchise and marginalize women. Thadious M. Davis. “[This] mesmerizing portrait of
Iliustrated 238 pp Nella Larsen makes marvelous sense of an impor-
$34.95/$14.95 tant African-American writer of the 1920s. Her
analysis draws on recent scholarship while retain-
ing the grandeur of classical biography. Davis gets
Order Toll-Free CA, the aesthetics and social history just right. This
1-800-447-1656 UNIVER Y PRESS b sto uo dk y r oep f r e Ase mn et rs ic a a n s t wun omni en ng wac rh itie ev rse .m ” e n —t Nin e l lt h Ie rvin
PHILADELPHIA, Painter, Princeton University $34.95 cl, 0-8071-1866-4.
November 1993 48 Volume 16 Number 4
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:14 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Self and Community in the Fiction of and unerring empathy, they add further distinction
Elizabeth Spencer by Terry Roberts. In this com- to a remarkable poetic career. $15.95 cl, 0-8071-
prehensive introduction to the works of a writer 1836-2; $8.95 pb, 0-8071-1837-0.
both southern and cosmopolitan, Terry Roberts The Governor of Desire, poems by Elizabeth
demonstrates clearly that throughout a career of Seydel Morgan. In her second collection of verse,
thirty-five years Mississippi native Spencer has sus- Morgan examines the world through the lens of our
tained a unique, profound artistic vision based on emotions, a perspective from which we see how
the idea of community, examining ever more close- everything connects — nature, politics, passion, ter-
ly its texture and implication, as her writing tech- ror, anger, grief. Tough yet tender, haunting yet
nique has grown increasingly sophisticated. $29.95 lyrical, they are remarkable fusions — like gov-
cl, 0-8071-1879-6. erned desire — of form and content, and they illu-
minate the vicissitudes of our common experience.
$15.95 cl, 0-8071-1811-7; $8.95 pb, 0-8071-1812-5.
l Louisiana State University Press, PO Box 25053,
Katherine Mansfield: In from the Margin edit- Baton Rouge LA 70894-5053. Distributed by Baker
ed by Roger Robinson. This rich collection of twelve & Taylor, Koen Book Distributors, and Ingram
biographical and interpretive essays, written by Book Company. For information about the LSU
scholars from three continents, does much to bring Press Agency Plan, contact Claudette Price.
Mansfield the sort of critical attention she has long
deserved. They show that far from being minor or
imitative, as some have contended, Mansfield
helped transform the English short story, bringing èl
to the form a new fluidity and intensity. $27, 0- ILR PRESS/CORNELL UNIVERSITY
8071-1865-6. Women and Unions: Forging a Partnership
The Vigil: A Poem in Four Voices by Margaret edited by Dorothy Sue Cobble. More than forty
Gibson. Extending the scope of poetry beyond its scholars and activists examine the relationship
accustomed boundaries, Gibson adroitly inter- emerging between organized labor and women, the
weaves the voices of four women, mothers and new proletariat worldwide. Contributors discuss
daughters of three generations, who during the ways to close the wage gap. They explore the oppor-
course of a single day reveal the depths of the lega- tunities and dangers of home work, temporary and
cy of alcoholism in their family. In the end, we see part-time work. They consider new directions in
them poised, however precariously, on the thresh- organizing and the exciting implications of women
olds of trust, candor, forgiveness, and love. $19.95 leading unions. This is a milestone book. $19.95 pb,
c], 0-8071-1867- 2; $9.95 pb, 0-8071-1868-0. 0-87546-301-0; $52 cl, 0-87546-300-2, 464 pp.
Everything Winged Must Be Dreaming, poems Gender and Racial Inequality at Work: The
by Susan Ludvigson. These poems turn in large Sources and Consequences of Employment
measure, as the title suggests, on images of flight Segregation by Donald Tomaskovic-Devey.
and wings, dreams and air, with the major recur- Tomaskovic-Devey explores the sources, conse-
ring theme — love, sexual love, as it relates to the quences, and implications of segregation in the
life of the spirit, and also to death — conveyed in workplace. He analyzes the discrimination in pay
an assortment of ways. Of comprehensive reach and other rewards against jobs held primarily by
49 November 1993
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:14 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
l|
women and people of color. He asks why particu- play in using military force, both as policymakers
lar groups of people do particular jobs and what and as implementers. $38 c], 1-55587-329-4.
relationship training programs, affirmative action Modernizing Women: Gender and Social
initiatives, and comparable worth lawsuits have to Change in the Middle East by Valentine M.
that process. $16.95 pb, 0-87546-305-3; $38 cl, 0- Moghadam. “One of the best studies of women and
87546-304-5. social change in the Middle East ever to be pub-
An Introduction to the Law of Employment lished....A superb reference for scholars and stu-
Discrimination by Michael Evan Gold. Part of the dents interested in gender, the Middle East, and
series of accessible, highly-focused ILR Bulletins, development and social change.” — C/ıoice. $40 cl,
this book summarizes federal laws that prohibit 1-55587-346-4; $17.95 pb, 1-55587-354-5.
employment discrimination on the basis of race, Women in Political Theory: From Misogyny to
color, religion, sex, national origin, age, and disabili- Contemporary Feminism, 2nd edition by Diana H.
ty. As an introduction for those unfamiliar with the Coole. From reviews of the first edition: “Excellent
laws and as a refresher for those with limited knowl- and exhaustive thinking about what [traditional
edge, this bulletin presents complex legislation in political theory] is doing to women.” — American
lucid, understandable terms. $8.95, 0-87546-311-8. Political Science Review. “Lucid and well- written...”
ILR Press, School of Industrial and Labor — Times Higher Education Supplement. $18.95 pb, 1-
Relations, Ithaca NY 14853-3901, 607-255-3061, FAX 55587-457-6.
607-255-2755. Distributed by Inland, Ingram at Baladi Women of Cairo: Playing with an Egg
standard discounts, or directly from publisher at and a Stone by Evelyn A. Early. Based on more than
25%. In Canada, distributed exclusively by three years of work among traditional urban
Scholarly Book Services, 77 Mowat Ave., Suite 403, Egyptian women, Early’s work reveals important cul-
Toronto ONT M6K 3E3, 416-533-5490. We invite tural themes by minimizing the reflective gaze of the
feminist bookstores to join our agency plan which researcher and allowing spontaneous discourse and
requires that eight or more ILR Press titles be main- narrative recountings to “catch” culture in action.
tained in stock. Interested bookwomen should con- $38.50 c], 1-55587-277- 8; $17.95 pb, 1-55587-268-9.
tact Andrea Clardy. 2 Gendered States: Feminist (Re)Visions of
International Relations Theory edited by V. Spike
A Peterson. “A welcome introduction to a new and
l growing field in international relations scholar-
LYNN RIENNER PUBLISHERS ship.” — Harvard International Review. Taking seri-
Educated and Ignorant: Ultraorthodox Jewish ously the question “What difference does gender
Women and Their World by Tamar El-Or. make?” the authors illuminate new directions in IR
“Fascinating throughout... a must for courses on by highlighting the role of gender in constructing
women in the Middle East.” — Mina D. Caulfield. and maintaining the sovereign state system and its
$39.95 c], 1- 55587-393-6; $17.95 pb, 1-55587-396-0. related notions of security, autonomy and identity.
Women and the Use of Military Force edited $35 c], 1-55587-298-0; $16.95 pb, 1-55587-328-6.
by Ruth H. Howes and Michael R. Stevenson. The Lynne Reiner Publishers, 1800 30th St. Suite
authors examine theoretical approaches, particular- 314, Boulder CO 80301. Standard bookstore dis-
ly feminist approaches, to women’s use of physical counts are 20%; please call for information on dis-
force and present data on the role women actually counts and agency plans.
November 1993 50 Volume 16 Number 4
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:14 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
MA N PuC bH lE icS T BE oR d i eU sN /PIV rE ivR aS tI eT Y S t aP tR esE :S S New Views on as ner dv ic Ae fs r, i cs ae ,l f A-e sm iap , l o ay nm d e n Lt a t ia nn d A mw ea rg ie c- ae .m $p 1l 9o .y 9m 5 e n pbt, , 0-
Women and Representation edited by Jane Brettle 7190-4230-5.
and Sally Rice. Public Bodies/Private States com- Manchester University Press, distributed by St.
bines visual imagery from women artists and the Martin’s Press, Scholarly and Reference Division, 257
work of leading women theorists in a multi-discipli- Park Avenue South 18th Floor, New York NY 10010.
nary examination of the body. The book is struc-
tured around the four key themes affecting women MAYFIELD PUBLISHING COMPANY
now and in the past: health and reproduction; archi- Women in American Society by Virginia
tecture and urban space; violence, marriage and the Sapiro. In the third edition of this best-selling book,
law; and religion. Each of these themes is investigat- Virginia Sapiro provides comprehensive synthesis
ed visually and textually and expands the bound- and critique of current feminist theory with social
aries of contemporary debate in these areas. This science scholarship and research. In order for the
collaboration combines photography and mixed reader to gain a richer understanding of women in
media, with the disciplines of medicine, architec- American society, the book offers an interdiscipli-
ture, law, social science, and theology to examine nary approach. Research findings and insights from
how these institutions affect our understanding and the fields of economics, history, law and many
experience of the world mediated through our bod- more are interwoven throughout the text. Women’s
ies in both the public and private spheres. $90 cl, 0- issues are discussed at length — STDs, PMS,
7190-4120-1; $24.95 pb, 0-7190-4121-X. women in the military, and poverty. $29.95, 1-
55934-225-0.
Sex and Gender: An Introduction by Hilary
l Lips. This up-to-date introduction to the sex and
gender issue features three main parts: theories and
Sex Discrimination in the Labour Market: The research, similarities and differences between men
Case for Comparable Worth edited by Richard
Perlman and Maureen Pike. This book examines the “Powerful... A wonderful book that brings
interaction between sex discrimination in the labor hope for the future by telling the stories of
market and the role of comparable worth in attack- the women who appear on its pages.”
ing one of its important consequences, lower pay Norma McCorv e Fry om ( J tha e n Fe o r eR woo re d of Roe vs. Wade),
for women. It argues that future progress in elimi-
nating such inequalities can only be made by the Our Choices
application and extension of legislation which
embodies the principle of comparable worth or Women’s Personal Decisions
equal pay for work of equal value. $59.95 cl, 0- About Abortion
7190-3336-5.
Sumi Hoshiko
Male Bias in the Development Process: Second
Edition edited by Diane Elson. “The most signifi- Relationships, sex, pregnancy, and abortion are among
c man ent t b io no k t ht eo ph aa sv te da ep cp ae da er .”e d — i n J og uen rnd ae lr oa fn d D ed ve ev loel po mp- ent s it xth eee n wto omp ei nc s i n d ti hs isc u cs ols lee cd ti o nw oi ft h or a l e n hig sta org iei sn .g frankness by
pbSt rau c okd ce ie se ss d . i itU si op n md ,a at re t kd h e i dsw i b bt o yh o k a m a an r lee g w u be s iac s h t a hp —at t e r i t l lh -f e fo or u d net v dh e ei l ds o p p am nap e dner t- $2 $9 1. 9 4 15 . 99 9 5h 3 . a sr o Ad f. v t a.I iS laIB S bN B le: N :1 n - o15 w-6 50 .6 2 04 12- 933 7-3 0 3 2 p- 5 p3 -. .8.
unjustified asymmetries that operate in favor of Available at better bookstores or directly by contacting
men and against women. The contributors include The Haworth Press, Inc.
some of the leading writers in the gender and 10 Alice Street, Binghamton NY 13904-1580
development field. The cases considered cover both Call Toll Free: 1-800-342-9678
urban and rural settings, agriculture, industry and Fax Your Order: 1-607-722-6362
51 November 1993
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:14 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsand women, and sex and gender in social relation- sex and gender systems as a means of critiquing
ships. Current and comprehensive, this book recog- thinking that privileges standard male/female gen-
nizes and details how science is neither unbiased der distinctions. The essays start in the Byzantine
nor value-free. While making her own feminist Empire and moving eclectically forward, with a
standpoint clear, Lips treats other points of view special focus on the seventeenth through nineteenth
with objectivity and clear analysis. centuries. The anthropological studies include the
Multiculturalism and ethnic/racial issues are also Native American berdache, the Indian Hijras caste,
covered. $30.95 pb, 1-55934-090-8. hermaphrodites in Melanesia, third genders in
Mayfield Publishing Company, 1280 Villa St., Indonesia and the Balkans, and transsexuals in
Mountain View CA 94040. America. $24.95 cl, 0-942299-81-7. Distributed for
Zone Books.
The MIT Press, 55 Hayward Street, Cambridge MA
THE MIT PRESS ` l 02142-1399. Distributed by Baker & Taylor, Ingram.
The Invention of Pornography: Obscenity and MODERN LANGUAGE ASSOCIATION
the Origins of Modernity, 1500-1800 edited by (MLA)
Lynn Hunt. In America today the intense and con- Texts and Translations Series
troversial debate over the censorship of pornogra- Letters of Mistress Henley Published by Her
phy continues to call into question the values of a Friend by Isabelle de Charriere, translated by Philip
modern, democratic culture. This ground-breaking Stewart and Jean Vache, introduction, notes and
collection of ten critical essays traces the history bibliography by Joan Hinde Stewart and Philip
and various uses of pornography in early modern Stewart. Written in French in 1784, Letters of
Europe, offering the historical perspective crucial to Mistress Henley was composed in response to the
understanding current issues of artistic censorship. misogynist novel The Sentimental Husband.
$26.95 c1, 0-942299-68-X. Distributed for Zone Charriere presents letters penned by a woman who
Books. has chosen a decent and affectionate man as her
Remote Control: Power, Cultures, and the husband only to discover that she cannot bear shar-
World of Appearances by Barbara Kruger. Barbara ing his life. Popular and controversial when origi-
Kruger is an artist whose pictures and words nally published, the book was called by one critic
engage issues of power, sex, money, difference and “literarily excellent” but “morally dangerous.”
death. Her work has appeared throughout $3.95 pb, 0-87352-776-3, Jan. 1994.
America, Europe, and Japan in galleries, newspa- fA
pers, magazines, and museums and on billboards, l
matchbooks, TV programs, t-shirts, postcards, and l
shopping bags. She has written about television, Letters from a Peruvian Woman by Francoise
film, and cultures for Artforum, Esquire, the New de Graffigny, translated by David Kornacker, intro-
York Times, and the Village Voice. Her witty, caustic duction by Joan DeJean and Nancy K. Miller.
essays address artifacts of our culture from the Kidnapped by Spaniards and taken by the French
Home Shopping Club to the New York Film to Europe, the Inca princess Zilia describes her trau-
Festival and subject them to a bright, stinging matic experiences in letters to the prince she was to
analysis. $19.95 cl, 0-262-11177-2. have married in Peru. Presented here in the first
Third Sex, Third Gender: Beyond Sexual English translation in almost two hundred years,
Dimorphism in Culture and History edited by Graffigny’s novel offers a bold critique of eigh-
Gilbert Herdt. In the 1990s, questions of sex roles teenth-century French society and delivers one of
and individual identity have taken a central posi- the most vehement feminist protests in the litera-
tion in intellectual debates. These eleven essays ture of that era. $5.95 pb, 0-87352-778-X, Jan. 1994.
examine the place of sexual dimorphism in culture Modern Language Association of America, 10
and history, and propose the study of alternative Astor Place, New York NY 10003.
52
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:14 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
mm
NORTHEASTERN UNIVERSITY PRESS 1867) was one of America’s first woman writers,
From Jo March's Attic: Stories of Intrigue and and in her time was also one of the nation’s most
Suspense by Louisa May Alcott; Madeleine Stern popular authors, publishing nearly 100 tales and six
and Daniel Shealy, editors. Louisa May Alcott, like novels. Her autobiography and the selections from
her beloved character Jo March, supported herself her journals collected here offer a revealing entree
and her family by writing anonymous sensation into the life and times of one of the most important
stories for popular magazines. Nine of Alcott’s pot- and visible women in ante-bellum America. $8.95
boilers appear in this volume for the first time. pb, 0-934909-36-9. Distributed for the Massachusetts
Originally published between 1868 and 1870 in Historical Society.
Frank Leslie's Lady's Magazine, they were tailored to Northeastern University Press, Marketing
conform to the perceived interests of women read- Department, 360 Huntington Avenue 272HN,
ers of the 1860s. $21.95 cl, 1-55553-177-6. Boston MA 02115.
ÉRI OBERLIN COLLEGE PRESS
Tren Moss Burning (Poems) by Marianne Boruch, #2
Rediscovering the Muses: Women’s Musical in the Field Editions Poetry Series. This is a new
Tradition edited by Kimberly Marshall. Women’s volume by one of America’s best younger poets.
contributions to music-making have been largely $19.95 cl, 0-932440-64-9.
unacknowledged by music historians. This pioneer- But What: Selected Poems by Judith Herzberg,
ing collection of essays restores to history the sig- translated by Shirley Kaufman, introduction by
nificant role of women musicians. Musicologists, Henk Romijn Meijer. Because Judith Herzberg,
ethnographers, classicists, and historians describe Dutch poet, playwright and screenwriter, makes
the lost musical traditions from ancient Israel and her home part of the year in Amsterdam and part of
Egypt, the Australian Aborigines, Central Javanese the year in Tel Aviv, it has been possible for her to
wayang, Byzantium, and Europe to the seventeenth collaborate directly with the Jerusalem-based
century. $35 cl, 1-55553-173-3. American poet Shirley Kaufman on this impressive
Efronia: An Armenian Love Story by Stina selection from her poetry. Witness to history and
Katchadourian, based on a memoir by Efronia accurate recorder of human relationships, this poet
Katchadourian; foreword by Marilyn Yalom. writes with extraordinary compassion and superb
Efronia Katchadourian’s memoir recounts her control. $9 pb, 0-932440-23-1; $15 cl, 0-932440-24- X.
struggles as a young Christian Armenian in the pre-
World War I Ottoman empire. Central to her story
is her tragic relationship with Ramzi, a Persian
Moslem. The memoir is interwoven with the narra- Poem Without a Hero by Anna Akhmatova,
tive of Efronia’s daughter-in-law, Stina. In the translated by Lenore Mayhew and William
female literary tradition of women writing the McNaughton. This collection comes just in time for
biographies of their mothers, two clear voices this great poet's centennial and just when you may
emerge and intersect. $19.95 cl, 1-55553-172-5. have been thinking that no one could do justice to
The Power of Her Sympathy: The Autobiography her candor, directness and simplicity. The versions
and Journals of Catharine Maria Sedgwick, edited by Mayhew and McNaughton, grounded firmly
by Mary Kelley. Catharine Maria Sedgwick (1789- and authoritatively in the modernist free-verse tra-
November 1993
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:14 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
dition of Williams, H.D., and Pound, prove ideal
for conveying the subtle beauties and daring associ-
ations of a poet whose long life proved poetry’s
capacity for survival and subversive resistance to Contraception: The Dalkon Shield Case,
tyranny. $9.95 pb, 0-932440-50-9-X; $17.95 cl, 0- Sexuality, and Women’s Autonomy by Nicole J.
932440-51-7-X. Grant. In this brutal indictment of the birth control
Oberlin College Press, Rice Hall, 10 North industry, Nicole J. Grant documents the history of
Professor St., Oberlin OH 44074-1095. Distributed the Dalkon Shield case and places the controversy
by Springs Church. within a larger historical and social context, exam-
ining the ways in which social conditions affect
OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY PRESS women’s choices about contraception. “A tour de
Framing Anna Karenina: Tolstoy, the Woman force.” — Women’s Review of Books. $15.95 pb, 0-
Question, and the Victorian Novel by Amy 8142-0615-8.
Mandelker. Amy Mandelker’s feminist reinterpre- Ohio State University Press, 180 Pressey Hall,
tation of Tolstoy's Arna Karenina challenges pre- 1070 Carmack Road, Columbus OH 43210-1002.
av nai dl i n Ag n nc ar i t Kic aa rl e n n inot ai o an ss ao f c l aT so sl is ct o ry e a la is s t a n m ovi es lo .g y Inn si tst ead, l<
she reads Tolstoy as a radical feminist at the van- l
guard of Russia's “woman question” debates, and
the book itself as a modernist novel that breaks tra- OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY PRESS
dition. $39.50 cl, 0-8142-0613-1, Jan. 1994. A Homesteader’s Portfolio by Alice Day Pratt,
The Complete Works of Aphra Behn — introduction by Molly Gloss (author of The Jump-Off
Volume III: Short Fiction; Volume IV: Seneca Creek). In 1911 Alice Day Pratt, a self-described “old
Unmask’d and Other Prose Translations edited by maid” school teacher, filed claim to 160 acres of
Janet Todd. This extraordinary collection, edited by land in the high desert country of Oregon. This
noted British feminist scholar Janet Todd, brings powerful memoir presents a rare, extraordinarily
together for the first time the complete works of the complete record of the life of a single woman home-
first Englishwoman to earn her living by writing. steader in the dry-land West. A Homesteader’s
Volume III, $69.50 cl, 0-8142-0616-6, Jan. 1994; Portfolio was first published in 1922 by The
Volume IV, $69.50 cl, 0-8142-0627-1, available now. MacMillan Company. $13.95 pb, 0-87071-517-8;
$24.95 cl, 0-87071-516-X.
A Oregon State University Press, Waldo Hall 101,
èl Corvallis OR 97331-6407. Distributed by Pacific
New in paperback! The Voices of Toni Pipeline and Baker & Taylor.
Morrison by Barbara Hill Rigney. This study is the
first comprehensive examination of Toni Morrison’s PAUL & COMPANY
work to be informed by both feminist and African- A Woman's Place by Marian Sawer and Marian
American critical theory. Like Morrison’s novels, Simms. The second edition of this ground-breaking
Barbara Hill Rigney’s analysis transcends tradition- work updates and expands the story of the other
al interpretations, maps new territory for postmod- half of Australian politics. It examines the defini-
ern fictions, and cultivates a common ground for a tions of politics which have rendered women and
November 1993 Volume 16 Number 4
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:14 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
women’s concerns invisible and looks at the role
played by women in all aspects of the political
pro cTeshs. e A llCenl a &s s iUnngwi n ,G $a2z2.e9:5 pSbe, x 1u-8a6l3i7t3y-1,6 9 -5C. l al s Ns and ORTHEASTERN
Surveillance by Lynette Finch. The author shows | i42%
that her notion of sexuality holds the key to the
appearance of two distinct working classes and the | ! FROM JO MARCH’S ATTIC
“disappearance” of one. Further, she argues that it | Stories of Intrigue and Suspense
was the sexuality of women that occupied the cen- | * Louisa May Alcott
tral stage in the classing process. Allen & Unwin, Edited by Madeleine Stern and Daniel Shealy
$19.95 pb, 1-86 3. 7 3.- 4 3. 7 -f6 . o, aa rNcAh , A slcuopttp,o ri t eh e rebresloevlie d a nehı an earn amı
Emma Goldman: Sexuality and the Impurity of li by writing atonyimous.sensation.stories y
t th he e S t ia dte e ab sy oB fon n Eie m H maa ala n d G. o T lh de m b ao nok af so c u ts hes e yon relate to the N Ae dNi f uo nr c o vp eo rp eu dl a r p o m tba og ila ez rin s e s c. o nT th aie n en di n ie n r te hce isn t vly olume
cen t bra il rit ty o f se 1x u a hli ety a on od ,r e p hro d u fc t i 1on . T Lh Ees e i ad dea ys s2 Mwe ar ge o zr ii ngi en a NNlNNal yNn p u b wlis eh re ed i tn iF lora rn ek L e ts oli e 's
h l r h d F L ' a d a d conform
— birth control, voluntary motherhood, OMOSSXGA PAA to the perceived tastes of women readers
gr ii og nh t s a, n da n d th et h Se t aa tg e g r —es s i av re e n reat leu vr ae n to f t o m ta hr er i a cg ue r, r er ne tli - N f eA7| mN AN o i-f $t 2h 1e .9 51860s.
nist debates on sexuality’s pleasures, rather than its
dangers, and as such, equates women’s freedom EFRONIA
with sexual freedom. Black Rose Books, $19.95 pb, 1- H An Armenian Love Story
895431-64-6; $38.95 cl, 1-895431-65-4. v ated acada
Nineteenth Century: Stories by Women edited Z IEUS
by Glennis Stephenson. For this anthology the edi- N N NA oC fe n t lor val e t ao n d E f sr uo rn vi ia v a lK a at sc h aa d o Cu hr ri ia sn t' is a n m Aem rmoi er nian
t No or r t hbr i Ang ms e rt io cg anet h wer r i ts et ro sr , i e bs y b y su cb ho t h es t aB br li it si hsh ed a ln ud m is -r s SGN i tn r a gO ict t o rm ela an ti o T nu shrk ipe y w ii ts h h Rer a m c zo im , p al i c Pa et re sd i a nand
n w Dlia r utr ii t t n e el Ds bre - a a k F rs l .n o S tr oh ia B cw e l r Sl Vne t oy e a oe, d ll w v nG ar cia n ees i d k t w e be l t yrl h , s Pe a r n iAs e ld lfu s r s c HoK ,h - aa A t e $ m a e1 e sC 6 r ah i . nc 9o t a dp 5nh i n e , A p l eba iA ncn ,ed n g 1b l -y o 5 - 5Z I 1n 1d 1ia -n 00 0Z -8. R Ne Dv AL N N t $w EM I mn 1fro 9e ri s m .ot 9tl i ne h 5onm i e ig a r ' s f ow t i e s th dmi ht e a uh ia n l g be t h iw eo trlh g ei w rt ro e -oam r ip v na h er - nis ly e ah s w e w t ,o r if tfa She d tl il it t nh t i ahoi en .n i er l n oo mf av r oe r tw a ha to et im vr s ees , ne v ot fe hn eteen.
o m e s i e G g u E l l N v VARANN c l
Malos. A general study of male violence against A
women in the home, this book fills the gap betw Geean. WZAoLm eRnE'sD IMSCuOsVicEalR INTrGa d iTtHioEn s MUSES
aenxdi s atciandegm ich asntuddbieos o okfs t hfeo ris s uwe. o mIt ednes c riinbe s v tihoelent situations Edited by Kimberly Marshall
scale and history of the problem of domestic vio- hW aveo m bee enn ' ls a r gc elo yn ut nr aci kb nu ot wi leo dn ges d bt yo m m usiu csic-making
lence, considers its causes and consequences, and historians. This pioneering collection of
assesses the role of public policy and the welfare essays restores to history the significant role
s 1e -r 8v 7i 3c 7e 9s 7. - 0Il 6l -u 0s ;t r $a 4te 5d . c ]N , e 1w - 8 7C 3l 7ar 9i 7o -n 0 7 -P 9r .ess, $18.95 pb, o wpf h o e m rw eso , n m ' sc e l n a ls o s sim tc i u s ms ti s uc ,i sa in a cn as l. d tM h ru i as ds ti ioc to r iol io a nng si s s t fds r, e o s mce rt ih b an e o wgr ida- e
< range of countries and eras.
l $35.00 cloth
l
Pioneering Women: Short Stories by Canadian NORTHEASTERN UNIVERSITY PRESS
Women, edited by Sandra Campbell and Lorraine 360 Huntington Avenue, 272 HN
McMullen. These writers reached English and Boston, MA 02115
American audiences of the nineteenth century
through the columns of prestigious and popular
November 1993
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:14 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsanyi ONI
American magazines and British periodicals, as
well as the early Canadian periodicals. The explo-
ration in women’s writing of social issues like femi-
nism, prohibition and labor activism were concerns
which were already evident at the time. University
of Ottawa Press, $23 pb, 0-7766-0367-1. Russian language, the postmodernist Bella
Distributed by Paul and Company, Publishers Akhmadulina. Sonia Ketchian analyzes
Consortium, Inc., c/o PCS Data Processing, Inc., Akhmadulina’s poetry through an overview of her
360 West 31 Street, New York NY 10001. poetic voice and of the early poetry followed by an
investigation of the thematic grouping of poems in
PENN STATE PRESS her most significant collection to date, the remark-
Masquerade and Gender: Disguise and Female able Secret. $32.50 cl, 0-271-00916-0.
Identity in Eighteenth-Century Fictions by Penn State Press, Suite C Barbara Building, 820
Women by Catherine Craft- Fairchild. A provoca- North University Drive, The Pennsylvania State
tive study of perceptions of women in eighteenth- University, University Park PA 16802. Distributed
century fiction. Informed by the ideas of feminist by Baker & Taylor and Ingram.
t Mh ae ro yr i s Ats n, n i n Dc olu and ein , g a nL du c e K a jI ar i g Sa ir lvay er, m J anu ,li a C rK ar fi ts -teva, L
F Ma air rc yh il Dd a v a yr sg , u e Es l i zt ah a Ht, a y win o o f di ,c t Eio ln izs a b eb ty h A Inp ch hr ba a lB d,ehn, l
and Frances Burney, masquerade represented both OHIO UNIVERSITY PRESS/SWALLOW
a capitulation to patriarchy and a defiance of the PRESS
dominant norms for female behavior. $14.95 pb, 0- Shadows in My Hands: A Southwestern
271-00919-5; $30 c1, 0-271-00918-7. Odyssey by Jane Candia Coleman. This new collec-
The Flour War: Gender, Class, and tion has something for everyone — nature, history, a
Community in LateAncien Regime French Society poetic evocation of the land, and through it all, a
by Cynthia A. Bouton. A study of the greatest wave woman's gradual awakening to possibilities, to her
of popular disturbance in France in the decades own strength. It is a new and ancient story of a per-
before the Revolution. Bouton identifies communi- sonal journey of transformation. $23 cl, 0-8040-0972-4.
ties of participants and victims in the Flour War, Ohio University Press, 11030 S. Langley Ave.,
analyzing them according to class, occupation, gen- Chicago IL 60628. Distributed by Ingram, Pacific
der and location and asks why women were heavi- Pipeline, Baker & Taylor, and others.
ly represented in the riots, often assuming crucial
roles as instigators and leaders. $18.95 pb, 0-271- RUTGERS UNIVERSITY PRESS
01055-X; $45 cl, 0-271-01053-3. Frauen: German Women Recall the Third
Women and Spirituality: Voices of Protest and Reich by Alison Owings. “Frauen goes further than
Promise by Ursula King. This expanded edition of a any book I know toward addressing the eternal
study of feminist spirituality and theology world- question of the private citizen’s individual respon-
wide accords more attention to women’s voices from sibility within a fascist regime... This book will be
the third world and to the urgent ethical and envi- mined by contemporary and future scholars,
ronmental concerns being addressed by women. It indeed, by all who puzzle over the moral failures of
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:14 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
‘human nature.” — Susan Brownmiller. What were family relationships, many of the stories in this first
the women of Germany doing during the Third collection handle difficult subjects. The title story
Reich? What were they thinking? And what do they deals with a character whose vibrant girlhood is
have to say a half century later? In Frauen we hear gradually snuffed out by the twisting of her mind.
their voices — most for the first time. Alison “Major Six Pockets,” which will be included in the
Owings interviewed and here records the words of 1993 edition of New Stories from the South, tells the
twenty-nine German women who were there. story of two brothers burned in a playhouse fire.
$24.95 cl, 0-8135-1992-6. $22.50 cl, 0-87074-351-1; $10.95 pb, 0- 87074-359-7.
Backtalk: Women Writers Speak Out, inter- 4
views by Donna Perry. This book contains fifteen l
in-depth interviews with important contemporary èl
women writers from the United States, England, The 23rd Dream: A Novel by Kathlyn Witsitt
Ireland, and the Caribbean. The authors, who come Egbert. In a life- affirming treatment of a melan-
from different racial, ethnic, and class backgrounds choly subject, this first novel gently draws the read-
and sexual orientations, are all committed to telling er in to walk in the valley of the shadow of death
the stories of people, especially women, who have with Adam Stauffer and his family. “This is a subtle
been silenced in the past. Perry interviews writers and remarkable first novel.” — George Garrett.
of fiction, nonfiction, and poetry: Paula Gunn Allen, “This book treats with great honesty and authority
Gloria Anzald_a, Pat Barker, Mary Beckett, Rosario the way such a disease prepares both the victims
Ferr_, Vivian Gornick, Jamaica Kincaid, Barbara and the survivors for death.” — Jolm Yount. $10.95
Kingsolver, Maxine Hong Kingston, Valerie Miner, pb, 0-87074-360-0; $22.50 cl, 0-87074-352-X .
Gloria Naylor, Eilis Ni Dhuibhne, Joan Riley, Alligator Dance: Stories by Janet Peery. These
Joanna Russ, and Leslie Marmon Silko. 15 b&w richly textured stories tell us that we're all strangers
illus. $24.95 cl, 0-8135-1991-8. in a strange land, stunned by beauty and injustice,
Outside the Wall: A Puerto Rican Woman’s
Struggle by Felix M. Padilla and Lourdes Santiago.
Lourdes Santiago is married to a man who is serv- NOTHER
ing a seventy-year prison term for allegedly killing
a rival gang member. For more than half of her life,
Lourdes has devoted her energy to aiding her hus-
band and fighting for prison reform. Her endless
battles on behalf of her husband, other prisoners’
families, and her neighborhood have transformed
Lourdes. Now we hear Lourdes Santiago’s story in KATHRYN ALLEN RABUZZI
her own voice, thanks to Felix Padilla who inter- “A lovely book. . . . for anyone wishing to
viewed her over the course of two years and sensi- reexamine and reclaim birth’s
tively wove her words together into this book. It is potential for sacredness.”
an unparalleled look at the effects of the penal sys- —Robbie Davis Floyd, author of
tem on hundreds of thousands of men and women Birth as an American Rite of Passage
in prison and on their families outside the wall.
$14.9 R5 u tp gb e, r s0 - U81 n3 i5 v- e1 r9 s8 it7 y-X . Press, 109 Church Street, and tB hy e Fth eme i nau inth e o r a n do f M T oh te h e rS sa ec lr fe .d
New Brunswick NJ 08901. Available December
0-253-20827-0 paper $14.95
SOUTHERN METHODIST UNIVERSITY
PRESS
My Sister Disappears: Stories and a Novella by
Lee Merrill Byrd. Centering on domestic issues and
57 November 1993
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:14 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsbrutality and grace. “Wonderfully engaging, ver- ground in showing the varied and complex ways in
bally interesting, thoughtful and earnest in its con- which ideas about sexuality, gender, and the body
cern with moral issues, this is a wonderful book!” have shaped and been shaped by Russian literature,
— Rosellen Brown. “Here are what stories are sup- history, art, and philosophy from the medieval
posed to be....Alligator Dance will be compared to period to the present day. $45, 0-8047-2113-0.
the first collections of Willa Cather and Jayne Anne
P Xh ;$i 2ll 2ip .5s 0.” — B 0-o 8b S 7h 4-a 3co 5c 3h -8is .$ S1 o0 u.9 t5 rp nb , 0 e- t8 h70 o7 d4 is- t366- |4
c 1, 7 0 . h e M
University Press, Box 415, Dallas TX 75275. ml
Distributed by Texas A & M University Press, A Home Divided: Women and Income in the
Drawer C, College Station TX 77843. Third World, edited by Daisy Dwyer and Judith
Bruce. A challenge to economic theories that view
STANFORD UNIVERSITY PRESS the household as a harmonious unit with a single
Sexuality and the Body in Russian Culture, decision-maker, this book shows that in the Third
edited by Jane Costlow, Stephanie Sandler and World the household is an arena of conflict marked
Judith Vowles. These twelve essays break new by inequality and negotiation over income and
Rutgers
109 Church Street
New Brunswick, NJ 08901
58
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:14 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
expenditures. $14.95 pb, 0-8047-2213- 7; $45 c|, 0-
8047-1485-1. Mean Woman (Mina Cruel) by Alicia Borinsky,
California's Daughter: Gertrude Atherton and Her translated and with an introduction by Cola
Times by Emily Wortis Leider. This is the first biogra- Franzen. The female characters in the novel rule
phy of Gertrude Atherton (1857-1948), one of the most countries, are oppressed, and rise again individual-
famous, outspoken, and successful novelists of her time. ly and in groups. Swaggering heroines of tango, the
It emphasizes her place in the emergent debate on the Argentines Eva and Isabelita Peron, the itinerant
place of women in society and her friendships with Filipina Imelda Marcos, and their male consorts
such figures as Ambrose Bierce and Gertrude Stein. may be glimpsed in a vision whose sustained
$14.95 pb, 0-8047-2219-6; $45 cl, 0-8047-1820-2. humor dazzles us with the conundrums of violence,
Families in Jeopardy: Regulating the Social machismo, and exile. Latin American Women
Body in France, 1750- 1910 by Roddy Reid. The Writers Series. $35 cl, 0-8032-1234-8; $10.95 pb, 0-
author shows how a new commercial and learned 8032-6112-8.
print culture attempted to write and regulate indi- Industrial Park by Patricia Galvão (Pagu),
vidual and collective practices in terms of a master translated by Elizabeth and K. David Jackson, after-
idiom of family, sexuality, and gender upon which word by K. David Jackson. Patricia Galvão offers a
a post-revolutionary national community would unique portrait of women in São Paulo during the
turn. $39.50 cl, 0-8047-224-2. 1930s. The novel dramatizes the problems of
Stanford University Press, Stanford CA 94305. exploitation, poverty, racial prejudice, prostitution,
state repression, and neocolonialism. Latin
American Women Writers Series. $10.95, 0-8032-
A l 7041-0; $21.95 cl, 0-8032-2147-9.
Daughters of Eve: Women’s Writing from the
TEACHERS COLLEGE PRESS/THE German Democratic Republic, translated and edit-
ATHENE SERIES ed by Nancy Lukens and Dorothy Rosenberg. This
TC Press is very pleased to announce a new first anthology of contemporary East German
addition to the Athene Series, due in November: women’s writing in English translation will intro-
Surviving the Dalkon Shield IUD: Women v. the duce readers to twenty-five writers whose voices
Pharmaceutical Industry by Karen Hicks. Hicks not are essential to an understanding of the situation of
only shares her story and that of other survivors, women in the new Europe. Included are short sto-
but also tells how she founded a movement (the ries, essays, autobiographical sketches, and excerpts
Dalkon Shield Information Network) that chal- from novels, written between 1974 and 1986 by
lenged medical and legal violence against women. women of the postwar generation. European
$16.95 pb, 0-8077-6207-9; $37 cl, 0-8077-6217-7. Women Writers Series. $14.95 pb, 0-8032-7942-6; $40
TC Press, PO Box 2032, Colchester VT 05449, c], 0-8032-2892-9.
800-488-2665. If you are still having problems get- Making Bodies, Making History: Feminism
ting Athene books or have questions about dis- and German Identity by Leslie A. Adelson. In West
counts, etc., call Leyli Shayegan, special liaison with German literature in the 1970s and 1980s bodies
feminist bookstores, at 212-678-3919 (collect if nec- functioned not as victims of history nor as alle-
essary) or write to her at: TC Press, 1234 gories for the nation but as sites of contested identi-
Amsterdam Avenue, New York NY 10027. ties. Focusing on conflicts about identity in present-
Volume 16 Number 4 59 November 1993
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:14 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
NOW AVAILABLE FOR
MLA TEXTS b
Two rediscovered nov
TRANSLATIONS
The MLA is pleased to announce the “A work of startling modernity,
publication of the first two works in its which could easily become a
curricular standard like ‘The Yellow
new Texts and Translations series. attes of Mistress Flenkey
Wallpaper' or The Awakening."
Published by Her Friend
The series includes texts and translations | ENGLISH SHOWALTER, JR.
PROFESSOR OF FRENCH, RUTGERS UNIVERSITY
not otherwise available at reasonable AUTHOR OF THE EVOLUTION OF THE FRENCH NOVEL
prices for students and general readers.
The first two works, both eighteenth- M ISTR tEheS Sw i fHe eonf ltehye p ehrafesc t rheuscbeanndt. l yTa ll ,become
handsome, even-tempered, and reasonable,
century epistolary novels written in
Mr. Henley is the widower of a woman who
French by women, will debut at the left him a large fortune, the father of an an-
MLA convention (Toronto, 27—30 De- gelic five-year-old girl, and the second son
of the earl of Reading. Yet Mistress Henley
cember) and will be in bookstores in ISABELLE DE finds herself incapable of making her hus-
January. Proposals for works in Ger- band—and herself—happy. Nothing she
man, Italian, Spanish, and other lan- CHARRIERE does—the way she treats her stepdaughter,
her decisions about the household, how she
guages are currently being evaluated. L HE ET NT LE ER YS PO UF B L M ISI HST EDR E S BS Y dresses for a ball—is to his liking. She has
HER FRIEND chosen a decent and affectionate man as
Readers will be delighted by the high PHILIP STEWART AND her life's companion, only to discover that
JEAN VACHE, TRANS. she cannot bear sharing his life.
quality and low price of each volume. I BN IBT LR IO OD GU RC AT PI HON Y , B N YO T JE OS A, N A N HD INDE Considered by many scholars to be
The books are attractively designed, with STEWART AND PHILIP STEWART among the most brilliant novels written in
large type and wide margins, and Publication date: January 1994 French during the eighteenth century, Letters
Trade paperback. xxix & 42 pp. of Mistress Henley Published by Her Friend was
printed on acid-free paper. ISBN 0-87352-776-3 $3.95 composed as a response to Samuel de Con-
stants misogynist novel The Sentimental
Husband (1783). An immediate success
Companion volumes containing the About the author on its publication in 1784, Mistress Henley
original French texts are also available: Born in 1740 to a Dutch aristocratic was greeted with acclaim and controversy:
family, ISABELLE DE CHARRIERE pub- one reader called the book “literarily excel-
Lettres de Mistriss Henley lished her first novel, The Nobleman, in lent” but “morally dangerous in various
publiées par son amie her early twenties. In 1771 she married
xxx & 45 pp. ISBN 0-87352-775-5 $3.95 her brothers’ former tutor and moved ways.” Remarkable for its empathy for both
Lettres d'une Péruvienne w ini t h S w h iti zm er lat no d ,C o wlo hm erb eie r s, h ea ls im vea dl l uv ni tll ia lge s wp oo ru ks e s o, f M fi is ct tr ie os ns bH ue tn l e ay ls o i s o nn eo t o fo n tl hy e a m m oso tving
xxviii & 168 pp. ISBN 0-87352-777-1 $5.95 her death in 1805 modern novels of its day
Volume 16 Number 4 60
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:14 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
$25,000 Promotional Budget
The MLA is supporting the new series with a
broadly based advertising and direct-mail
campaign. Advertising will appear in
° Bloomsbury Review (A page)
“. . . one of the three or four most e Boston Review (⁄ page)
° French Review (full page)
! influential novels of the French Z • Lingua Franca (full page)
; Enlightenment, with an impact s _etters from a ° • SN ae nw F Y rao nr ck i s cR oe v Rie ew vi e wof oB fo o Bk os o k(⁄ s ( 4p a g pe a) ge)
comparable to that of Candide.” o VLS (4 page)
JANET ALTMAN ° Women’s Review of Books (4 page)
PROFESSOR OF FRENCH, UNIVERSITY OF IOWA and more than a dozen other literary reviews
and scholarly periodicals. Nearly 70,000
Kn tbhyeir tchoneq u eSspt a onfi a Predrus, dthuer iInncga brochures and catalogs featuring the two ti-
princess Zilia is torn from her homeland and tles will be sent to MLA members and cus-
her future husband, Aza. In these letters to tomers. All advertisements and direct-mail
Aza, she describes the torments she endures pieces will inform readers that the books are
during her trip across the Atlantic, her cap- available from bookstores.
t hu er re a b rry i v t alh e o nF r e tn hc eh E uaf rt oe pr e a na b coa ntt tl ie n e a nt t . s e Da u, r ia nn gd F R AA RN NÇ GO LI ASE T E D DE B G Y R A DAFF VI IG DN Y KORNACHER Special 50% Trade Discount
t fh roe m l a t tt he er kp ia nr dt n eo sf s h oe fr t v ho ey a sg he i, p ' sZ i cli oa m b me an ne df eit rs , FRANÇOISE DE sT ph ecr io au l g h 5 0 %J u n die s c o1 u99 n4 t t oh ne oM rdL eA r s i s o f o f ff ie fr ti yn g b oa oks
Déterville, who calms her fears and begins to GRAFFIGNY
teach her the elements of the French lan- or more. (The fifty items in the order may
guage. Believing that she is being transport- LETTERS FROM A include other MLA titles, including the
ed to an outer province of the Inca Empire, PERUVIAN WOMAN MLA Handbook |3 million copies sold],
Zilia hopes that her new friend will eventual- DAVID KORNACKER, TRANS. but the 50% discount will apply only to the
l sy h eh el p l e h ae rr n f si n d t oh er c w oa my m ba uck n it co a P te er u . w In i t P ha ri s Déterville AIN NT DR O ND AU NCT CI YO N K . B Y M I LJ LO EA RN De JEAN titles in the new series. Please note that the
Publication date: January 1994 MLA does not accept overstock returns.)
and his family and discovers that her protec- Trade paperback. xxviii & 174 pp.
tor has fallen in love with her. ISBN 0-87352-778-X $5.95 Complimentary Reader’
Letters from a Peruvian Woman was one Copies for Booksellers
of the most popular works of the eigh- About the author
teenth century: during the hundred years Born in 1695, FRANÇOISE DE GRAFFIGNY For free advance copies of both titles, call
following its publication in 1747, it ap- grew up in Lorraine. Married in 1712, 212 614-6304, fax 212 477-9863, or
peared in more than 130 editions, reprints, s leh ne t w pa hs y st ih cae l v ai bc ut sim e b o yf hf er re q u he un st b a nan dd . Sv hi eo- write to the MLA Promotions Coordinator
and translations. Graffigny’s novel offered was granted a legal separation, but not at the address below.
a bold critique of French society and deliv- before he had squandered much of her
ered one of the most vehement feminist dowry. In 1738 Graffigny moved to Paris
protests in eighteenth-century literature. and began a writing career, during which Modern Language Association
This new edition, the first English transla- s ph lae y sp e (n on ne ed o fst o wri he is c, h ,c h Cil éd nr ie en , ’s w f asa b l ae s , smash N10 ew A s Yt oo rr k ,P l Nac Ye 10003-6981
tion in nearly two hundred years, will de- hit in 1750), and Letters from a Peruvian Phone orders: 212 614-6382
light and surprise modern readers. Woman. She died in Paris in 1758. Fax orders: 212 477-9863
61 November 1993
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:14 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsday Germany and on literary texts in which the in Canada to head a major medical department, Dr.
body is an aesthetic construct, Adelson reformu- Black challenged and inspired all she met. Her life
lates questions of embodiment and historical was shaped by the division between her identity as
agency. $25 cl, 0-8032-1036-1. a woman, and her profession in a field dominated
Crackpot by Adele Wiseman. Earthy, bawdy, by men. She found balance in lifelong, passionate
vulnerable, and big- hearted, Hoda is a prostitute friendships with other women and carefully pre-
and the daughter of an impoverished Jewish couple served the details of her life; women’s herstory is
who emigrated from Russia to Canada to escape richer for it. $24.95 US cl, 0-88755-157-2, 336 pp, 20
p sher e s e ec xu pt eio rn ie. n cG er s o w crin ueg l t yu p a nin d a b i gg oh te rt yt o e ao rf l y W ai nn dn i p fe ig g, hts b&w photos. 4.
back with humor and anger, which is something to N
behold as her young body takes on gargantuan pro- èl
portions. $11.95 pb, 0-8032-9753-X. Sales in the Wild Mother Dancing: Motherhood Narrative
United States and possessions only. Sales in the in Canadian Literature by Di Brandt. A critical
United States and possessions only. study of maternal narrative in contemporary
University of Nebraska Press, PO Box 880520, Canadian literature exploring the traditional role of
Lincoln NE 68588-0520. Distributed by Baker & the mother character, the violence done to exclude
Taylor, Ingram, Pacific Pipeline, Bookpeople and her, and the new sources for telling the new (or old,
Koen Book Distributors. forbidden story) against a tradition of narrative
d absence. The recovery of the motherstory, from
cross-cultural and marginalized sources has revolu-
l tionary implications for our institutions and imagi-
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME PRESS nations. $15.95 US pb (subject to change), 0-88755-
Searching for Christ: The Spirituality of 632-9, 180 pp (approx.), Dec. 1993.
Dorothy Day by Brigid O'Shea Merriman, O.S.F. The Cree Language is Our Identity: The La
Acclaimed as a pioneer of American social Ronge Lectures of Sarah Whitecalf, edited and
Catholicism, as well as for co-founding the Catholic translated by Freda Ahenakew. Sarah Whitecalf
Worker and the movement by the same name, discusses aspects of her traditional life with a group
Dorothy Day’s religious vision and life work have of Cree teachers. Whether explaining women’s
played a dramatic role in modern American crafts, medicine, or spiritual beliefs, she stresses the
Catholic history. In this perceptive new study, importance of language as a vehicle of culture and
Brigid O'Shea Merriman examines the develop- identity. Using actual experiences as examples, her
ment of Day’s spirituality, relating it to twentieth- intention was not to tell stories but to explicate Cree
century intellectual and cultural history. $29.95 cl, practices and beliefs. In Plains Cree (roman orthog-
0-268-01750-6, Jan. 1994. raphy and syllabics), and English translation. $18.95
University of Notre Dame Press, PO Box 635, pb, 0-88755-629-9.
South Bend IN 46624. University of Manitoba Press, 244-106 Curry PI.,
Winnipeg Manitoba, Canada R3T 2N2. For more
UNIVERSITY OF MANITOBA PRESS information, contact Allison Campbell. Please note
Tell the Driver: A Biography of Elinor F.E. that all of our title are distributed by University of
Black, M.D. by Julie Vandervoot. The first woman Toronto Press. American orders are shipped from
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:14 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
the warehouse in Cheektowaga, NY. Orders of 5 or Andrea Rugh. Written to preserve the details of a
more books, mixed or single titles, receive a 40% “genuine Arab past” for Syrian young people,
discount. Tergeman captures the everyday aspects of her life
Send all orders to University of Toronto Press, in 1940s Damascus. Her vignettes yield a wealth of
5201 Dufferin St., Downsview Ontario M3H 5T8. information about a woman's role in modern Syrian
Phone 416-667-7791; FAX 416-667-7832. society and customs. Modern Middle East Literature
in Translation Series. $10.95 pb, 0-292-78126-1.
The Wiles of Men and Other Stories by Salwa
A èl B tia ok nr , b ytr a Bn as rla bt ae rd a b Hy a r lD oe wn .y s S e tJ o ah mns oo nn g- D ta hvi ee s , p o i on rt r oo fd u c c- on-
UNIVERSITY OF OKLAHOMA PRESS temporary Cairo, these thirteen stories and a novella
Biography and memoirs: Remember the demonstrate the strange, desperate escape paths
Ladies: A Woman’s Book of Days by Kirstin Olsen. women resort to in a conservative society of social
A wonderful collection of interesting stories about and sexual prejudice. $14.95 pb, 0-292-70800-9.
independent women throughout history, one for Uncollected Early Prose of Katherine Anne
each day, featuring singers, actresses, photogra- Porter edited by Ruth M. Alvarez and Thomas F.
phers, aviators, political activists, business tycoons, Walsh. Bringing together twenty-nine pieces dating
dancers, film directors, artists, athletes, inventors, from before 1932, none of which has ever appeared
diplomats, labor leaders, and a host of female saints in her collected works, readers can catch glimpses
and sinners. $17.95. of Porter's view on Mexican politics, take in her
Women’s Studies: From Mission to Metropolis: first two book reviews, and peruse six previously
Cupeño Indian Women in Los Angeles by Diana unpublished short stories. $35 cl, 0-292- 76544-4,
Meyers Bahr. Bahr presents the stories of three gen- Jan. 1994.
erations of contemporary Cupeño women: Anna, University of Texas Press, PO Box 7819, Austin
Patricia, and Tracie, as she reveals the women’s TX 78713-7819. Available through Ingram, Inland,
thoughts and feelings over time and how their Baker & Taylor, and other major wholesalers. To
behaviors in each area reflect persistence or change order directly from the press, our standard retail
in traditional tribal beliefs. Although Los Angeles is trade discount schedule is as follows: 1 or 2 copies
home to the highest number of Indians of any city earns a 20% discount; 3-24, 40%; 25-99, 42%.
oin n e t h oe f n that ei o n sm, at llh ee s t C bu ap ne dñ so s , o f w i Ct ah l if 1 o5 r0 n i am e Mm isb se ir os n, are l<
Indians. $24.95.
University of Oklahoma Press, Publishing èl
Division of the University of Oklahoma, 1005 Asp UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN PRESS
Avenue, Norman OK 73019-0445. The Red Virgin: A Poem of Simone Weil by
Stephanie Strickland; winner of the Brittingham
UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS PRESS Prize in Poetry. “This book of poems, dazzling in
Money Makes Us Relatives: Women’s Labor in their brilliance, presents Simone Weil in the fullness
Urban Turkey by Jenny White. White’s field of her life as a woman, as a political protester, as a
research among immigrant communities of Istanbul, spirit responding with intelligence and honesty to
where impoverished women work long hours pro- the pain, the inhumanity, the dishonesty of life in
ducing goods for export but deny that they actually the twentieth century... This is a book feminists
“work,” further explores why men and women alike have long waited for.” — Carroll Smith-Rosenberg,
devalue women’s work and demonstrates how these University of Pennsylvania. $9.95 pb, 0-299-13474-1;
ideologies create a pool of cheap labor for the world $14.50 c1, 0-299-13470-9.
market. $12.95 pb, 0-292-79086-4. On Wisconsin Women: Working for Their
Daughter of Damascus: A Memoir by Siham Rights from Settlement to Suffrage by Genevieve
Tergeman, English version and introduction by G. McBride, with a foreword by Paul S. Boyer.
63 November 1993
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:14 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
From the passage of the Fourteenth Amendment in combines these autobiographical vignettes with
1866 to the state's historic ratification of the ethnographic material, survey findings, and her
Nineteenth Amendment in 1919, Wisconsin’s own observations. $12.95 pb, 0-299- 13794-5; $37.50
women were never at a loss for words nor a news- c], 0-299-13790-2.
paper to print them. On Wisconsin Women traces Forthcoming in Spring, 1994: Women as
women’s work in reform movements in the state’s Revolutionary Agents of Change: The Hite
politics and press, revealing once again the voices Reports and Beyond by Shere Hite and
of Ada James, Olympia Brown, Belle Case La Contemporary Cases in Women’s Rights by Leslie
Follette, and many others. $19.95 pb, 0-29914004-0; Friedman Goldstein.
$43 cl, 0-299-14000-8. The University of Wisconsin Press, 114 N.
Murray St., Madison WI 53715-1199. University of
Wisconsin Press books may be ordered from Baker
nl & Taylor, Ingram, and many other wholesalers, or
Geography and Plays by Gertrude Stein, intro- directly from the press. To qualify for discount plan,
duction by Sherwood Anderson, with a new intro- order from our sales representatives. For more
duction by Cyrena N. Pondrom. Originally pub- information, contact the sales or business managers.
lished in 1922, this new edition of Gertrude Stein’s
writing from 1910 to 1920 makes it possible once UTAH STATE UNIVERSITY PRESS
again to see the developing strategies of one of the Maria Calleja’s Gozo: A Life History edited
acknowledged giants of literary modernism. A new and introduced by Micheline Galley, from their
introduction by Cyrena N. Pondrom provides con- UNESCO Collection of Representative Works,
temporary readers with a fine orientation to the European Series. Gozo (the second largest
importânce of Stein’s achievement in this early Mediterranean island in the Maltese archipelago)
work. $14.95 pb, 0-299-13470-9; $40 cl, 0-299-13474-1. has a long history going back beyond classical
Dolor y Alegría: Women and Social Change in times to the prehistoric period. Its scenery, physical
Urban Mexico by Sarah Le Vine. Fifteen mothers, features and architectures, together with its tradi-
grandmothers, and great-grandmothers in the tional way of life have drawn visitors to its shores
Mexican city of Cuernavaca speak about the dra- and inspired poets. Against this island setting
matic effect that urbanization and rapid social Maria Calleja tells her own story. Her life history is
change have had on their lives. Sarah Le Vine deftly inextricably linked with that of Gozo and its now-
p- v 87an 42is 1h -i 1n 6g 9 - 7w .ay of life. $29.95 cl, short discount, 0-
I just don't know if Im a You've qol whit
post -Structuralist mqarrisk or used to be called
q deconstructive feminist or an existentidl l
dilemm dv nU int ga h S Ht ea t e oU esn i Pv oe er ms si t Ay ua tl s Oo p Wub omli es nh ,ed Only
something enkirely different... Mor in r S h : b o l d
edited by Leatrice Lifshitz. “This book is not about
becoming old; it is about being old. It is not about
euphemism, fantasy, or fairy tales. It is about the
real thing: really being an old woman in a society
where neither one nor the other — age or female-
ness — is an asset.” — Leatrice Lifshitz, from the
introduction. $12.95 pb, 0-87421-145-X.
Utah State University Press, 871 E. 900 N.,
Logan UT 84322-7800. Our wholesalers include:
Pacific Pipeline, Crown West, Dixie Book Service,
Ingram’s, Wasatch Book Distribution.
November 1993 64 Volume 16 Number 4
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:14 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
ini
UNIVERSITY PRESS OF KANSAS Lawrence KS 66049-3904. Available through
Good Sex: Perspectives on Sexual Ethics by Ingram, Baker & Taylor, Pacific Pipeline.
Raymond A. Belliotti. Covers a myriad of issues,
including the origin of gender and reproductive UNIVERSITY PRESS OF MISSISSIPPI
roles, the function of morally permissible sex, het- Conversations with Louise Erdrich and
erosexuality and homosexuality, mutual consent, Michael Dorris, edited by Allan Chavkin and
and extramarital sex. “A lively and engaging study Nancy Feyl Chavkin. Louise Erdrich and Michael
of the ethical dimensions of human sexuality. Dorris, the most prominent writers of Native
Belliotti takes up the most explosive aspects of his American descent, collaborate on all their works. In
subjects and treats them all with good sense and these interviews, conducted both separately and
good humor.” — James Rachels, author of Created jointly, they discuss how their writing moves from
from Animals. $14.95 pb, 0-7006-0605-X. conception to completion and how The Beet Queen,
Tracks, A Yellow Raft in Blue Water and The Crown of
Columbus have been enhanced by both their artistic
NA and their matrimonial union. Being of mixed blood
and having lived in both white and Indian worlds,
Wagon Wheel Kitchens: Food on the Oregon they give an original perspective on American soci-
Trail by Jacqueline Williams. An entertaining look ety. $14.95 pb, 0-87805-652-1; $35 cl, 0-87805-651-3,
at how pioneer women cooked and ate on the trail. Feb. 1994.
Williams describes what they took, how they stored Robbing the Mother: Women in Faulkner by
things, and what recipes and creative cooking tech- Deborah Clarke. William Faulkner claimed that it
niques they used to sustain themselves on the ardu- may be necessary for a writer to “rob his mother”
ous journey west. “This lively book puts the reader should the need arise. “If a writer has to rob his
squarely on the Oregon Trail — baking bread in a mother, he will not hesitate; the ʻOde on a Grecian
Dutch oven over a campfire, searing buffalo meat, Urn’ is worth any number of old ladies,” he
and trading for fresh vegetables and fish.” — remarked. This study of Faulkner's paradoxical atti-
Glenda Riley, author of The Female Frontier. 244 pp, tude toward women, particularly mothers, will
17 photographs; $14.95 pb, 0-7006-0610-6. stimulate debate and concern, for his novels are
Kansas Quilts and Quilters by Barbara shown here to have presented them as both a
Brackman, Jennie A. Chinn, Gayle R. Davis, Terry source and a threat to being and to language. $30 cl,
Thompson, Sara Reimer Farley, Nancy Hornback. 0-87805-592-4, Feb. 1994.
The first comprehensive discussion of quilts and
quiltmaking in Kansas, this volume illuminates an
enduring art, celebrates the women who create it, l
and chronicles its relation to the historical and cul- The Dragon’s Blood: Feminist Intertextuality
tural heritage of the state. “A major contribution to in Eudora Welty’s The Golden Apples by Rebecca
the literature on quilts and women’s lives.” — Mark. In this revolutionary study of Welty, Rebecca
Gwen Marston, author of Twenty Little Patchwork Mark and other critics focus not upon Welty’s
Quilts. 216 pp, 165 photographs, 68 in full color, 8 southern qualities but instead upon her total
1/2 x 11; $22.50 pb, 0-7006-0585-1. engagement with literary modernism. Mark shows
University Press of Kansas, 2501 West 15th $t., that Welty’s text confronts one of the mainstays of
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:14 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termswestern literary tradition — the indomitable hero. brings together the work of pioneering scholars in
She argues that the intertextuality in Welty reveals the field — critics who are exploring the psychosex-
a communal narrative that transforms such mascu- ual tensions within Bishop’s vision and the uncan-
line elements of rape and domination of the femi- ny way her poetics of dislocation challenges our
nine into narratives of engagement, battle, fertility assumptions about placement and orientation.
and sexual exchange between the masculine and $15.95 pb, 0-8139-1445-0; $47.50 cl, 0-8139-1444-2.
feminine. $35 cl, 0-87805-661-0, Feb. 1994. Famous Last Words: Changes in Gender and
Margaret Atwood’s Fairy-Tale Sexual Politics Narrative Closure, edited by Alison Booth. This
by Sharon Rose Wilson. The engaging writing and collection of original essays on women’s relations to
the eerie art of Margaret Atwood braid together novelistic endings demonstrates the versatility and
fairy-tale themes from Grimm and Anderson with range of feminist criticism today. The authors,
the feminist concerns for which this Canadian widely known in their fields, offer fresh insights
author is known. The Handmaid's Tale, for example, into the study of narrative, the changes in gender
is her version of Little Red Riding Hood facing roles and cultural traditions since the Victorians,
patriarchy’s wolf. Wilson’s analysis of Atwood’s and the interaction of fictional forms and ideology
sexual politics through fairy-tale patterns offers a from the mid-nineteenth century to the present.
fresh appreciation of the fairy tale’s ability to illu- $17.95 pb, 0-8139-1437-X; $47.50 cl, 0-8139-1436-1.
minate modern literature. Also, here for the first An Evening When Alone: Four Journals of
time Atwood has allowed examples of her artwork Single Women in the South, 1827-67, edited by
to be published. $35 cl, 0-87805-639-4. Dec. 1993. Michael O’Brien. This book will greatly enhance
awareness of the situation of single women in the
lgA nineteenth century South. It presents the journals of
| è| af no u r ir ov ne ir cy s ed nif sif be ir lie tn yt , w a o m goe vn e: r na e s sy o lu in vig n g w o inm a dn i s cw oi mth -
UNIVERSITY PRESS OF fort on a Mississippi plantation, a high-society belle
MISSISSIPPI/BANNER BOOKS on gossipy patrol, and an “old maid” struggling to
The Snare by Elizabeth Spencer, introduction by bring up her sister's children and endure the Civil
Peggy Whitman Prenshaw. New Orleans has its War. $35 c], 0-8139-1440-X.
dark underside as well as its glowing delights. This The University Press of Virginia, Box 3608,
1982 novel, now available in paperback for the first University Station, Charlottesville VA 22903.
time, explores one young woman's journey through
that hidden labyrinth, illuminating life on the other
side. She is Julia Garrett, who does not find content-
ment in her family’s mannered society in the Garden
District, a world of grace and grandees. Seeking her VERSO
identity, she crosses to the titillating world of the The History of Doing: The Women’s Movement
Vieux Carre, risking physical and psychological in India by Radha Kumar. A pathbreaking history
peril. The Snare is for readers of choice writing and covering the period from the nineteenth century to
for those who seek to sense the sinister, exotic flavor the present day. Produced in India and lavishly illus-
of New Orleans. $16.95 pb, 0-87805-666-1. trated throughout, this book uses photograph’s, old
University Press of Mississippi, 3825 and new documents, excerpts from letters, books
Ridgewood Road, Jackson MS 39211-6492. and informal writings to trace the formation and
growth of Indian women’s organizations. $19.95 pb,
UNIVERSITY PRESS OF VIRGINIA 0-86091-665-0; $64.95 c1, 0-86091-455-0.
Elizabeth Bishop: The Geography of Gender, Women’s Pictures: Feminism and Cinema by
edited by Marilyn May Lombardi. This is the first Annette Kuhn. This pioneering and influential
book to use current feminist critical theory as a lens work in feminist film theory is now being reissued
through which to view Elizabeth Bishop’s art. It by Verso. In her lucid and comprehensive explo-
66
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:14 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
fa
s iI WAI A
ration of the relationship between feminism and viding a provocative feminist perspective on gender
cinema, Annette Kuhn discusses the issues, and comedy. $29.95 c], 0-8143-2136-4.
explains the analytical terms, and examines the Renaissance Women Writers: French
alternatives for feminist film analysis and for femi- Texts/American Contexts, edited by Anne R.
nist filmmaking. $17.95 pb, 0-86091-641-3. Larsen and Colette H. Winn. Reflecting current
trends in Renaissance scholarship in the United
if States, this is the first book entirely dedicated to the
study of French women writers of the early modern
rl period. The twelve essays analyze the formation of
Cinderella Goes to Market: Citizenship, women’s literary identity by exploring the works of
Gender and the Women’s Movement in East eight of the most frequently read women writers of
Central Europe by Barbara Einhorn. Barbara this period. $39.95 cl, 0-8143-2473-8.
Einhorn’s timely account of women’s position Reading with a Difference: Gender, Race, and
“before” and “after” in Eastern Germany, Poland, Cultural Identity: <BI>A Criticism Book, edited by
Czechoslovakia, and Hungary, argues that there is Arthur F. Marotti, Renata R. Mautner Wasserman,
no magic wand available for Europe's Cinderellas. Jo Dulan, and Suchitra Mathur. The essays in this
' Her book shows how issues of gender are today at | new book examine how issues of gender, race and
|the h de a r pt io tif lp o tt re an nt sia fl oly e ax tip ol no .s i v $e p .9r 5o c pes bs ,e s -o 8f 9so 1c -i a l cc eu nlt tu ur ra yl i td oe n tt hit ey i rn ef seo nr tm It ne cx lt us dfr o am t dh ie us se sv ioen nt seenth
a n o l c a rm 1 7 0 6 0 | p . d e re s c
615-4; $59.95 cl, 0-86091-410-0. exploring the notion that identity — particularly
Shades of Noir, edited by Joan Copjec. The con- gender identity — is a cultural construct and the
tributors to this book examine film noir in the light ways in which race and gender intersect with cul-
of contemporary political and social concerns, and tural identity. $16.95 pb, 0-8143-2493-2.
from new theoretical insights. They pay special All prices subject to short discount. Wayne State
attention to the lethal relation between the sexes, to University Press, The Leonard N. Simons Building,
the 0 “fem-me f8atale,”6 and 0 the r9ole o1f othe-r w4omen 6 in 59059 W-oodw7ard A.ven ue, Detr|oit MI 48202.
noir. Routledge, $18.95 pb, 0-86091-625-1; $59.95 cl, A
West V 35e tr h s So t. , i Ns e w d Yi os rkt r Ni Yb u 10t 0e 01d -2 2 9i 1n . the U.S. by Routledge, 29 N T
ZED BOOKS/ HUMANITIES PRESS
WAYNE STATE UNIVERSITY PRESS Ecofeminism: Reconnecting a Divided World
Untamed and Unabashed: Essays on Women by Maria Mies and Vandana Shiva. Is there a rela-
and Humor in British Literature by Regina Barreca. tionship between patriarchal oppression and the
Regina Barreca, noted authority on women and destruction of nature in the name of profit and
humor, examines the use of humor in the works of progress? Noted feminists and scholars Mies and
Jane Austen, Charlotte Bronte, George Eliot, | Shiva pose this and other important questions
Elizabeth Bowen, Muriel Spark, and Fay Weldon. while seeking to identify and define an ecofeminist
She analyzes the ways that each writer uses comedic epistemology and methodology concerning women
devices, especially those involving language itself, and the environment. They explore areas where
V ando dilscuussems thee g en de1red6 bi as ofN thueir m humobr, epror- con ve4nti on al 6 th7eor ies dNo noot vproevidme adebquateer 1993
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:14 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFA A
answers, rethinking economics, enim feminism, mental sustainability, women’s autonomy, local
development, and reproductive and bio- technolo- self- reliance and peace. This unique work is a use-
gy. $19.95 pb, 1-85649-156-0; $55 cl, 1-85649-155-2. ful contribution to a topic with immense implica-
Palestinian Women: Identity and Experience, tions for all women in the Third World. $17.50 pb,
edited by Ebba Augustin. This anthology by 1-85649-184-6; $49.95 cl, 1-85649-183-8..
Palestinian women draws on research and on per- Alienation and Social Criticism, edited by
sonal accounts of women’s experiences in the pre- Richard Schmitt and Thomas E. Moody. This text
Intifada period and during the Intifada. assembles reports of and reflections about the var-
Contributors, including Hannan Ashrawi, well- ied experiences of alienation from the concrete per-
known for her role in the Middle East Peace spectives of women, people of color, the handi-
Program, poignantly portray the difficulties of cop- capped, the elderly, and others. Of particular inter-
ing with tear gas and curfews, beatings, sexual est to feminist studies are chapters on aging and the
abuse, deportations and bereavement — yet all bear politics of beauty; narcissism, femininity and beau-
witness to the women’s courage and determination ty; the alienation of women under the capitalist sys-
to work for peace. $19.95 pb, 1-85649-234-6; $55 cl, tem; denial of sexuality, anger, vulnerability, and
1-85649-233-8. AN potentiality; and alienation and poverty.
Humanities Press, $17.50 pb, 0-391-0379708.
N Zed Books are distributed by Humanities Press,
165b Firyst Av enu e, IAtlnantic l Hiaghlannds NdJ 0.77 16, ando
The Power to Change: Third World Women
Shaping Their Environment, edited by the
Women’s Feature Service. An important book about
women and positive change — highlighting the Letters .……
attempts of women around the world to create Continued from page 6
more equitable and sustainable ways of living,
despite the alarming feminization of poverty in this ZR]
‘development decade.’ Analytical overviews situate
women’s struggles in their socio-political contexts,
linking action on the ground to policies from above, name is prominently stamped and visible, I will. I'd
and to ongoing debates within the women’s, devel- be glad to ship quantities to stores.
opment and ecology movements. $17.50 pb, 1- As far as sending authors on tour, I am limited
85649-226-5; $49.95 cl, 1-85649-225-7. by the author's schedule and by the cost of travel-
Women, the Environment and Sustainable ing. I welcome any ideas that are not labor inten-
Development: Towards a Theoretical Synthesis by sive for me. Remember, I do not send my books out
Rosi Braidotti, Ewa Charkiewicz, Sabine Hausler for typesetting. I do it. I also do the color seps for
and Saskia Wieringa. After a comprehensive review the book covers. I design and place the media ads. I
of current perspectives used in thinking about read and review submissions. I am too exhausted
women and development, the authors put forward for ideas that require elaborate phone conversations
the basic elements they consider necessary for con- and the like.
structing an alternative framework — emphasizing BesJt, enny Wrenn O
such values as the diversity of solutions, environ-
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:14 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
But Can She Type?
By Nett Hart dren. This is not about women putting the need of
Word Weavers Press children ahead of themselves as we have been asked
to do over and over. This is women understanding
What do you have for girls? It’s a reasonable that gender justice may not come at the expense of
question. If this is a feminist bookstore and our goal any member of the female body politic.
as feminists is to end the oppression based on sex By all accounts girls are in trouble. Not only is
as well as the oppressions women and girls suffer the “click” experience of consciousness raising not
for all other hierarchies of difference, then what do genetically passed, but adult women can offer girls
we have for girls? little more than what their mothers offered them.
As feminists, what we want for ourselves we want Girls complain of sexual harassment in school inter-
for women as a class, including women who are chil- fering with studies, creating stress and illness; deal
with diminishing self-esteem and lack of positive
body images. Should we tell them it doesn’t get bet-
ter when you're grown? Girls are at risk for suicide,
pregnancy, chemical dependency, STD's, homeless-
ness as runaways, and rape by fathers, brothers,
“dates,” teachers, and johns. Girls’ “help” signals
are less likely to be taken seriously because they are
less socially disruptive than boys. They get less
attention than boys from family, school personnel,
religious leaders. We as feminists and feminist
institutions, have failed girls.
We don’t want to hear it because we haven't
achieved the revolution for ourselves and we want
assurance that surely our efforts count for some-
thing, at least in the long run. But girls who were
conceived in feminism tell otherwise.
If the daughters’ lives are not safer from abuse
and misogynist mischief, it is not because as femi-
| Graphic by ABAY in From Bonding Wires to Banding Women. nists we haven’t looked under every boot on our
69 November 1993
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:14 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
arit n k
SOUM pENS
evgYv? HoEf ç O E JF
` UDITR FEIN, Ph.D.
> ka tamatta
back and articulated the harm that patriarchy does Feminism is incompatible with equal rights. As
` women — from deprivation of health care to mal- feminists we mean to end oppression based in dif-
| nutrition by fashion. It is not a lack of knowing. ference, not by ending difference, but by ending
Something in the gains we have fought hard for oppression, dismantling the system that subordi-
and won is hollow. nates one people to another because of definitions
I think we have erred as a movement with our of difference. That human rights for lesbians and
focus on equal rights. It is here that we have gays is being argued along the lines of biology, not
betrayed women and girls whom we carry under choice, should quicken our outrage because as
our banner when convenient, but whose needs are women we have long lived with oppression based
not addressed by the struggle for equal rights. We on biological differences.
have marched and chanted and revised billboards We have come to the junction where we have
for equal rights for women and equal rights for les- changed patriarchy as much as it will change, based
bians and gays. But while equal rights provide as it is in women-hatred. We risk internalizing that
some measure of recourse to discrimination for hatred of ourselves to the point of immobility. No
some, equal rights is not feminism. In our struggle self-respecting feminist can stay in the patriarchy
to become a part of the mainstream, we have lost this long.
our ability to critique its structure. What do we have for girls? For women who are
If we live in a patriarchy, equal rights means to poor? For women oppressed by racialism? We have
attain the privileges of white heterosexual middle all kinds of women’s social and professional net-
class xian males. The more we, as lesbians, ally our- works. We have lots of feminist and lesbian mer-
selves with gay men and the more we, as feminists, chandise. But do we have a Women’s Liberation
ally ourselves and our institutions with men’s val- Movement?
ues of success, the more we betray our feminist As feminists we will wear ourselves out and
social justice roots. We may make some “advances” still have the patriarchy if we challenge injustice
and buy the insularity that gives a measure of pro- piece by piece within a system that does not intend
tection and comfort: wages, benefits, homes. But as to play fair. We need to do more than survive. Our
women our lives are not worth much no matter feminist institutions, our bookstores and publica-
how brave or smart or strong or good or pretty we tions must be willing to end their cynicism that
are. Women will not gain equality in patriarchy. It’s positions them inside the system and become again
anatomical. If we forget how vulnerable we are, we respourcaes ftor r libeirataion.r It cis thime y to ta.ke o ut O the
need only look at the girls.
November 1993 70
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:14 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
By Dawn L. Martin Forthcoming Stores
Gina Mercurio has relocated, moving from
New Stores Boston to Toledo, Ohio to open a feminist book-
Blue Iris Books opened mid-October in store. People Called Women is located in a small
Waldport, Oregon located on the coast between shopping plaza called Cricket West. Gina sends her
Newport and Yachats. Anne Irving and Pat thanks to Mary at Crone’s Harvest, Laura at New
Plannette will stock a good selection of lesbian, Words and Allison at Southern Sisters, all of whom
feminist, mystery and recovery titles as well as gen- helped her to get started. People Called Women is
eral books. Blue Iris Books is on the Alsea Bay at located at 3153 W. Central Ave., Toledo OH 43606.
195 Maple Street two doors away from Bumps and Melissa Meeuwsen is planning to open a book-
Grinds, a woman-owned coffee house and t/1e meet- store in Green Bay Wisconsin. She can be reached at
ing place for women. Mailing address: PO Box 972, 1008 Cherry St. #2, Green Bay WI 54301.
Waldport OR 97394. Colleen M. Wiegers and Penny Skilnik are com-
The NOW Underground Bookstore in Bend, piling information for a business plan to open a les-
Oregon is currently open. Besides selling books, the bian, gay and women’s bookstore. They intend to
National Organization for Women Underground sell books by women of color, Aboriginal writers
Bookstore reports that they produce the only and non-mainstream authors. They’re looking for
statewide feminist newspaper in the state. You can any information that may be helpful for new book-
find NOW Underground at 1012 NW Wall St. #25, store owners. 604 Broadway Avenue Suite 4,
Bend OR 97701. Saskatoon SK Canada S7N 1A8.
Donna Biester opened the Renaissance Bookstore
and Coffeehaus in the business district of Wenonah,
New Jersey. It’s a multicultural bookstore/gourmet
coffee bar/art gallery in cozy quarters. The old
house where the store lives is “decidedly anti-mall,” Stores Move
formally a doctor's office turned day care center. Everyone’s Books in Brattleboro, Vermont has
They sell books for and by people from many cultur- found a new, more convenient home, not far from its
al backgrounds, feminist books, and lesbian and gay old one. Not only is the new space twice as big as
books. You can find Donna at 5B East Mantua their previous store, but Everyone's Books now gets
Avenue, Wenonah NJ 08090; 609-468-0001. twice the foot traffic and twice the sales. Ironically,
Her Story: A Bookstore for and by Women is the bookstore only moved five store fronts from 7
now open. Their address is 2 West Market Street, Elliot to 23 Elliot. But in Brattleboro, a town of 12,000
Hallam PA 17406. people, a few doors down puts Everyone's Books in
James E. Wolfe is proud to announce the opening the middle of the traffic area. Congratulations!
of The Pride Agenda Bookstore, a gay and lesbian People’s Books of Wisconsin has moved from
bookstore in the Chicago suburbs. You can mail to The 1808 North Farwell Ave. to 3512 North Oakland
Pride Agenda at PO Box 3508, Oak Park IL 60303. Ave., Milwaukee 53211.
71 November 1993
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:14 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Authors Move
Naiad reports that a number of their authors
are being happily transferred to new publishing Or OI
homes. Karen Sum is going to New Victoria with
| b oRthel aotfi v hee,r absoo k ws, e Mllu radser fisu tGuerrme a nwe o arnkd s .M uVrdiecrk ii s P.
hM ec rC o bn on oe kl sl i is n g to hi en g N yto la M Wad adw eo m Me yn s t P err yes s S ew ri it eh s. a Sl hl e lo iaf Compiled by Dawn L. Martin
Ortiz Taylor’s three titles, Southbound, Spring On October 18th, the Astraea National Lesbian
| Forward/Fall Back and Slow Dancing at Miss Polly's Action Foundation held its celebration to honor the
a Fr ae u l tg lo inin e g r et mo a b ine s d ai ts t r Nib aiu at de .d by Bi-lingual Press. winners of the 1993 and 1992 Astraea Lesbian Writers
Fund. This third round of award recipients are poets
H. Emelia Paredes of Oakland, California and Doris
Harris of Seattle, Washington; and fiction writers E.J.
Graff of Watertown, Massachusetts, Kleya Forte-
Escamilla of Aptos, California and Shay Youngblood
of Providence, Rhode Island. These selections were
| New Publishers made anonymously by a panel of judges — Cheryl
Clarke, Maureen Seaton, Judith Katz and Pat Powell
| S sib py ecl ia P liu zib nli gc a t inio n ns o nis f i ca t i on ne w b of oe km s i n ai bs ot u tp u wbl oi msh ee nr ’s sto- — vid ef sr o tm h e a o np lo yo l n o af ti o o nv ae l r g r5 a0 n0 t sa p pp rli oc ga rn at ms. A ins t r ta he ea Up nro it- ed
ries, women and aging, women and health, and States for lesbian writers.
womeħ’s studies. Their address is 50 SW Second
Ave. Suite 300, Portland OR 97204. TIN
Staff Moves The National Women’s Studies Association
On November 1, Roberta Rostorfer, who (NWSA) will hold its fifteenth annual conference,
worked as Barbara Grier’s personal assistant at “Teaching, Theory and Action: Women Working in a
Naiad Press for two years and two months (she Global Context” at Iowa State University, June 15-19,
d jt ohe bv e e i rl wo p ia te r hd e a Na n m an u ca c yl hl e r B g t eoy r e att nho oe i r r a e t d d e Fea ipn r t e s br re aa g nn r dd et ) Bh oa bd oe k g sit n .o s W le a h a iv n le eew T1 W9 ho9 em4 o. r e i n eT s’h s e i R n p ig r ahi m t Gsa , lr o y bP ao llt ih t Cie cm os n e ts o e f x a t r W e a o n H m du e m n C’ oa s nn c W eR poi trg ukh a, lt is z/ F inem g i n this et
at rh ee vf eo rl yks h a at p p N ya ia fd o r e n thvy em N a bn oc ty h’ .s good fortune, they B tio od ny : c oC no tm acp ta r Nat Wiv Se A ,P e Urs np ie vc et ri sv ie ts y. F ofor M m aro yre la n i dn ,f o Cr om lla e- ge
Park MD 20742. For paper, session or presentation
` Booth Space? quer i Tes h e c o Tn ot ka yct o K Inr tis e r nA an td ioe nr as lo n B oa ot k 5 F15 ai- r2 9 4 (T-3 IB3 F73 ) . 94, the
Women in Translation (formerly an imprint of largest international book fair in Asia held by pub-
| S ne isa tl / lP er se bs is a) n /w go ayul d r ol wik e a tt o A Bsh Aa .r e I f b o yo ot uh hs ap va ec e r o on om f e fm ori- l 2i 7s -h 3e 0r .s Tf ho er sp hu ob wli s h ise r os, r g w anil il z e db e b yh e l td h ei n s eT vo ek ny o la rJ ga en stuary
Tf sii htv oie o m n at si at n le ad ts aa 2 n 0 d 6w - i 2ca 8k 3 eb -d 7o 8o 4st e 4h n . ss et a of ff e r h u w mi ot rh ca a l lc h Jee ur nf eul dispo- ap tu ib onli ss h i in ng , J aw ph ano .l e s Mal oe r, e r e tt ha ai nl a 6n 0d 0 p cr oo mm po at ni io en s a l r ea ps rs eo sc ei- nt-
ing 30 countries will participate. For more informa-
| Aniversaries! Eti xo hn i b io tf i o nt so Jre apse ar nv e L tb do .,o t h A t ts npa : c e T I Bco Fn t ‘9ac 4t : S hR oe wed
Happy 10th Anniversary to Mama Bear’s Management, 1 8f Shinjuku-Nomura Building, 1-26-2
| Bookstore in Oakland, California! May you have Ni8shi 1 Sh-inju3ku,- S3hinj3uku4-ku5 To-ky7o 1963-025 J9apa.n ; F axO
| many, many more years Of success. O
November 1993
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:14 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Compiled by Dawn L. Martin Sinister Wisdom #53 wants writings by and
about old lesbians/dykes. The over-60 editors
Norcroft, a writing retreat for women, has resi- invite submissions of all kinds of writing and art
dencies available (for up to four weeks) to women from lesbians born before 1935. They “invite per-
writers in a beautiful, serene space on Minnesota's sonal histories, and especially material reflecting
spectacular North Shore of Lake Superior. For our present lives and expectations.” For guidelines
information write Norcroft, PO Box 300105, write SW, PO Box 3252, Berkeley CA 94703.
Minneapolis MN 55403 or call 612-377-8431. Deadline: February 1, 1994.
Iowa Woman magazine is offering two opportuni- É/7 TIAS
ties for women to publish. The eighth annual interna-
tional fiction, poetry and creative non-fiction essay
contest awards $300 and $150 first and second place The Femme Mystique: a lesbian anthology edited
prizes and publication for women writers anywhere. by Lesléa Newman to be published by Alyson
Deadline: December 31. In celebration of their 15th Publications seeks writing that explores all aspects
year in publishing, Jowa Woman magazine is soliciting of being a femme. Essays, stories, poems and B&W
personal essays or feature interviews and articles by photos sought from femmes, former femmes, future
and about women in publishing. For guidelines write femmes, femme wanna-bes and admirers of
to Iowa Woman, PO Box 680, Iowa City IA 52244. femmes. Lesléa Newman, The Femme Mystique, Box
815, Northampton MA 01061. January 30, 1994.
Sibyl Publications is asking for submissions
about women’s health and aging, women’s stories Self-portraits and personal commentaries/essays
and women’s stories depicted in myths. They are by lesbian and gay male artists are wanted for a
particularly interested in stories about older series of articles. Send to Tee A. Corinne, PO Box 278,
women who are role models of empowerment and Wolf Creek OR 97497. Deadline: December 1, 1993.
contribution to society. For information contact
Miriam Selby, Sibyl Publications, 50 S.W. Second For an anthology of lesbian erotic fiction: sensu-
#300, Portland OR 97204. al/sexual stories, essays, and commentaries are
wanted. Stories are especially encouraged which
Women’s Work: A Journal Of Who We Are is seek- reflect real-life situations or tell about learning to be
ing submissions in a variety of genres: poetry, fic- sexual with women. Tee A. Corinne, PO Box 278,
tion and essay. Women’s Work is a bi-monthly jour- Wolf Creek OR 97497. Deadline: March 1, 1994.
nal dedicated to exploring the work that we all do.
The editors recognize writers of diverse cultural Submissions are being sought for an Aıt/liology
and economic backgrounds, and are committed to of Women Writing on Adoption edited by Susan
presenting empowering information and images in Wadia-Ells to be published by Seal Press in 1994.
their content. 602 Avenue A, Snohomish WA 98290. Continued on page 106
November 1993
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:14 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsNEW TITLES FROM
TH BE QUICK INDEX ALYSON
ALYSON = SSA..
Và U EFR YA NA ATa n eS
1994-95 Edition BE:
THE ALYSON ALMANAC
1994-95 edition
by Alyson Publications
The most complete reference book available about the lesbian
and gay community — and also the most entertaining. Here
are brief biographies of some 300 individuals from through-
out history; a report card for every member of Congress; sig-
nificant dates from our history; addresses and phone num-
bers for major organizations, periodicals, and hotlines; and
much more.
$9.95, trade paper • about 350 pages
Oele te IK ISBN 1-55583-242-3 (November)
LESBIAN QUOTATIONS
Siae e N | by Rosemary E. Silva
cultu rlo e v . me . fo r dp oeo mrl ni t i Sc tas ip m pa hen sod to W hah s e r ce o l la er ce t e da l l t ht eh e b eq su to t oa fb l e l e sle bs ib ania n ws? i t A au nt dh o r w i sR do os mem a inry o nSi el v a vol-
ume, on topics ranging from Passion to Pets.
$9.95, trade paper • about 220 pages
ISBN 1-55583-231-8 (November)
TWO MOMS, THE ZARK, & ME
by Johnny Valentine; illustrated by Angelo Lopez
A young child with two moms, a playful animal called a
Zark, and the narrow-minded McFinks all come together in
£ lluswr atb edy b y J Ano geh to n Lon pey z Valentine t $h 12is .9 5w , h li am rgsi ec -a fl o rs mto ar ty , . c A log te hs •4 - 48 8. pages * full-color illustrations
ISBN 1-55583-236-9 (December)
Order from InBook/Inland, Bookpeople, or direct from the publisher.
Selected Alyson titles are available from Ingram and Golden-Lee.
ALYSON PUBLICATIONS
g 40 PLYMPTON STREET • BOSTON, MA 02118
617-542-5679 (Call orders toll-free: 800-8-ALYSON)
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:14 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
| ClaireLight 10. A Path With Heart, Jack Kornfield, Bantam
Santa Rosa Books, $11.95.
August 11. Alchemy of Illness, Kat Duff, Random House, $19.
1. Behind Closed Doors, Robbi Sommers, Naiad
| Press, $9.95 .*
2. The Attentive Heart, Stephanie Kaza, Fawcett
Books, $17.
3. The Key: And The Name of the Key Is
Willingness, A Center for the Practice of Zen Judy Horacek
Buddhist Meditation, $8.
4. Possessing The Secret Of Joy, Alice Walker,
PocketBooks, $5.99. Thirty First Street
5. SmokeScreen, Lynette Prucha, Clothespin Baltimore MD
Fever Press, $5.99. October
6. Venus Envy, Rita Mae Brown, Bantam Books, $21.95. What Is Found There: Notebooks on Poetry &
7. Women Who Run With The Wolves, Clarissa Politics by Adrienne Rich.
| Pinkola Estes, Ballantine Books, $23. Blood, Bread, & Roses: How Menstruation
| 8 . 9 . E n Fd eru rr ain rig 's G Pr laa cc ee s, FC oar ro l W F ol min ed ne ,r s M, aH ria ar np ner e C o Fl el rin rs a, r i ,$13. TC hre ea t Ded ia r t yh e o fW Lor atld oy ab y H uJ nu td ey r: G Mr yah n F. irst Year in
ed., Ferrari Publications, $12. Junior High by Lotoya Hunter.
10. Melting Point, Pat Califia, Alyson, $9.95. The Fifth Sacred Thing by Starhawk.
Alma Rose by Edith Forbes.
September Pigs in Heaven by Barbara Kingsolver.
1. There is Nothing Wrong With You, Cheri Your Blues Ain’t Like Mine by Bebe Moore
Huber, Keep It Simple Books, $12. Campbell.
2. Enduring Grace, Carol Flinders, HarperCollins, $13. Bailey’s Cafe by Gloria Naylor.
3. Behind Closed Doors, Robbi Sommers, Naiad Back Off! How to Confront and Stop Sexual
| Press, $9.95. Harassment and Harassers by Martha Langeland.
4. Lasher, Anne Rice, Random House, $25. WAC Stats: The Facts About Women by Women’s
5. Depression Book, Center for the Practice of Action Coalition.
Zen Buddhist Meditation, $7. Lesbian Culture: An Anthology edited by Julia
6. The Key: And The Name Of The Key Is Penelope and Susan Wolfe.
Willingness, Center for the Practice of Zen Breast Plates (Calendar) for WomenCARE: Cancer
| Buddhist Meditation, $8. Advocacy Resources & Education.
7. Wouldn't Take Nothing For My Journey Now, Children’s Books
Maya Angelou, Random House, $17. Dinner at Aunt Connie’s House by Faith
8. Tale Of The Body Thief, Anne Rice, Ballantine Ringold.
Books, $6.99. Tumble Tower by Anne Tyler.*
9. The Bean Trees, Barbara Kingsolver, Sofia and the Heart Mender by Marie Olofsdatter.
| HarperCollins, $12. *Local Artist
Volume 16 Number 4 73 November 1993
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:14 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsAmazon Bookstore
Minneapolis, MN
January to September 1993
Pinkola Estes.
Sound, Judith Katz.
Everything You Have is Mine, Sandra
Scoppettone.
Bastard Out of Carolina, Dorothy Allison.
Odd Girls and Twilight Lovers, Lillian Faderman.
WOMEN'S sTRENGTH © Blackboard
.. _TREEC FO dM A f*ri c anN-Aomveermicanb e Brestsellers
political and social issues - Hardcover Fiction
OUTRAGEOUSNESS * Ugly Ways by Tina McElroy Ansa, HBJ, $19.95.
| z | 2. Her Own Place by Dori Sanders, Algonquin of
DIAZA O/A Chapel Hill, $16.95.
3. A Lesson Before Dying by Ernest J. Gaines,
IM Perpetual Annoyance Knopf, $21.
4. Your Blues Ain’t Like Mine* by Bebe Moore
Y Campbell, Putnam, $22.95.
< 5. Waiting to Exhale* by Terry McMillan, Viking, $22.
Hardcover Non-Fiction
1. Wouldn't Take Nothing for My Journey Now
by Maya Angelou, Random House, $17.
2. What Black People Should Do Now by Ralph
Wiley, One World/ Ballantine, $22.
3. Volunteer Slavery: My Authentic Negro
T 0 Experience by Jill Nelson, Noble Press, $21.95.
TAT A aA raO SA TA e1 4. D a Ry as m po ef r s G adr ,a c Ke n b opy f ,A r $t 2h 4.ur Ashe and Arnold
5. Wild Women Don’t Wear No Blues: Black
Women Writers on Love, Men & Sex edited by
Marita Golden, Doubleday, $22.50.
* Also available in paperback editions. o
Volume 16 Number 4
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:14 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
By Roz Warren been having a kind of difficult day...my inner child
threw up on my higher power.”)
Hothead Paisan: Homicidal Lesbian Terrorist Men! Ha! Cartoons by Stephanie Piro (Laugh
(Cleis, $12.95, 0-939416-73-5), cartoonist Diane Lines Press, $7.50, 0-9632526-2-3) collects the best of
DiMassa’s magnificent saga of one gal’s never-end- this popular artist's single panel cartoons about life,
ing battle with the patriarchy, is finally available in love and romance, many of which have graced the
book form. Included is all the material found in the pages of Ms, Glamour, Women’s Glibber and What is
first ten Hothead ‘zines, plus incendiary new
adventures unavailable elsewhere, along with a
moving essay by the cartoonist. Another hot new
book from Cleis is Rubyfruit Mountain ($9.95, 0-
939416-74-3), the third (and best yet!) collection of
A pan nd er l e a “ S N toa nt eal wie a' ls l s Rh ia or tp ”, cp ao rl ti ot oic na sl .ly savvy, single- E FWQOURHA A LWT O RA MIBGEOHNUT T S ? m ||)
Also brand new is Alison Bechdel’s Spawn of TH EA W D,E A CL'MON
Dykes to Watch Out For (Firebrand, $8.95, 1-56341- | SON E
039-7), the new collection of marvelous multi-panel
strips by the Norman Rockwell of contemporary
lesbian life. Spawn brings us up to date on the lives
and times of Mo and her circle and also includes an BI MOR ET H MAONN EGYI R LM S AAT'S
excruciatingly accurate (ouch!) Birthing Adventure.
Also recommended is Stay ‘Tooned (Naiad, $9.95,
1-56280-045-0), the new collection of cartoons and
funny essays by “Lesbian Survival Hints” cartoon-
ist Rhonda Dicksion.
Lynda Barry is best known for her cartooning but
if you've read The Good Times are Killing Me (Real
Comet Press) you know she’s a terrific writer/essay-
ist as well. The Lynda Barry Experience (Gang of
Seven, $10.98, 1-882543-20-3, distributed by Inland)
is a wonderful new tape made up of funny, funky
spoken raps by this queen of smart-ass white girl of men,” 1one of Piro’s women characters confides
soul. (The “going-through-puberty” saga is unbe- to another, “it’s the reality I have problems
lievably good.) Another great audio experience is with....”). Despite the book’s title, Piro doesn’t just
Butch Fatale (Ladyslipper, $9.98), comic songwriter poke fun at guys, but covers many other topics of
Lynn Lavner’s first live performance recording, interest to women, including cats, lingerie, mother-
which includes 14 funny songs about lesbian life hood and motorcycles. Why Dogs Are Better Than
along with clever monologues and stage patter (“I’ve Men (Pocket Books, $8, 0-671-86488-2) is a very
Volume 16 Number 4 77 November 1993
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:14 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
convincing collection by Jennifer Berman, whose interested in the “herstory” of American comedy is
work has been featured in Women’s Glib and Kitty Louise Berliner’s Texas Guinan: Queen of the
Libber. For the guy’s eye view there’s King, Nightclubs (University of Texas Press, $24.95 cl, 0-
Warrior, Magician...Weenie: Contemporary Men’s 292-78111-3), a study of the life and times of this
Humor (Crossing, $12.95, 0-89594-595-9). Editor wise-cracking Material Girl of the Jazz Age.
Pete Sinclair collects essays and cartoons on the
topic of “modern guyhood” from the likes of
Garrison Keillor, Dave Barry and John Callahan.
There Goes My Baby (Andrews & McMeel,
$8.95, 0-8362-1723-3) is the new collection of Lynn Finally, two of my favorite humorists, cartoonist
Johnston’s terrific For Better or For Worse strips. Roz Chast and writer Patty Marx, have teamed up
Johnston made comic history this year by including to produce a children’s book. Now Everybody
a sympathetic and realistic gay character in a main- Really Hates Me (HarperCollins, $14, 0-06-021293-
stream comic strip. The “Lawrence Comes Out” 4), about a stubborn little girl who refuses to leave
sequence, censored by many newspapers, is includ- her room, is the kind of fun and witty book both
ed in its entirety here. Speaking of comic strip histo- children and parents can enjoy.
ry, A Century of Women Cartoonists (Kitchen
= =—~ V, Calle dR o z S e xW ? a r (Cre an rt oi os n st h be y e d Wit oo mr e nof ), W Wh oa mt e nis ’s T Gh li is b : Thing
— A Collection of Women’s Humor, Women’s
Glibber: State of the Art Women’s Humor, Kitty
Sink, $16.95, 0-87816-200-3, distributed by BP, IN), Libber: Cat Cartoons by Women, Mothers!
pioneer underground cartoonist Trina Robbins’ (Cartoons by Women) arıd The 1994 Women’s Glib
readable and illuminating new study of women in Cartoon Calendar (The Crossing Press) and of
cartooning, will be a must-buy for anyone with an W (Leen aie uto gon hs: W o Lm ien n eCa srt o on Pis rts e M so sck ). C oc Oks
interest in this topic. Also recommended to those
Check all the boxes you can and mail to FBN, [J Owned and operated by
PO Box 882554, San Francisco, CA 94188 D Reader/Bibliophile women
Name [1[]H W o mLeni'sb Srtuadriesi aTneac h erand m [Je Cno-owned and run by women
Business Name D Writer [1] Owned and operated by men P y
Address [H Bookseller
[D Publisher Bookstores — We a/so stock:
[D Periodical [D Lesbian books
City/State/Zip [1 Craftswoman [D Feminist non-fiction
Phone [O other [D Gay men's titles
[D General interest
[J One Year - $65. Check enclosed. Bookstores, Publishers and [J Leftist/political
[ [J D +O n $e 9 Y fe oa rr C- a n$7 ad0 i. a nB i l pl o su ts a. ge. [P De [ r i F Do ed mic ia nl is s t — L/s e y sour b f ioc aus n pri ma ri [ly O: Othe r[D D c hN ile drw en age/metaphysical
[J + $19 for other international postage. [JD L es biGan a& y Gay [H Back issues available — $6
[D 1/2 year - $33. D Alternative/political each or $30/year. Check
oD Sample copy - $6. [H General independent enclosed.
November 1993
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:14 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
By Tee A. Corinne tographs. Dr. Jennifer L. Howse writes in the intro-
duction that “with as many as 11 percent of the
This has been a terrific season for women artists babies in the United States born to women who
in general. Additionally, some of my significant used drugs during pregnancy, it is imperative that
past work is finding new audiences. Seven erotic we hear the stories behind the statistics. Only with
images from my book Yantras of Womanlove have
received quality reproduction in a Feminist Studies
special issue on Women’s Bodies and the State (vol.
19, #2). $10 pb, US-ISSN-0046-3663/301.412, 5+ at
40% from Feminist Studies c/o Women’s Studies,
University of Maryland, College Park MD 20742.
Lesbian Culture, ed. by Julia Penelope and
Susan Wolfe is subtitled “The Lives, Work, Ideas,
Art and Visions of Lesbians Past and Present” and
is a rich collection that includes artwork by Sudie
Rakusin, Jean Weisinger, Alison Bechdel, Kris
Kovick, JEB, me, and others. The volume is, as you
would expect from the editors, very lesbian posi-
tive. $21.95 pb,0-89594-591-6, The Crossing Press,
dist. by IN, BP, Ingram, and New Leaf.
Fragments Recalled At Eighty, the art memoirs
of Ellen H. Johnson, is a warm, funny, inspiring
book. Johnson (1910-1992) spent most of her work-
ing life teaching at Oberlin. Her favorite class was
Modern Art which became so popular that the col-
lege auditorium was needed to hold the 450 stu-
dents. She started a film series in the 1940s and visit-
ed artists in NYC where she made her teaching
slides in their studios. The rental art collection she
organized was so popular that students would
camp out all night in the dead of winter to be first in
line. $12.95 pb, 1-895640-04-0, Gallerie, IN and BP. Gorgon
Another impressive book from a woman pub- Gorgon by Laura Kaye in Lesbian Culture
lisher is When The Bough Breaks: Pregnancy and understanding can we solve the problem.” This
the Legacy of Addiction by Kira Corser and Payne book seamlessly merges art, politics, and psycholo-
Adler. Sympathetic, complex stories are told gy into a powerful social critique. $22.95 pb, 0-
through narratives, poems, and empathetic pho- 939165-19-8; $39.95 c1, 0-939165-20-1,
Volume 16 Number 4 November 1993
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:14 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Even if your bookstore never sells comic books, 8118-0357-0; $35 cl, 0-8118-0390-2, Chronicle Books.
A Century of Women Cartoonists by Trina Chronicle Books has also just brought out the
Robbins should find a delighted audience. Robbins first paperback edition of Tina Modotti: A Fragile
edited the first all-woman comic book in 1970 and Life by Mildred Constantine. Modotti (1896-1942)
co-authored Women and the Comics. In A Century of was born in Italy, came to the U.S. at 17, acted in
Women Cartoonists she gathered an impressive silent films and was lovers with a famous male
group of artists who drew images in panels which photographer from whom she learned to make
tell a story. Included are Jackie Ormes, probably the beautifully composed, humane photographs. $18.95
first published Black woman cartoonist, Dale pb, 0-8118-0502-6.
Messick who drew Brenda Starr, feminist favorites Significant Others: Creativity & Intimate
like Lynn Johnson who draws the sometimes con- Partnership, ed. by Whitney Chadwick & Isabelle
troversial For Better or Worse, and lesbian series like de Courtivron is a beautiful example of the success
Roberta Gregory's A Modern Romance, Kris Kovic’s of feminism to change the intellectual environment
in which we live. Broadly inclusive in terms of race,
ethnicity, and sexual orientation, it includes a bril-
liant essay by Louise De Salvo who writes that
Virginia Woolf and Vita Sackville-West “became
lovers at Long Barn on December 18, 1925” and
goes on to discuss the affect each had on the other's
work. This is typical of the level of honesty and
detailed attention the thirteen essayists bring to
their discussion of Vanessa Bell (Virginia Woolf's
artist sister), Frida Kahlo, Anais Nin, Lillian
Hellman, Lee Krasner, and others. $24.95 cl, 0-500-
01566-X, Thames and Hudson.
Voices of Freedom: Polish Women Artists and
Wonder Woman as drawn by Mary Wilshire the Avant-Garde offers two centuries of women’s art
in A Century of Women Cartoonist. careers set within an overview of Polish history. It
Lesbian Agenda for Attitude, and Alison Bechdel’s includes the work of Tamara de Lempicka and
Dykes to Watch Out For. The informative text, photos Magdalena Abakanowiez along with many who are
of artists, and many reproductions of comics make not as well known in this country. $18.95 pb, 0-
this a pleasure to browse or read cover to cover. 940979-19-5, dist. by the National Museum of Women
$16.95 pb, 0-87816-200-3, Kitchen Sink Press, dist. in the Arts Museum Shop, 1250 New York Ave. NW,
by IN, BP, Baker & Taylor, and Ingram. Washington DC 20005, 1-4 at 20%, 5+ at 40%.
You get a lot of book for your money in Imogen Cara, Chicano Art: Resistance and Affirmation,
Cunningham: Ideas without End, A Life in subtitled An Interpretive Exhibition of the Chicano
Photographs by Richard Lorenz. There is a fine nar- Art Movement, 1965-1985, edited by Richard
rative reconstructing the events and influences Griswold del Castillo, Teresa McKenna, and
which marked her life (1883-1976) and a wealth of Yvonne Yarbro-Bejarano, is a large (374 pp.),
photographs including a nude self-portrait taken impressive compilation of essays and images. I
around 1906 when she was twenty-three years old. wish the several lesbians in the volume could have
There are the patterned studies of plants and flow- been identified. Funding considerations and NEA
ers, city scenes, character studies and portraits of controversies probably affected the choice of what
famous women like Gertrude Stein, Frida Kahlo, to say and what to leave unsaid. This book is bril-
and Muriel Rukeyser; also featured are pho- liant in laying a groundwork of history and images
tographs of nude men and women including an and will become a major reference work. $35 pb, 0-
astonishing pregnant figure from 1959 and an 943739-15-2; $50 cl, 0-943739-16-0, University of
elderly tattooed woman from 1976. $22.95 pb, 0- Arizona Press, dist. by IN and BP. O
November 1993
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:14 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
By Richard Labonte are available from Bookpeople or Last Gasp (2180
A Different Light Bookstore, San Francisco Bryant St., San Francisco CA 94110. 1-800-366- 5121;
40% for 10 books or 50 comics); Last Gasp also dis-
Sometimes, there’s just no time: so this month, tributes the six-issue Tales of the Closet series,
the column is shorter than usual. The booksellers wonderful coming-out tales for teens published by
among you will sympathize, I hope, when you the Hetrick-Martin Institute, 401 West St., New
| know that my deadline for this issue fell on the York NY 10014.
` same day as our annual year-end physical invento-
ry; and the Bay Area residents among you will
sympathize, I hope, when you know that the grippe
which felled San Francisco this fall hit me, too. There’s also a magazine must for fans of the
Sniff. funny: it’s Diseased Pariah News, better known as
For a couple of issues now, I've been promising DPN. A sixth issue has just appeared, available
| an overview of titles drawn from a humor section. direct from DPN, c/o Men’s Support Center, PO
When I actually looked at a listing of male-oriented Box 30564, Oakland CA 94604, and perhaps by now
material, though, I realized that the Alison from Inland and Bookpeople.
Bechdels, Hothead Paisans, Kris Kovicks and Roz And, if I may, a parochial plug: Dan Seitler, the
Warrens — to name just a few — have made the buyer at A Different Light in New York, has pub-
humor section a much more interesting place, for lished two palm-sized booklets, Fagz and Fagz Jr.,
the most part, than have their male counterparts. smart and funny cartoon stories about young gay
Still, there are a few fine wits among men. A girls and boys in the Big Apple. You can request a
bestseller last year (fiscal-yearly speaking, Oct. 1, sample from 548 Hudson Street, NY, NY 10014.
1992 to Sept. 30, 1993) was the cartoon work in The Speaking of humor: the anthology I'm editing
Mostly Unfabulous Social Life of Ethan Green by for Alyson Publications, Tickled Pink, won’t be out
Eric Orner (St. Martin’s, $8.95 pb, 0-312-07625-5); this fall after all — but thanks for a nice plug in the
also popular was the wry writing in Eric Marcus’s last issue of FBN. A combination of bookstore busy-
Expect the Worst You Won’t Be Disappointed ness (including a fire in the SF store), personal
(HarperCollins, $8, 0-06-250997-7). health maintenance (requiring a few trips to
Two other cartoon-strip titles to consider are Canada: we love that single-payer system), and the
Rupert Kinnard’s BB & the Diva (Alyson, $6.95 pb, loss of many of the manuscripts by a photocopy
1-55583-134-6), featuring the adventures of a Black shop, all pushed completion way past the appoint-
gay superhero, and Michael Wilhoite’s Now For ed deadline. Look for the anthology next year.
My Next Trick (Alyson, $4.95 pb, 1-55583-101-X). Year-end inventory also means that our com-
Also worth stocking are the Gay Comix series, puter consolidates twelve months worth of sales
currently being edited by Andy Mangels, who is as history, so I thought it would be interesting to
happy championing the work of lesbian artists as extract information on genre sales (mystery and sci-
he is the work of gay men. The most recent issue is ence fiction), where crossover book buying is most
#19, an all-Bechdel collection; most issues after #10 common — women who love mysteries have long
Volume 16 Number 4 November 1993
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:14 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Leading the list was The Unfinished by the late
Jay B. Laws, an AIDS-related horror read. It was
E r loving Wwe Ce' lM ebrao te o tn he) f Do all vow ided Gby e r L ra ow l’ ds ’ sf i r Sst e a n so ov ne l, f S ote ra m S, l aan ud g h t th een r , b y Jeffrey
Cycles with McMahon's Vampires Anonymous, Frank
We'MOoon ‘94: Robinson's The Dark Beyond the Stars, Gerrold’s
A Matter for Men, William Gibson’s Virtual Light,
a multicultural, Gerrold’s Day for Damnation, John Varley’s Steel
astrological moon Beach and Empath by Michael B. Holloway. The
; calendar and Gerrold books are a tad violent, but the two by
s appointment Dook Laws, McMahon's, Varley’s and Robinson's would
interwoven with fit onto a science fiction shelf, as would Holloway’s
effort — the first gay-targeted novel from a primari-
art and Writings ly lesbian press (Paradigm).
through the 13 Mysteries and science fiction are vital categories
MOONS. for their respective fans; coming out titles are vital
for the women and men, the boys and the girls,
G NAIA RNYTN MCS V FOCR L W EOSMY N re cycled / p a5 1 Ip⁄ SB4 e N" r : X . 0 - 95 5" $ 1, 0 1 62 61 3 16 - 5. p 35ag .es, w st ehh le lo ei r r sc o l im (v mee s a . n i y n S t o o o f h o e u trr he ’ es ms t a o r me lis es nt il tno io ogk n i eon dfg b af e o f pr oa r s et t ,h e y b e us a tt r o ’sr c ei e rbs -e s o t-f
tainly worth emphasizing again — I refer to titles
W Mother Tongue Ink S3 like these as part of the “eternal backlist”).
3701058E Snuffin Rd. Estacada, OR 97023 (503) 630-7545 Leading the list for us was Betty Fairchild’s
Now That You Know (HBJ, $8.95 pb, 0-15-667601-
read Joseph Hansen, more recently have picked up X), followed by two John Preston titles, A Member
on Michael Nava; and men buy a lot of Katherine of the Family (due this winter from Plume in
Forrest and Sarah Dreher, Marion Zimmer Bradley paper) and Hometowns (Plume, $11 0-452-26855-9),
and Mercedes Lackey. both containing essays by men about, respectively,
So here’s a list of the top ten men’s mystery their assorted forms of family and the places they
titles for the twelve months ending Sept. 30th: call home. Eric Marcus’s lively, basic Is It a Choice?
Howtown by Michael Nava, Final Atonement by (HarperCollins, $10 pb, 0-06-250664-1), containing
Steve Johnson, The Hidden Law by Nava (paper- his answers to several hundred questions he was
back due in early 1994), Roman Blood by Steve asked by non-gays during his book tours, was a
Saylor, Third Man Out by Richard Stevenson, Love solid seller, followed by five more “elders” in the
You to Death by Grant Michaels, Golden Boy by coming out area — Beyond Acceptance by Melanie
Nava, Little Death by Nava, False Confessions by Griffin (St. Martin’s, $9.95 pb, 0-312-04993-5);
Johnson and A Country of Old Men by Joseph Loving Someone Gay by Don Clark (Celestial,
Hansen (the last in his long-running Dave $9.95 pb, 0-89087-505-7); Coming Out: An Act of
Brandstetter series). Every one is a good read, Love by Rob Eichberg (Penguin, $12 pb, 0-452-
though Johnson’s books are better-plotted than 26685-8); The Best Little Boy in the World by John
written; and certainly Nava’s books are the core of Reid (Ballantine, $9 pb, 0-345-38176-9); and
any interesting gay-mystery collection. Positively Gay by Betty Berzon (Celestial, $11.95
By the way, the top ten gay mysteries were pb, -676-2).
culled from the top 37 mysteries on our computer I hope that the new titles I listed in the past few
listing of last-year sales: mysteries by women con- issues were of some help — and they should be arriv-
tinue to dominate the field. Much the same situa- ing by now. Next issue, due after the seasonal busi-
tion exists in science fiction, where it took 32 titles ness, will contain interesting 1994 titles and some-
to find a male-SF top ten. thing suitable to the theme of the Jan-Feb FBN. O
82
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:14 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
LE
<L
Hurray! I just left my full-time job as arts/com- October. Expected in spring 1994 are Flight from
munity editor for a weekly newspaper, and I am Neveryon and The Bridge of Lost Desire, along
returning to more lucrative, less strenuous free- with a new collection of written interviews with
lance editing. Consequently, this column is a bit Delany, tentatively titled Silent Interviews: On
late and a bit scattered. But, here it is. Language, Race, Sex, SF, and Some Comics.
Jane Yolen’s Briar Rose, the eloquent, haunting Briefly noted: Early reviews of Patricia
fairy tale with memories of the Holocaust, won the Anthony’s second novel, Brother Termite (Harcourt
Mythopoeic Fantasy Award. The paperback ($4.99) Brace, $21.95 cl], 0-15-114422-2) — which really is
is due in November from Tor. about space aliens in the White House — are as
enthusiastic as they were for her first, Cold Allies.
Readers fascinated by women’s erotic writing
a and good “dark fantasy” (which is distinguished
from horror in ways I can never remember), might
This is no surprise to anyone who's read check out Making Love (Dell Abyss, $4.99, 0-440-
and/or followed the career of Connie Willis, but 21469-6), a collaboration by Melanie Tem and
Doomsday Book (Bantam Spectra, $5.99, 0-553- Nancy Holder, in which the protagonist, Charlotte,
56073-5), her new novel, about a young history newly 40, uses dream and fantasy to explore her
grad student marooned in the England of the Black own sexuality, family history, and more. Notes one
Death co-won (with Vernor Vinge’s A Fire upon the reviewer, it’s “a candidly sexual, hotly sensual
Deep) the genre's Hugo Award in September. novel whenever the narrative demands it.”
Willis’ “Even the Queen,” perhaps the year’s most
lauded piece of short sf, won the Hugo for best At
short story. It will be included in a Bantam collec-
tion of her short fiction, Impossible Things, which
is due in January 1994. AVONOVA (MORROW)
Gaylaxicon V, a science fiction, fantasy, and Larque on the Wing by Nancy Springer. I don’t
horror convention for gay people and their friends, know much about this book (but I expect to catch up
will be held in Rockville, Maryland (a D.C. suburb), with the author at PhilCon, which will have hap-
July 15-17, 1994. Jewelle Gomez (The Gilda Stories) is pened by the time you read this), except that
the guest of honor, Tom Howell the artist guest of Springer is one of my favorite fantasy writers and
honor, and Forrest J. Ackerman the special guest. the publisher's string of adjectives look promising:
For more information, write to PO Box 656, “A moving, outrageously funny, thought-provoking,
Washington D.C. 20044. truly unique and weird fable for our times.” Jan.
Of particular interest to gay bookstores: the
University of New England Press is reprinting BAEN BOOKS
Samuel R. Delany's Neveryon Books, starting with Mirror Dance by Lois McMaster Bujold. The
Neveryon and Neveryona, which were due out in newest (and first hardcover) in Bujold’s very popu-
November 1993
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:14 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termslar series about an very unusual hero: Miles wholly feminist book — with some useful ideas for
Vorkosigan, born (because of an attack on his preg- grassroots organizing. $4.99, 0-345-38289-7.
nant mother) with brittle bones and never attaining
adult height, and in a military culture that values BANTAM/SPECTRA
physical perfection above all else. Barred from A Plague of Angels by Sheri S. Tepper. High
many of the privileges customary to his high rank, praise yet again for this author, who nimbly makes
he founds an interplanetary mercenary corps. The havoc for those who would locate “fantasy” and
“science fiction” on opposite sides of a high wall.
Here she plays with archetypes — stock fantasy
a characters (including a girl named Orphan)
dwelling in a stock fantasy village — and common
books have developed a strong following among fantasy themes, like coming-of-age and the quest-
feminist readers, not only for the rare presence of a ing journey. Said Locus reviewer Gary K. Wolfe:
physically handicapped hero but especially for the “Tepper weaves together themes of ecology, tech-
boundless wit of Bujold’s writing, the inquiry into nology, psychology, and occasional feminism in a
the limits of militarism (and patriarchy), and the fine example of what science fantasy is good for.”
marvelous characters, male and female. $21 cl, 0- $21.95 c1,0-553-09513-7.
671-72210-7, Feb.
DAW BOOKS |
BALLANTINE/DEL REY Dancing Jacks by Laurie J. Marks. I haven't
Chimera by Mary Rosenblum. Rosenblum, seen this yet, but reviews indicate that it’s a “very
author of a fine first novel Drylands, about a mid- and good read” with three women protagonists, two of
far-western U.S. in the grip of drought “is emerging whom were once lovers. Marks is the author of
as the kind of writer who startles you not with daz- Delan the Mislaid and its sequels, which deal with
zling new inventions, but with haunting images care- themes of difference and race hatred. $4.99, 0-
fully built up to reveal more than you expected,” 88677-578-7. AR
writes Gary K. Wolfe of Locus. Her second novel
turns to the popular (but fascinating) theme of virtual
reality, featuring a woman protagonist and two gay
(male) major characters. $4.99, 0-345-38528-4. FIREBRAND BOOKS
The Rising of the Moon by Flynn Connolly. Forty-Three Septembers by Jewelle Gomez.
Dedicated “to freedom fighters and feminists Personal /political essays by the author of The Gilda
everywhere,” this first novel is a must-carry. Nuala Stories. $10.95, 1-56341-037-0.
Dennehy, who had to leave Ireland to pursue an
academic career in Celtic studies, returns to her PENGUIN/ROC
native country to find that things have grown much Shroud of Shadow by Gael Baudino. Third in
worse in the intervening 15 years; church and state the series about the fading of the Elves and the
have combined to deny virtually any independence power of the Inquisition (after Strands of Starlight
and Mazes of Moonlight). Here the elf Natil is shaken
Asa from broody nostalgia by a young woman who
needs her help, thus beginning a dangerous journey
in search of sanctuary. Baudino won a Lammy for
to women. A dynamic speaker who is well-versed her (unrelated) Gossamer Axe. $4.99,0-451-45294.
in the history of previous Irish rebellions, Nuala
becomes a resistance leader and catalyst in spite of TOR BOOKS
herself. The setting is rather contemporary for the Esther Friesner’s witty and wondrous
story's late 21st century date, and the “speechify- Yesterday We Saw Mermaids is coming out in
ing” tends to drag, but this is a rousing, inspiring, Continued on page 119
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:14 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
By Nan Cinnater Heaven Tree Trilogy by Edith Pargeter, a.k.a. Ellis
Now Voyager, Provincetown Peters. Warner has been packaging Peters’
medieval mysteries as various gift books, but these
As you read this, you will probably be in the are three 12th-century historical novels that are not
throes of holiday bookselling madness. Since I live mysteries. Even Peters’ devoted fans don’t neces-
in a summer resort town, my bookselling year runs sarily go for her non-mystery novels. Warner,
counter to almost everyone’s. I write this in $24.95 c1, 0-446-51708-9.
October, in the throes of our last really busy week Simplicity is the watchword in Quaker Silence
of the year (made possible by Provincetown’s by Irene Allen (Villard, $17 cl, 0-679-41414-2) and
Women Innkeepers, who created the phenomenal its sequel, Quaker Witness (Villard, $18 cl, 0-679-
Women’s Week, bringing thousands of women to 41415-0, Dec.), both in hardcover. Featuring
town and effectively extending Provincetown’s sea- Elizabeth Elliot, elderly clerk of the Quaker
son into mid-October). In December, I will be keep- Meeting House in Cambridge, Massachusettes,
ing short hours at the store, sleeping late, going these are gentle, thoughtful, Christie-style myster-
home early and catching up on all my reading. ies. It’s the Quaker background that gives them
Also making almost no money, in case you're get- more substance than the average “cozy.”
ting jealous. But I am trying to keep in mind that
for most of you this is the big gift/book-buying
season. So this column is a grab bag of everything I
thought might be of interest, with lots more hard-
covers than usual. Here’s to fabulous holiday sales!
For the holidays, you shouldn't miss the new
Mrs. Pollifax, which appeared in Oct.: Mrs. Pollifax
and the Second Thief by Dorothy Gilman. In case
you've been on the moon, Mrs. P. is a comfy-cozy, For similar reasons, you may be interested in
but very canny, widowed CIA agent. There’s an the Mennonite heroine of Too Many Crooks Spoil
odd, almost retro-feminist appeal to the way she the Broth by Tamar Myers. Magdalena Yoder is
outsmarts all the boys while remaining quite tradi- the owner of a bed-and-breakfast, whose two
tional herself. This one takes place in Sicily and groups of weekend guests turn out to be deer
includes a feisty, young, female CIA agent on the hunters and vegetarian animal-rights activists.
track of a document signed by Julius Caesar Subtitled “A Pennsylvania Dutch Mystery with
(Doubleday, $20 cl, 0-385-47109-2). Also good for Recipes,” this may be too cute, but (according to
holiday sales, already out, is Ruth Rendell's The the catalogue) the Mennonite stuff is authentic and
Crocodile Bird about obsessive mother-daughter the author knows the territory. Doubleday, $17 cl,
love. Rendell is brilliant at this very creepy psycho- 0-385-47139-4, Jan.
logical suspense and her fans love it (Harper, $20 Track of the Cat by Nevada Barr is a hardcover
cl, 0-597-59576-1). Watch out, though, for The first mystery that you may be able to hand-sell,
Volume 16 Number 4 85 November 1993
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:14 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
especially to readers who remember Barr's lesbian there's more to the murder of a young woman than
Western, Bittersweet. This has a lesbian sub-plot but random robbery /homicide. Kijewski is strong on
a non-gay heroine, West Texas park ranger Anna character (perhaps more so than plot) and she obvi-
Pigeon. Another park ranger has apparently been ously knows about bartending. In fact, the best
killed by a mountain lion, and Anna becomes parts of the book are when the lady slings the
involved in order to prevent the unnecessary booze. The new hardcover, Wild Kat, is due from
slaughter of cougars. Full of details about the desert Doubleday in February.
ecology and wilderness survival techniques, it has a Harper has been re-issuing Dorothy Sayers’
front-cover blurb from Tony Hillerman (Putnam, mysteries in trade paper, and the one that is indis-
$19.95 cl, 0-399-13824-2). Possibly a rip-off, but pensable to every feminist bookstore is Gaudy
probably an innocent case of two writers with the Night ($8, 0-06-092392-X), written in 1936. Using
same good idea, there's a paperback original by the persona of her alter-ego, fictional mystery
Elizabeth Quinn that has a plot similar to Barr's writer Harriet Vane, Sayers takes on class, gender,
book called Murder Most Grizzly. This one takes women’s education, and the dismal prospects for
place in Alaska, and involves an apparent attack by modern heterosexual romance. Lord Peter makes
a grizzly bear, with a heroine who's an investigator only a token appearance. Have His Carcase ($8, 0-
for the “Wild America Society.” Pocket, $4.99, 0- 06-092391-1) also features Harriet Vane, who solves
671-74990-0, Dec. the mystery in an equal partnership with Lord
Peter. Along with Strong Poison, which introduced
Harriet Vane (and some of her lesbian friends), they
t make a fascinating feminist trilogy.
Coming soon in trade paper, The Saturday
Morning Murder by Batya Gur, translated by
For a really easy sell, try Dying for Chocolate Dalya Bilu (Harper, $8, 0-06-099508-4, Nov.) was an
by Diane Mott Davidson, sequel to Catering to Israeli bestseller that received major critical atten-
Nobody. This is a very suburan series about an ama- tion when it appeared in hardcover in the U.S. last
teur sleuth who's a divorced housewife/ caterer and year. Subtitled “A Psychoanalytic Case,” it concerns
her pre-teen son, but both books really sell — the the murder of a top woman analyst at the Jerusalem
first on the basis of a rare cover blurb from Sue Psychoanalytic Society, investigated by Chief
Grafton, the second on the title alone, apparently. Inspector Michael Ohayon. Ohayon is back in The
Bantam, $4.99, 0-553-56024-7. Literary Murder: A Critical Case (Harper, $20 c|, 0-
Kat Colorado is one of the better contenders in 06-019023-X, Nov.), in which he investigates the
the field of tough women private eyes, and this murder of a prominent poet/professor. Something
could be her year. (If so, it’s good to know that different for the conoisseur.
author Karen Kijewski’s name is pronounced like
the Russian city: Kiev-ski.) The first book in the
series, Katwalk (Avon, $4.99, 5-551-48509-9, Dec.),
ww io tn h s te hv ee r a sl e c oaw nda r d bs o, o ka ,n d K ai tt a’s p u b lte i n (Ag v or ne ,i s s $u 4e .d 9 9 ,a l o 5n -g 551- ù U i
47351-1, Dec.). Third in the series, Kats Cradle, is
already in print in paper from Bantam. When her A couple of unknowns you may want to try: A
fourth book, Copy Kat (Bantam, $4.99, 0-553-29883- World the Color of Salt by Noreen Ayres (Avon,
6, Dec.), appears in paper, Kijewski will probably $4.99, 0-380-71571-6) features a forensic police inves-
hit the critical mass which means a lot of readers tigator who is a former stripper. Dead Time by
will discover her at the same time. Kat is a Eleanor Taylor Bland (Signet, $4.99, 0-451-40427-0) is
Sacramento private eye with very few gimmicks a police procedural featuring an African-American
(other than that damn name). In Copy Kat she goes cop who's also a widowed mother, stuck with a diffi-
undercover as a bartender in a resort town to see if cult white partner. Cover blurb by Sara Paretsky.
November 1993 Volume 16 Number 4
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:14 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Every Crooked Nanny by Kathy Trocheck
introduces Julia Callahan Garrity, ex-cop, ex-pri-
vate eye, who now runs a cleaning service in
Atlanta. While working for an ex-sorority sister, she Little book pins
is hired to trace the family nanny, who disappeared
with jewels and valuable documents. (Perhaps
there should be a special mystery award for best Handmade, real, little books
title.) Harper, $4.50, 0-06-109170-7, Dec. Color and patterns vary.
$4.00 wholesale
Minimum order: 1 dozen
Before she broke out with her Edgar-winning pre-paid & we pay the shipping
series about a New Orleans cop, Julie Smith wrote a B N
somewhat goofier, light-hearted series about a San
Francisco attorney named Rebecca Schwartz. New
in this series is Other People’s Skeletons (Ivy, $4.99,
` 0-8041-1086-7) in which Rebecca defends a friend Mail to: Strong Bindery,
| who was framed for the murder of a theater critic. 2026 Murray Hill Rd. #201
| The rest of the series has been re-issued by Ivy (and Cleve. Hts., OH 44106
| they all sell quite well for us): Dead in the Water
($4.99, 0-8041-9804-7), Death Turns a Trick ($3.99,
' 0-8041-9805-5), The Sourdough Wars ($4.99, 0-8041- huskies!) solve the murder of a pet shop owner.
9807-1), and Tourist Trap ($4.99, 0-8041-9806-3). Bantam, $4.99, 0-553-29886-0, Jan.
Another author whose recent breakout success After the holidays, there are stili a few bright
might return readers to her earlier series is Sharyn spots in the book doldrums, notably the paper edi-
McCrumb. She, too, wrote a somewhat goofy, tion of The Children of Men by P.D. James
screwball-comic series; in this case, the sleuth is an (Warner, $6.50, 0-446-36462-2, Feb.), a futuristic
archaeologist, Elizabeth MacPherson. In thriller of feminist interest. Also in February, we'll
MacPherson’s Lament, seventh in the series, have The Snake, The Crocodile, and The Dog by
Elizabeth returns to her Southern (gothic) home to Elizabeth Peters (Warner, $5.99, 0-446-36478-9).
| solve a mystery dating back to the Civil War. Sequel to The Last Camel Died at Noon, this is the lat-
| Ballantine, $5.99, 0-3345-38474-1, Dec. est in the tongue-in-cheek adventures of Victorian
Lillian O'Donnell is an old hand at the woman Egyptologist Amanda Peabody: great, light-weight,
cop police procedural, and Lt. Norah Mulcahaney comic entertainments that feminists can love with-
| of the NYPD is still one of the best. Norah turns a out apology. In this one, Amanda rescues her hus-
fictional 40 as she deals with a serial killer and a band from kidnappers.
threatened movie star in O’'Donnell’s latest, As noted in my last column, I was crazy about
Pushover. Fawcett, $4.99, 0-449-22152-0. Child of Silence by Abigail Padgett which will
The “dog lover's” series by Susan Conant is def- appear in paper in February (Mysterious, $4.99, 0-
initely not simply the canine equivalent of all those 446-40184-6). Padgett’s new hardcover, Strawgirl
light-weight cat mysteries. Conant really knows the (Mysterious, $18.95 cl, 0-89296-489-8, Feb.), contin-
| dog world, and her books are a pleasant mix of sub- ues the adventures of Bo Bradley, the child abuse
stantive information and nicely plotted suspense. In investigator who suffers from manic-depressive ill-
Bloodlines Cambridge-based writer Holly Winter neassb, tuhiss teim.e in vIes tig atcinag napp'atren t cwult aritiutal. O
and her two Alaskan malamutes (don’t call them
Volume 16 Number 4 87 November 1993
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:14 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
NEW AT BOOKPEOPLE....
Bookpeople is proud to announce that we are carrying the sacred sculpture of the
Goddess from Star River Productions. All reproductions are sculpted by artist Nancy Blair.
Each sculpture is expertly molded, cast and hand finished to create a texture and color
as close as possible to tthe original artifact. A descriptive biography card is included with
each reproduction. We are offering 13 scuptures. Here are 3 explained in detail...
The Willendorf Goddess
$32.00, BPSN: U930928074
One of the oldest sculptures of a
human form yet discovered, she
represents the abundance, bulk
‘ and stability of Mother Earth.
Nile River Goddess
$46.00, BPSN: U930929004
From Ancient Egypt, the Nile River Goddess celebrates the power of
transformation, lifting her arms joyously to the cycling moon.
Since 197 1, Bookpeople has been committed to the continued success of the independent
bookseller and publisher. We are proud to be your source of over 35,000 books, audio
& video cassettes, and magazines from over 2,500 independent and trade presses.
BOOKPEOPLE tnez tiatre
November 1993 88 Volume 16 Number 4
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:14 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Women’s Music
By Cathy Andrews printed lyrics of each song to help place it in its
intended context. This is a strong addition to the
Looking for great music for your store this fall? ranks of music dealing with recovery. Lui is very
Here are some detailed reviews and some brief excited that this release will be available through
overviews of hot new releases. This is also a great women’s bookstores, reaching the audience she had
time to stock up on seasonal favorites like Venus in mind when she recorded this very personal pro-
Envy/ I'll Be A Homo For Christmas. ject. Molly Gamblin Music 1001; Tape & CD.
The Holy Ground, Mary Black. Mary Black’s
clear crystal voice is an instrument of uncommon
beauty and expressiveness. Her gifts as an inter-
preter of both folk and contemporary material have
made her a major recording artist in her native
Ireland. In August she was featured on the cover of
Billboard in a story hailing her as “a firm favorite to
join the heavy-hitting ranks of such (Irish) artists as
Enya, Sinead O'Connor, and Clannad's Maire
Brennan...” She has tapped into a rich vein of con-
temporary material by great Irish songwriters like
Noel Brazil, as well as Americans like John
Gorka. The especially good news is that this prod-
uct is now available to distributors without going
through one of the major labels, which means the
prices for stores are very reasonable. It should be
noted, as well, that much of Mary’s back catalog is
now available at domestic prices. One of her best
older titles, By The Time It Gets Dark, will be re-
_ | p r ue sl he .a s e Ad l s oi ,n ke ea er ply a n9 4 , e y w e i t oh u t a f s ou rb s Ata n Wtia ol m p anr 'o sm Hot ei ao rn ta ,l a The Best Of Djur Djura—the Voice Of
compilation of Irish women singers featuring Mary Silence, Djur Djura. “We sing aloud what our
and many other outstanding singers. Gift Horse mothers hummed under their breath.” Following
10010; Tape & CD. Zap Mama, in Luaka Bop’s cross-cultural Afropea
Moondancer, Lui Collins. New England-based series, this collection is the Algerian /French ensem-
folksinger Lui Collins has just released a special ble Djur Djura’s finest work. The group's founder
project focusing on abuse and recovery. While each and focal point is Algerian-born vocalist Djura.
of the songs on the album stands on its own, they Imprisoned and beaten by her family for pursuing |
| are sequenced communicatively, flowing through a career as a filmmaker, Djura eventually went on
the recovery steps of remembrance, anger, and res- to make three documentary films and establish a
olution. Lui has included a sentence or two with the singing career in Europe. Her story reads like some-
Volume 16 Number 4 89 November 1993
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:14 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
fashioned a soundtrack that reflects the spirit of the
film’s 1970s setting. The album features both instru-
mental score and six new vocal performances. The
material is all newly composed, with the exception
of “Don’t Be A Lemming Polka,” a showstopper
from k.d.’s Reclines days, not previously recorded.
The film opens in November. While it is not clear
how k.d.’s audience will react to this release over
the long-term, initial sales will likely be very strong.
Sire 45433; Tape & CD.
Angels Running Patty Larkin. For over a decade,
Patty Larkin has been a favorite on the nationwide
“urban folk” circuit and a rising star on her home turf
of New England. She is steadily building a national
Serenity following in the wake of her last album, Tango. Her
appearances at a variety of folk and women’s festi-
OgOrKeINegt i OnUgT Wcae r adres d efliogrht e dt htoe b er oofmfearnintg i cou r w foirmst a snet. o fT hteense vals have been well-received. Patty's expert guitar
original hand tinted black and white photographs playing (acoustic & electric) and vivid song-poems
print as 5x7 cards that are blank inside. They are are supported by Mary-Chapin Carpenter and The
printed on recycled paper with recycled envelopes. Story on backing vocals, John Leventhal on guitar,
Call or write for a free wholesale sample package: and Glen Velez & Bashiri Johnson on percussion.
1-800-988-B-OUT (1-800-988-2688) Angels Running captures the intimacy, emotion, and
PO BOX 66433 + SCOTTS VALLEY » CA » 95067-6433 humor that have made her live performances so stun-
ning. Her literate, thoughtful and thought-provoking
thing out of a feminist novel. She lives in France, lyrics put her a cut above the ordinary. Highstreet
where her autobiography has sold more than 10318; Tape & CD.
100,000 copies. Her music blends twining layers of
vocals over flashing percussion and a blend of
Eastern and Western instruments. Her words offer
a profoundly emotional message of awareness and
hope. Luaka Bop plans to do a promotional mailing
to feminist bookstores, similar to the one they did
around Zap Mama. Luaka Bop LUAKA 45211;
Tape, $11.98 list; CD-O.
Through The Looking Glass, Eliza Gilkyson.
Her voice carries echoes of Carole King, or perhaps
Joni Mitchel], or... suffice it to say that her voice has
its own fascination. The lyrics are imagery-laden
and diverse; pagan imagery mixes with contempo-
rary concerns, and the songs range from catchy pop-
rock sounds to solid ballads. If you haven’t explored
Eliza Gilkyson’s music before, this is a perfect Heartstreams,Musica Femina. The fourth
opportunity. Private Music 2109; Tape & CD. recording from this imaginative guitar-flute duo
Even Cowgirls Get The Blues Soundtrack,k.d. encompasses many styles, drawing on Janna
lang. Tom Robbin’s much-loved comic fable about MacAuslan and Kristen Aspen’s background in
freedom of movement comes to the big screen this both classical and folk genres. Unlike previous
fall, with Uma Thurman in the lead role. Working recordings which were treasures from older, some-
with long-time collaborator Ben Mink, k.d. has times forgotten women composers or newly com-
November 1993 90
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:14 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
missioned works, all compositions were written by college towns or where there is a progressive radio
Janna and Kristen themselves. They include “Open station. Rykodisc 10256; Tape & CD.
Door,” a piece about the fear and elation of “com-
ing out of the closet,” “Scottish Suite,” a wonderful Briefly: Women’s, Kid’s, World, Men’s, and More.
piece which celebrates Janna’s Scottish ancestry, Out And About, Cherish The Ladies. This
“Blochsberg,” a tribute to women healers who were immensely talented all-woman ensemble dazzles
burned as witches, and “Apryl Toye,” a set of on this, their second album. Instrumentally, they’ve
themes and variations in a Renaissance dance style.
The entire album reflects the joys and struggles of
nurturing loving relationships with our selves, our
community, and the Earth. This works well for
instore play. Lilac Recordings #4; Tape & CD.
If The World Were My Lover, Libby Roderick.
If there's anyone out there who hasn't heard about
Libby Roderick, now is a perfect time to jump on
the bandwagon. Roderick is an Alaska-based
singer-songwriter who crafts some of the sweetest,
most astute songs today. Many have become
favorites with women’s choruses, and for good rea-
son. There are songs about empowerment, songs
| about our impact on the environment and hopes for never sounded better, and the songs, led by Cathie
change, those that pointedly skewer the pretensions Ryan’s gorgeous voice, are memorable. Jigs,
` of the mighty (or the overly comfortable), and those waltzes, polkas, strathspeys, reels, a slide, and a
| that deftly and disarmingļly tell tales of daily life pair of Cape Breton reels round out the tunes.
| and its tragedies and triumphs. Her newest record- Green Linnet 1134; Tape & CD.
` ing isa strong addition to her body of work. Libby Yes I Am, Melissa Etheridge. Melissa wanted
has proven to be a classic example of “If you play it, this studio recording to capture the immediacy of a
they will buy.” Bookstores have helped build a fol- live show. The rock and roll edge is clear and unob-
lowing for this talented and dedicated woman structed. Island 848660; Tape & CD.
through conscientious instore play. Turtle Island Ancient Mother, Robert Gass, On Wings of
1003; Tape & CD. Song, & Guests. The spirit of the Great Goddess
Born To Choose,Various Artists. This innova- comes to life as traditional female singers, priest-
tive project, a collaboration between Rykodisc and esses and shamans from Celtic, African American
industry trade magazines, CMJ and HITS, is a com- Yoruba, Hawaiian, East Indian, Hungarian and
` pilation album that will benefit pro-choice groups Native American traditions are joined by the
including NARAL (National Abortion Rights Action renowned On Wings of Song singers. Guests
League). It features rare and unreleased tracks by include Kay Gardner, Nurudafina Pili Abena, Z
Cowboy Junkies, Helmet, Megadeath, Mekons, Budapest and Brooke Medicine Eagle. Spring Hill
` NRBQ, Pavement, REM with Natalie Merchant, 1017; Tape & CD.
Soundgarden, Sugar, Mathew Sweet, John Trudell, The MCA Years—A Retrospective, Nanci
Tom Waits, and Lucinda Williams. The deluxe pack- Griffith. This first ever collection of her greatest hits
age features liner notes by legendary rock and cul- includes many tracks that brought success to such
ture critic Ellen Willis, artwork by noted feminist artists as Suzy Boggus, Mary-Chapin Carpenter,
artists, and lots of updated factual information Kathy Mattea and Bette Midler, and ushered
regarding a woman’s right to choose. While this is Griffith from the coffeehouse circuit to prestigious
not necessarily even close to “women’s music,” it venues like Carnegie Hall. MCA 10914; Tape & CD.
supports a cause dear to many women. It is worth Live At The Cactus Cafe, Christine Lavin.
keeping in mind, as requests for it may spring up in Recorded live in Austin, Christine is shown at her
Volume 16 Number 4 November 1993
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:14 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
very best: a dynamic set of material, with Christine in the spring. Aural Gratification #21; Tape & CD.
at her liveliest, funniest, and most spontaneously The Wave: Ecstatic Dance For Body & Soul,
“on” with the audience. Philo 1159; Tape & CD. Gabrielle Roth. This video provides the first chance
Plantation Lullabies, Me’Shell NdegeOcello. for people to do Gabrielle's acclaimed rhythm work
Smashing through the walls separating funk, hip- at home with her guidance. The percussive beat
hop, R&B and jazz, Me’Shell NdegeOcello (pro- that pervades the whole tape is infectious, drawing
nounced N-day-gay-O-cello) is a stunning new the user into the dance. The explanations of
voice. On her debut, she’s created what she calls Gabrielle’s style are clearly illustrated by the group
“Broken Hearted Revolutionary Love Songs.” She of participants. Individual styles are encouraged.
writes, arranges, raps, sings, and plays most of the The professional quality of this tape makes it a use-
instruments. This is clearly a new artist worth keep- ful resource for Gabrielle's fans and those who
ing an eye on. Maverick 45333; Tape & CD. enjoy dance. Raven Recordings; VHS only.
Walk The Dog & Light The Light, Laura Nyro. Out In The Country, Doug Stevens & The
Laura is recognized as one of the premier American Outband. The only openly gay country band is
singer/songwriters. Her new release features seven made up of four lesbians and two gay men. Doug
new originals, as well as covers of tunes by Curtis Stevens fronts the band, which includes percussion
Mayfield, Phil Spector, and Pauling-Bass. Columbia wiz Nydia “Liberty” Mata. Lyrics are very out.
52411; Tape & CD. Still On The Journey, Sweet Honey in the Rock.
Back To The Other World?, Queer Conscience Sweet Honey is celebrating their 20th anniversary,
with Rick Cresswell. The idea behind Queer and this new album is perhaps their finest collec-
Conscience has been to make music that deals with tion to date. They continue to push the boundaries
the issues of gays, lesbians, and bisexuals, and of a cappella choral music, singing a wide range of
encourages personal growth, and support of “The African American song styles, including blues, bal-
Movement.” Current topics such as outing, gays in lads, hymns, and rap. Doubleday/Anchor is pub-
the military, queer role models, and being visibly lishing a retrospective on Sweet Honey entitled
“out” are just a few of the topics. Scream Sync #2; “We Who Believe in Freedom,” due in November.
Tape only. Earthbeat 42536; Tape & CD.
Rhodesongs, Happy Rhodes. With a voice often Chants For The Queen Of Heaven, Nancy
compared to Kate Bush and Annie Lennox, Happy Vedder-Shults. This outstanding release is filled
Rhodes has a dedicated fan base. This release grew with the music of women and their goddesses from
out of a 5-song CD that was serviced to radio stations Tibet, Brazil, India, Hawaii, Korea, S. Africa, and
A PL
(310) 804-3609
November 1993 92
Volume 16 Number 4
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:14 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
| Available in November the U.S. Nancy's powerful, expressive voice is sup-
ported by an ensemble of nine women and musi-
cians including Anne Fraioli from Sotavento and
Jim Yockey (Jennifer Berezan). Mama’s Minstrel
THE Music MAMA 1; Tape; $9.98 list.
ISLAND
Za collection of stories by.
W AN W by t=
/ Ba Atlay.a Weinbaum_ n Driving Home, Cheryl Wheeler. Who’s the best
singer-songwriter working today? When the list of
names comes to mind, Cheryl Wheeler is sure to be
included. With a finely-tuned ability to describe
both the world and the human condition, her
newest album is a long-awaited gem. Philo 1152;
Tape & CD.
The World Sings Goodnight, Various Artists.
Lullabies are common to almost every culture in the
world. This recording spans cultures and continents
as 33 different people sing lullabies from their native
culture. Countries included are Austria, Nepal,
Algeria, the US, Poland, Canada, Romania, and
many, many more. The soothing, calming effect of
the songs eliminates any language barrier. Primarily
women’s voices. Silver Wave 803; Tape only.
Upcoming releases:
New releases are expected from Loreena
McKennitt, Casselberry-Dupree, Rory Block, Susan
$91.9576 p. pA H 19e 9r 4r .i c k B, a r ban d B a rB ta or nr e t wt i l& l hS am veit h a i nn e w t h ae l b f ui mrs t i nhalf of
November, as will Fred Small, and Koko Taylor.
paperback Expect something from Carrie Newcomer, release
ISBN: 1-878533-10-X date in ‘94 yet to be determined. Cheryl Wheeler's
Clothespin Fever Press N worndeerflule alabusm e Cidrcle s & i Anrrow s is‘ 9 to 4 be. re- O
Volume 16 Number 4 93 November 1993
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:14 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsTe aS
Distributed by Inbook 800-243-0138
deinstgs
Lesbians at Midlife: The Creative Transition is an anthology by and about
lesbians from 40 to 60, with personal stories, poems, and insightful research. “This path-
breaking collection brings visibility to another hidden chapter in lesbians’ lives, giving us
diverse voices on various aspects of midlife transition. Lesbians at Midlife will move you
” to laughter and tears, to nods of recognition and moments of surprise, and then will leave
you thinking, better prepared, and less lonely wherever you are in the lifelong process of
aging.” —Charlotte Bunch, author, Passionate Politics
Aging, Psychology 0-933216-77-7 $12.95
Desert Years: Undreaming the American Dream is an invitation to slow down and
breathe in the desert air, an experience too rare in these busy times. Cynthia Rich, co-
author of one of the most popular books on aging, Look Me in the Eye, shares some of her
experiences of living on the desert for six years. Living in a small trailer community of
mostly old women, she writes on a range of topics, including what it means to make
radical change in one’s life: how the desert is the companion of an old lesbian; what it
means to be Jewish among a group of born-again Christians; how it feels to watch city-
polluted air finally make its way over the mountains.
Lambda Literary Award Finalist! Ecofeminism 0-933216-67-X $7.95
Cancer in Two Voices is a collaboration that began when Barbara Rosenblum
was diagnosed with breast cancer. Using essays, journal entries and letters, Sandy and
Barbara share the experience of living with cancer and being the partner who survives.
Cancer in Two Voices is a subversive book in the best sense of the word—it provokes
p engagement with all of life’s choices: goals and values, work and friendship, lovers and
family. It nourishes and sustains, leaving the reader with fewer certainties while gaining
insight and compassion. “The book is a little miracle too, and should be read by every
woman still lucky to be alive.” —Audrey Eaglan, WLW Journal.
Lambda Literary Award Winner! Health/Personal Growth 0-933216-84-X $12.95
Look Me in the Eye is the quintessential text for all inquiries into ageism; this
book should be required reading for any Womens’ Studies class. “...a tremendously
stirring recognition of what we are doing to ourselves as we grow older and a rousing
attack on what is being done to us.” —May Sarton
November 1993 94 Volume 16 N Aginug, m Ageisbm e0-9r332 16 -942-0 $8.95
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:14 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Compiled by Carol Seajay Published by Desert Crone Press, 730 Columbia St.
#C, Sante Fe NM 87501. IN & BP.
This issue's From Our Own Presses colunm features
a number of books from first time and occasional feminist To Know the Moon by Inés Martinez: I couldn't
publishers as well as established feminist presses. possibly say it better than Joan Nestle: “A writer
who plunges into dreams and carries their truths
Elaine Mikels autobiography Just Lucky I into the canyons and mountains of our everyday
Guess: From Closet Lesbian to Radical Dyke is a lives. Powerful, wrenching, To Know the Moon is
wonderful addition to the tiny collection of lesbian the story of Sabe, a young Mexican-American
autobiography. Now in her 70s, Mikels writes woman who lives as much in her sensual, gritty
about being a lesbian during the extremely oppres-
sive 40s and 50s, doing anti-war work and civil dis-
obedience in the sixties, her experiences in the les-
bian feminist movement and culture of the 70s and
80s (when she was known as Elana Freedom), being
an activist with Old Lesbians Organizing for
Change in the 90s, her passion for traveling, and (of
course!) about her relationships with other women
throughout her life. It’s a wonderful, rich, fascinat-
ing read that really stirs the hunger for lesbian
biography and autobiography. Pleasant and com-
pelling reading. Worth going to great lengths to
stock. $12.95 pb, 0-9637257-1-8. 40% for 6+, 30% for
2-5. Watch for her next book, Signposts and Pitfalls.
Bookpeople (BP) and Inland (IN) distribute small press unconscious as in the daily world where her moth-
books to bookstores. “BP” or “IN” at the end of an annota- er fights a losing battle against illness. Martinez cre-
tion means that the books are available from that distribu- ates a language that sings, shrieks, explodes on the
tor. Both distributors stock a wide range of titles and pub- page as Sabe journeys through the decades, reach-
lishers of interest to feminist bookstores. If you are a new ing for women to love and ideals to live for.” $14.95
store or don't already work with both distributors, drop pb, 0-9636433-0-4. Sandia Press, 368 11th St.,
everything and call for catalogs. Brooklyn NY 11215.
Inland Book Company, PO Box 120261, 140
Commerce St., East Haven CT 06512. Order number: Wild Justice by Ruth M. Sprague, published by
800-243-0138 (including Canada and Connecticut). T'wanda Books gets revenge on “the testosterone
Bookpeople, 7900 Edgewater Dr, Oakland CA 94621. temples of academia” that blatantly discriminate
Phone: 800-999-4650. against women while turning a blind eye to child
Volume 16 Number 4 November 1993
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:14 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsmolestation, sexual harassment and record falsifica-
tion — when done by members of the male club...
THE COUNTRY OF HERSELF Wild Justice is a fictional account of one woman’s
Karen Lee Osborne, editor experience with vindictive university administra-
tions who fabricated charges against her several
This collection of wonderful years after she won an affirmative action case
w CI Pt aar rr it oeini t ln sc kg l Au y nd ,i e s s s h A a a wns t g ,ob er a l ar i a ne g s da J i n a b mc y k aa s nt oS yna r$ ,9 a.95! 4a mg 0e %a nin t s ft oa r st h w 3e +m e ,l l. n aC os o n dfs iii scd tte rir io b n us .. th . o e rl $ sv 5 .i .n 9 Tg 9 ' w pi an b n , d s a e 1 x - B8u o8a ol 3 k8 8h s,9a -r 0 Pa 5s Os - - 7 . Box
others. 1227, Peralta NM 87042.
“. . . a very polished
collection.” —Booklist Conditions of War by Lierre Keith is, as Andrea
“. . . a wonderfully diverse Dworkin says, a ” large-hearted, terrific story of
Short Fiction by Chicago Women love and adventure among women who fight for
established, whose voices women. ...bittersweet and funny, redolent with sad-
ness of lost love and not a few broken dreams... A
Karen Lee Osbome, editor le ix vc ei st .i ”n —g Rly o— sea llb eo nu t B ro ou wr n coming-of-age story for radical feminists in a time
of serial sadism....” Armed with spraypaint and
courage — and their love for each other — the char-
Two Willow Chairs acters in this novel fight for all women and fight the
1-879427-05-2 $8.95 challenges to their idealism as well. $10.95 pb, 0-
“. . . compelling and 9632660-1-2. 45% discount for 1-5 copies, 50% for
p No ei wgn s a n &t . ” N o— teM sama Bears’ 6+; publisher pays shipping. Fighting Words Press,
124 Williams St., Northampton MA 01060. Also
The Dress/ avail. from B&T.
The Sharda Stories
1-879427-04-4 $8.95
Classic lesbian erotica ripples
sw ti ot rh y e Sn ue sr ig e y , B r i in gc hl tu d din eg sc r o ibn ee d If You Want to Soar You've Got to Learn to Fly
as eautiuly writen and by Anita L. Pace (editor of Write from the Heart:
utterly perverse.” Lesbians Healing from Heartache) is an autobiographi-
Jess Wells| cal account of growing up in the 50s and 60s in an
: SPECIAL CLOSEOUT American-Italian-Catholic home, fighting for inde-
pendence and, eventually, coming to grips with her
aO DISCOUNT ON love for women. Events are recalled as if they are
Roga THESE CLASSIC JESS written in the present, and various type-sizes are
WELLS ORIGINALS: used to indicate age and experience. Definitely a
o7 N f0 o f% e rr ep tr fue rrp ena ei s d . f; rA 6 es i0 g% ha l t w n ae oyt ns , 3 o 0 rw. de ers 9“ 1t 7-r 1 0u . 7 e 5 B- . t a o b I- Nyli f &e S t ea Bpd Psv .e Pn rt eu sr se , s Pt Oo r y B. o” x $ 11 90 1.9 75 , p Bb ea, v e0 r- t9 o6 n3 1 6 O6 R6-
of 20 or more books in any
combination. The Assimilation of Leah Wennover, another
thin and wonderful volume from Stephanie T. Hoppe
(The Eschatological Cat, Windrider and co-editor with
Theresa Corrigan of With a Fly's Eye, Whales Wit, and
Third Side Press Woman's Heart) and her Evoe Press, offers “an
intense, evocative alternate history of New England”
2250 W. Farragut, Chicago, IL 60625 312/271-3029 in which three travelers from a distant future search
Volume 16 Number 4
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:14 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
history for women with capacities that have been lost fronts the problems and explores the potential of the
to our tine. In 17th century New England they locate liturgical expression of theology in Christian com-
a girl with promising talents — but her contempo- munities while pushing the boundaries of belief and
raries accuse her of witchcraft. Published with raves practice. $14.95 pb, -06-3. Other titles include To A
on the back from Sally Gearhart and Susanna Sturgis. Strange Land: The Autobiography of Marjorie Agnes
| $6.95 pb, 0-9634514-2-1. Evoe Press, PO Box 1124, Powles and Dreaming the Tree of Life. 40% for 5+
Ukiah CA 95482. BP & IN. books. Artemis Enterprises, RR #2 Box 54, Dundas
ON L9H 5E2. Phone and fax: 416-628-0596.
It’s a bit past dinner time as I come to the
| Bloodroot Collective’s third feminist vegetarian
cookbook, The Perennial Political Palate. Would
that I could just zip across town to sample the Earth's Daughters celebrated twenty years of
recipes rather than reading them and gazing into continuous publishing in 1991 and compiled Fine
the all-too-wonderful color pictures. Bloodroot, for China, a collection of work that had appeared in
those who don’t know, is a wonderful woman-run, the magazine over the years. Three of the poems
mostly vegan feminist restaurant with a small even address the issues of working in a feminist
adjoining bookstore in Bridgeport, CT. In addition collective and passing the magazine on to a new
to featuring some of their best recipes, the book collective: There are problens/in leaving a seven-year-
highlights quotations from books the coilective old/Even with such carefully chosen/foster parents/ Can
members have been reading and discussing (in the they be counted on/when she needs twenty-four-hour
kitchen, presumably), and a tribute to Bloodroot’s care/Or will they be diverted by children of their own?
persistence throughout its sixteen-year history. What will they answer strangers/when asked about her
Previous books in the series include The Political name/her history/ Will she be properly dressed/when she
Palate and The Second Seasonal Political Palate. $16.95 goes to press? (from “Erthe’s Daughters by Marion
pb, 0-9605210-3-8. Sanguinaria Publishing, 85 Ferris Perry). $14.00 pb, 1-877800-04-X. Earth’s
St., Bridgeport CT 06605. Distributed by Inland. Daughters/Springhouse Editions, PO Box 41
Central Park Station, Buffalo NY 14214. IN & BP.
In Sister/Stranger: Lesbians Loving Across the
Artemis Enterprises, if you haven’t yet encoun- Lines edited by Jan Hardy “thirty-five lesbians
tered them, is a small, feminist Canadian publisher from across the U.S., Canada, the U.K., and
based in a feminist theology center. They do music Australia tell of their fears, angers, arguments, mis-
engraving/typesetting and have published five takes, and the surprisingly everyday miracles of
books. Storm and Sanctuary: The Journey of hope and connection, love and humor that give us
Ethiopian and Eritrean Women Refugees by Helene hope in spite of it all — and, of course, of the erotic
Moussa looks at women refugees’ issues, includes a passion and loving affection that blooms between
global analysis, considers the politics of research women, whatever our differences.” $11.95 pb, 0-
with women in vulnerable situations and the partic- 961-74063-9. Sidewalk Revolution Press, PO Box
ular legal situation of women refugees in Canada. 9062, Pittsburgh PA 15224. IN & BP.
$18.95 pb, 1-895247-08-X. Out of the Fire: Worship I think I must be the last dyke on the block to
and Theology of Liberation, by passionate feminist know that Big Breakfast published a collection of
and Anglican priest Gertrude (Trudy) Lebans, con- Garbo’s (Rusty: How Me and Her Went to Colorado
Volume 16 Number 4 97 November 1993
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:14 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
out as satori — fine Buddhist practice; a discussion
of the “men’s movement” and much more. Serious,
thoughtful, insightful but not hopelessly academic.
Don’t make the mistake I did and confuse it with
another new (and wonderful) new literary journal
out of Toronto — also called At The Crossroads —
that focused on visual, performing and literary arts
by/about women artists of African American
descent. At The Crossroads, PO Box 112, St. Paul AR
72760. IN. j
AZS rek
ATTIC PRESS
the author of A Safe Place To Sleep Recent additions to the Irish feminist press’ list
$9.95, 184 pages, 0-9634075-1-1 include:
A Bottle in the Cupboard: Women and Alcohol
Lesbian B ooiksrellners: O rOder c opIieEs today b foy r Y wv oo mnn ee n W wa hr od , f ia n d b o to hk e m so seli lc vi et se d v ib cy ti m A st t oic f. aW lcr oi ht ot len
fi c Pt ofi rwo omn e / Orum r Py rs et se sry and o ng e wt h at y po rou mr i se sc u tos t bo em aers hooked d loe vp ee dn d oen nc esy ’ ia nn vd o lvf eo mr e t nh to s we i tw hh o a l ca or he o l a f bf ye c t ae d w ob my a ntheir
best-selling, long-running series. with years of experience in the field of addiction
counseling. Great four-color cover portraying a
woman's hand reaching for a bottle hidden among
and Everything, Except Not Really) Windy City Times the cleaning supplies... $15.99 pb, 1-85594-066-3.
columns. The Complete Garbo Talks was, of Virgins and Hyacinths: An Attic Press Book of
course, preceded by Garbo Talks, a 54-page booklet Fiction edited by Caroline Walsh collects women’s
that was followed by More Garbo Talks. The short stories published in The Irish Times. It includes
Complete. Garbo includes both. Anyhow, if you stories by Mary Dorcey and Anne Enright (both
need a laugh (and who doesn’t this time of year?) recipients of The Rooney prize for Irish literature),
pick one up... $9.95 pb, 1-881152-03-0. Big Breakfast Maeve Binchy, Mary Morrissey, Eilís Ní Dhuibhne,
Publishing, PO Box 02394, Columbus OH 43202. IN Moy McCrory and others. $15.99 pb, 1-85994-068-X.
and Alamo Square. Unveiling Treasures: The Attic Guide to the
Published Works of Irish Women Literary Writers
by Ann Owens Weekes offers the first comprehen-
sive, detailed directory of over 200 Irish women liter-
The most-mentioned new magazine this sum- ary writers, providing biographical data, descrip-
mer when I was traveling briefly through five femi- tions of the writer's work, awards and prizes
nist bookstores (do I envy Kay Hagan or what!?!) received, bibliographic information and quotes from
was At The Crossroads, a magazine of “feminism, each writer's work. Covers the 17th through 20th
spirituality, and science exploring earthly and centuries. $31.99 pb, 1-85594-067-1; $63.99 cl, - 072-8.
unearthly reality.” The issue I saw included an arti- Summer Without Mum by Bernadette Leach is
cle by an MD questioning medical approaches to the fifth title in Attic’s very successful Bright Sparks
“healing;” a moving piece by a woman facing death series aimed at Teenage/Young Adult readers. In
from cancer written three weeks before she died; a this sequel to the very popular I Anı A Vegetarian,
look at lesbianism, feminism and Buddhism by Vanessa decides to make her own plans in Cork
FBN contributor Shelley Anderson that identifies when her mum gets an offer to teach in America for
two early Buddhist lesbians and defines coming- the summer. Vanessa dreams of a summer of fun,
November 1993 98 Volume 16 Number 4
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:14 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms| freedom and adventure but things don’t turn out Wood's Women Composers: The Lost Tradition
quite so simply. $9.99 pb, 1-85594-074-4. Found by Diane Peacock Jezie who died in 1989,
Recent titles in the Attic Reflections series will spur renewed interest in the history and per-
include Reflections on Cats edited by Margaret formance of women’s musical compositions.
Neylon and Reflections on Friendship. $13.95 each, Offering newly recovered information about the
pb, 1-85594-064-7 and -063-9 respectively. composers as well as an updated listing of available
Attic Press, 4 Upper Mount St., Dublin 2, scores and recordings, this volume brings together
Ireland. IN & BP. musical and biographical material about twenty-
five composers from the 11th to the 20th centuries.
FEMINIST PRESS AT CUNY $14.95 pb. 1-55861-074-X; $35 cl, -073-1.
Changes: A Love Story by award-winning The Feminist Press at CUNY, 311 East 94th
African writer Ama Ama Ata Aidoo portrays the Street, New York NY 10128.
conflicts between professional women in changed — Sue Cozzi /The Feminist Press
lives and men whose lives have not changed.
Manthia Diawara, Director of African Studies at FIREBRAND BOOKS
New York University says that “Changes inaugu- There are four titles from Firebrand for Fall
rates a new realist style in African literature.” 1993. Available through InBook, from major distrib-
Changes is a book that cannot be missed, along utors and wholesalers.
with Ama Ata Aidoo who is Distinguished Visiting
Professor of English at Oberlin College. $12.95 pb, Some women have to learn the
1-55861-065-0; $35.00 cl, -064-2, Dec.
hard way—-in the game of love,
there are no rules.
| This spring we will introduce readers to a new
translation of Sor Juana Inés de las Cruz's most
famous works in The Answer/La Respuesta: The SNAKES AND LADDERS
Restored Text and Selected Poems. Drawing on by Kathryn Ann
rich new scholarship, this bilingual edition with a
on fe w t h t er a sn ts rla ut gi gon le o ff o r a t hla en d im nta er lk le c e ts us aa ly r ii gn h tt sh e o f h i wst oo mry en ISBN 1-895349-01-X
restores the original language of Sor Juana Inés de Paperback $11.95 U.S.
la Cruz, thus replacing previous masculinzed trans-
lations. Frederick Luciani, Chair of the Department
of Romance Languages and Literatures at Colgate Stories of passion, betrayal,
University says that our translation “renders the reconciliation and growth—a KATIN ANN
two previous translations immediately obsolete.” provocative and entertaining
This is the indispensable Sor Juana book for individ- look at the perils and pleasures of lesbian relationships.
ual readers and the classroom. $12.95 pb, 1-55861-
077-4; $35.00 cl, -076-6, May. Impertinent Press
With a February publication date, the long Ot tB ao wx a , 2 3 O0 n9 t7 a, r i o2 1 2 C1 a n C ada ar l i Kng 2 A A v 4Een 2ue
awaited second edition of musicologist Elizabeth
Volume 16 Number 4
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:14 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Before Our Eyes, A Novel by Joan Alden. several people close in. $8.95 pb, 1-56341-035-4;
Before Our Eyes is not a “fun” book, but it is an $18.95 cl, -036-2.
engrossing read. Early reviews in PW, Booklist, and Forty-Three Septembers, Essays by Jewelle
Library Journal were quite enthusiastic. A woman in Gomez. The reason I like this book is the same rea-
her thirties, competent in the world but adrift in her son Ī] like the author: it is a very human, broad-
personal life, comes to terms with her lesbian moth- based, encompassing, insightful, loving but not sac-
er's sudden death (she had come out shortly charine look at many of the important things in
before), her dysfunctional family dynamic, and her Jewelle Gomez's life. We edited, pushing the pro-
severely disabled brother. In the process she falls in duction schedule ahead two weeks, so that we
love with her mother’s lover. Joan Alden used to be could deal with her move to San Francisco after
Joan Lindau (Letting In The Night). $8.95 pb,1-56341- twenty-two years in New York, and my surgery.
033-8; $18.95 c], -034-6. We're still close friends. $10.95 pb, 1-56341-037-0;
Experimental Love, Poetry by Cheryl Clarke is $22.95 c], -038-9.
highly structured in form and outrageously free-
wheeling in content. Working with Cheryl Clarke
has taught me a great deal about the internal craft
of poetry. She still has the power to make me blush. Spawn of Dykes To Watch Out For, Cartoons
This book, her fourth, is tempered by the deaths of by Alison Bechdel. What’s new that can be said
about Alison Bechdel’s work? I realized in doing
TWENTY-FIRST CENTURY this book just how immensely talented this cartoon-
ist is. I found the thirty-two page birth sequence,
CHALLENGE created especially for Spawn, both moving and
funny. Alison may never have given birth, or even
Lesbians and Gays In Education been a member of a lesbian support team, but she
certainly knows how to do her research and make
Bridging the Gap things live on the page. $8.95 pb, 1-56341-039-7;
$18.94 cl, -040-0. Firebrand Books, 141 The
Edited by Sue McConnell-Celi, MA Commons, Ithaca NY 14850.
. Entertaining, enlightening, explores the —Firebrand Books
lesbian and gay experiences within the
classroom setting. Weaving cultural patterns MADWOMAN PRESS
throughout, this anthology includes narratives, Maine writer Nanci Little has given us a think-
comics, photos, poems, bibliography & sample ing woman's romance in her first novel, Thin Fire,
curricula. A great 'first’ for high school, college, a book that you can wholeheartedly recommend as
public and personal libraries... 215p a wonderful “read.” Little's talents as a writer
Your best friend just told you, “I’m gay.” include an eye for detail and the ability to develop
character with powerful and original imagery. This
novel, which explores the experience of three
women in military service, is an exceptional com-
ing-of-age and coming-out story. $9.95 pb, 0-
9630822-4-8. IN, BP and Alamo Square Distributors.
Madwoman Press, Inc., PO Box 690, Northboro
MA 01532-0690
LAVENDER CRYSTAL PRESS —Diane Benison/Madwoman Press
POB 8932, Red Bank, NJ 07701
NAIAD PRESS
Distributed by Bookpeople and Inland We open 1994 in celebration of the tenth novel
by one of our best-loved authors, along with a riv-
November 1993 100
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:14 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
eting first novel by a striking new talent; then a POST-APOLLO PRESS
can't miss bestseller by one of our best storytellers; The Post-Apollo Press announces the publica-
tion of:
every persuasion. Of Cities and Women (Letters to Fawwaz) by
In Michaela, Sarah Aldridge takes us to Paris Etel Adnan. Asked to contribute a study on femi-
nism, Etel Adnan decides to adopt the free and
a 14-year-old with exceptional talent for ballet. adventurous approach of letters to investigate cities
Returning to New York with Michaela, they find (such as Barcelona, Amsterdam, Berlin, Beirut...),
her chance for a future — and their own life togeth- and their relations to women’s lives as well as to
er — jeopardized by exposure of their relationship. the idea of woman. “...a provocative combination of
$10.95 pb, 1-56280-055-8. meditation, mediation — and immediacy — that
Refer all your mystery readers to well-known has so distinguished her internationally acclaimed
Washington D.C. TV news reporter Penny writing.” — Barbara Harlow, Department of
Mickelbury’s auspicious debut novel, Keeping English, UniverQsity of Texas at Austin. $11 pb, 0-
Secrets: A Gianna Maglione Mystery, about the
pursuit of a serial killer of closeted gay people. In
this very fine first of a series, Afro-American news
reporter Mimi Patterson finds herself involved with
the Lieutenant, who heads up the police task force. Paris, When It’s Naked by Etel Adnan. “Etel
$9.95 pb, 1-56280-052-3. Adnan tells a story of our time, a time when simply
In True Love, by bestselling Jennifer Fulton to sit and think is to be baffled by a thousand shift-
(Passion Bay), six women meet each Wednesday to ing currents of social and political (and therefore
discuss their love lives. The two rules for their personal) possibilities. Beneath the daily round of
meeting: they must tell the truth and they must not the individual, and the habituations of Paris as a
become romantically involved with one another. locale, move forces (market, military, demographic)
Do they follow the rules? Oh sure. This smart, sexy, that threaten to subvert and destroy, promise to
very witty romance will zoom off your shelves. challenge and enlighten. This conflict is made
$9.95 pb, 1-56280-035-3. naked here, thanks to Adnan's wonderful ability to
level with herself and her readers. The light of the
personal becomes all the brighter, among such
giant shadows.” — David Bromige. “An indispens-
able book by an indispensable writer.” — Morgan
Melanie Myer has been utterly captivated by Gibson, Japan Women’s University, Tokyo. $13.50
the house she has just rented. And captured as well pb, 0-942996-20-8.
by a former inhabitant of the house. Her name is The Post-Apollo Press, 35 Marie Street,
Camille, and she died in 1914. For readers who love Sausalito CA 94965. The Post-Apollo Press is dis-
old-fashioned ghost stories — and who doesn’t? — tributed by Inland, BP, and Small Press
recommend Gardenias Where There Are None by Distribution, or order directly from the publisher.
Molleen Zanger. $9.95 pb, 1-56280-056-6.
Naiad Press, PO Box 10543, Tallahassee FL SECOND STORY PRESS
10543. Distributed by IN, BP, Ingram, et al. Margaret Atwood’s Power: Mirrors, Reflections
—Naiad Press and Images In Select Fiction and Poetry by
101 November 1993
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:14 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
THE POST-APOLLO > AN
OF CITIES AND WOMEN
OF CITIES & WOMEN
LCROSS 1O avist
(Letters to Fawwaz)
By Etel Adnan
Asked to contribute a study on feminism, Etel Adnan decides to adopt
the free and adventurous approach of letters to investigate cities (such
as Barcelona, Amsterdam, Berlin, Beirut . . .), and their relations to
women’s lives as well as to the idea of woman.
“. . . a provocative combination of meditation, mediation — and
immediacy — that has so distinguished her internationally acclaimed
writing.”
Barbara Harlow, Department of English, University of Texas at Austin.
Price: $11.00 — ISBN: 0-942996-21-6
PARIS, WHEN IT'S NAKED
Parus, WHEN TTS NAKED
By Etel Adnan
Etel Adnan tells a story of our time, a time when simply to sit and
think is to be baffled by a thousand shifting currents of social and
political (and therefore personal) possibilities. Beneath the daily
round of the individual, and the habituations of Paris as a local,
move forces (market, military, demographic) that threaten to
subvert and destroy, promise to challenge and enlighten. This
conflict is made naked here, thanks to Adnan's wonderful ability
to level with herself and her readers. The light of the personal
becomes all the brighter among such giant shadows.
David Bromige
Eit Acirasunn
“An indispensible book by an indispensible writer”
Morgan Gibson, Japan Women’s University, Tokyo
Price: $13.50 — ISBN: 0-942996-20-8
November 1993 102 Volume 16 Number 4
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:14 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsTHE POST-APOLLO > PRESS
AGATHA
SAVANNAH BAY
By Marguerite Duras
2 plays translated from the French by Howard Limoli
The most absolute literary personality in France today has written
there her most important and beautiful plays. Whether she is
talking about incest (Agatha) or motherly love, Duras is forever
investigating the “mad love” that few of her heroines can survive.
Price: $14.00 — ISBN: 0-942996-16X
JOSEF IS DYING Ulta Berkawicz
By Ulla Berkewicz JOSEF IS DYING |
soca k k
a novel translated from the German by Gerald Williams
Josef is terminally ill. The mother is scared by the father’s fear. The ;
father is scared. The mother calls for help. I come, says the young © o
woman. Dying is natural. She isn't scared. Of course she is. She [=
isn't yet thirty. What happens with somebody who is dying? What n
happens with someone who is looking? o
YHN FONI srOLLO PRBS
Price: $11.00 — ISBN: 0-942996-15-1
The Post-Apollo Press is distributed by Inland, Bookpeople,
the distributors and Smali Press Distribution.
Volume 16 Number 4 103 November 1993
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:14 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Shannon Hengen. In this thought-provoking femi- to his friends, Tai and Daniella, as well as to his
nist analysis, Hengen provides a psychoanalytic teacher and the librarian; he even phones his grand-
overview examining Atwood’s treatment of women mother long-distance. After politely dismissing all
and power. Who has power? Who abuses it? By efforts to help the tooth fall out via the toffee treat-
looking at her characters Hengen raises some ment or shaking upside down, Sasha is astounded
important issues about Atwood’s writing. In her when he swallows it accidentally. With humor and
novels and poems Atwood’s protagonists explore sensitivity this beautifully illustrated picturebook
the lives of their mothers and grandmothers in deals with a universal rite of passage all children
order to reflect on the lives and struggles we con- experience. 24 pages, $5.95 pb, 0-929005-50-3; $12.95
front today. Using the metaphor of narcissism — cl, 51-1.
both progressive and regressive, and the mirror Frictions II: Stories by Women edited by Rhea
imagery which threads through Atwood’s work, Tregebov. The original Frictions, published in our
Hengen gives a feminist reading to the work of this first season in 1989, was a popular and critical suc-
cess; We are now pleased to present Frictions II. In
this new collection of short stories, twenty-two
writers explore the lives, joys and struggles of
important Canadian author. Hengen argues that women. Broad in scope, Frictions II looks at the
the connections women are able to make between variety and complexity of women’s experiences
their own lives today and the lives portrayed by today. Issues of race, sexuality, age, and class are
Atwood, account in part for the writer's success powerfully addressed. Several writers challenge the
and popularity. 12.95 pb, 0-929005-49-X. reader with their explorations of our cultural diver-
Witch's Brew by Marie-Francine Hébert. The sity. This is a vital collection, rich in its breadth of
ever-adventuresome Poppy, of A Monster in My subject and style, and illuminating in its under-
Cereal and A Ghost in My Mirror, is back again. In this standing of women’s daily lives. 270 pages, $14.95
new fast-paced chapter book for early readers, pb, 0-929005-47-3.
Poppy becomes involved in an escapade as soon as Second Story Press, 760 Bathurst Street,
she begins to read a story about a black cat and a Toronto, Canada M5S 2R6. Distributed by
witch. In fact, she soon encounters what she thinks is University of Toronto Press in Canada; by InBook
a horrible looking witch everywhere she goes. What in the USA.
Poppy comes to realize after some wild and deli- —Second Story Press
ciously scary fun is that underneath the menacing
exterior, this witch is really a warm person who LWZ
deserves her friendship. Over one million copies of
prizewinning author Marie-Francine Hébert’s books SPINSTERS INK
are available in Spanish, French, Danish, Italian and The Other Side of Silence by Joan Drury. In the
Chinese. 54 pages, $5.95 pb, 0-929005-52-X. first mystery from Spinsters’ publisher Joan Drury,
Sasha And The Wiggly Tooth by Rhea Newspaper columnist and feminist lesbian activist
Tregebov, illustrated by Helénè Desputeaux. First Tyler Jones discovers a body while walking her
Printing: 30,000 Copies Sasha is the last of all of his dog. Tyler assumes she’s an innocent bystander
friends who still has his baby teeth. So, when one until she’s informed that the victim was a man who
tooth becomes wiggly he is excited, curious and once threatened her life. Tyler enlists the aid of her
also a little bit worried. He shows his wiggly tooth good friend to help solve the murder and finds her-
November 1993 104 Volume 16 Number 4
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:14 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
self facing a moral dilemma: can she, does she even
want to, reveal a killer she might feel was justified? Now is the time for all good women to
239 pages, $9.95 pb, 0-933216-92-0. give Biblio Press gift books for: JEWISH
Trees Call For What They Need. Melissa BOOK MONTH and CHANUKAH Dec. 9-16:
Kwasny, author or Modern Daughters and the Outlaw Hardcover gift edition:
West, has written a wonderful new regional novel WRITTEN OUT OF HISTORY: JEWISH
described by Booklist as “an ingenuous novel that FOREMOTHERS by Taitz & Henry
captures you in its current and never makes you $15.95 (from Biblio)
regret the ride.” It is the story of three women born $11.50 pap.*
at the turn of the century: Nettie, a woolen mill
worker and tenant farmer; Aunt Till, a Spiritualist Just Off The Press!
medium and lesbian, and Marie, a Polish immi- FROM THE WISE WOMEN OF ISRAEL:
grant who owns the Poletown bar. It is a lyrical Folklore & Memoirs,
compiled by Gold & Stein
$7.95 pap.* now ($8.95 in 1994)
*avallable from Inland & Bookpeople
est gN io r l M ina t t he er r W wh oa rt k inby g cM laa sr sy C S aa tr ha oc li in c o . f aA ms i l yth , e P eo al nd u- t JB St Eo io Wllk Is Sit Hno r e d W e B m Ou May n Ee d Nr :s 'S R N A Ao Q Wt Ue A: E RL EA N, E W SSo m Ga Un I D Eof Israel &
is proud to be her mother’s confidante and right
hand. Her mother is having an affair with a priest Get List of 21 Titles • Fax: 212-545-9530
and thinking about running away with him. Peanut
doesn’t want to be left behind, but she also doesn’t stories are well written and reflect the perspectives
want to lose her father and brothers. It’s hard to of a diverse group of women.
keep her mother’s secrets when they hurt so much, Third Side Press, 2250 W. Farragut, Chicago IL
to go on loving when she feels so angry, but Peanut 60625-1802; 312-271-3029, FAX 312-271-0459. Please
promises herself that she will love her mother no order quantities of 20+ directly (40% discount and
matter what. 306 pages, $9.95 pb, 0-933216-91-2. free freight on 20+; 43% on 60+; mixed titles OK).
Spinsters Ink, PO Box 300170, Minneapolis MN Otherwise, please use our wholesalers: Bookpeople,
55403. Distributed by InBook. Also available from Inland, and New Leaf.
Inland, BP, Ingram, and B&T. —Third Side Press
—Kelly Kager/Spinsters Ink
The Country of Herself: Short Fiction by VIRAGO
Chicago Women (1-879427-14-1; $9.95 pb), edited Two Virago titles have recently become avail-
by Karen Lee Osborne (author of Hawkwings). This able in the U.S.:
is rot a regional book. Though its authors are from Refusing Holy Orders: Women and Funda-
mentalism in Britain edited by Gita Sahgal and
Paretsky, Carol Anshaw, Angela Jackson, Maxine Nira Yuval-Davis collects and looks at the particu-
Chernoff, June Brindel, Anne Brashler, Eleanor lar ways in which women affect and are affected by
Devine, Mary Gray Hughes, and Patricia Lear all the Christian, Jewish, Muslim and Hindu funda-
have published books to their credit. Sharon mentalist movements in Britain as, in the instability
Solwitz (Nelson Algren Award winner), S. L. of the 90s, dogmatic religious beliefs call for a
Wisenberg, Sandra Jackson-Opoku, Joyce return to “traditional” values — particularly to the
Goldenstern, and Diane Williams have been well control of women within the patriarchal family.
published in literary and feminist magazines. The Identity, gender roles, attitudes toward contracep-
November 1993
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:14 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
EM ROAD UAR Writing Wanted ...
NIST CAST Continued from page 73
The anthology will bring together silenced life-sto-
F o R ries by women and stories about adoption. The
journal has an international bend. Fiction and non-
fiction will be considered (no poetry). Susan Wadia-
f them ate ie wn oi mst e n© s hon oue ld w h ho a v ee s p po ou lis te is c a lt ,h e e c op nr oin mc ii cp ,le DE el cl es m, b eP r O 1 5 ,B o 19x 9 3 .401, Putney VT 05346. Deadline:
and social rights equal to those of men.
btOro aSdOcaWst s•e e d1.. to spread information widely. 2. poet rT yh e ( a ls ru eb am dyis s pio un b l id shea ed dl )i n ie n f to hr e e 1n 9t 9e 4r i n Kg i n b go slo ek ys of
Tufts Poetry Contest at The Claremont Graduate
q mu oa nre tt he sr . e l 2y . • a v a1 i. l a ba l ep u ab tl i c fa et mio in n i si ts s u ae nd d e av le tr ery n at th ivr eee School is December 15, 1993. The prize is valued at
bookstores in California, Illinois, Massachusetts, $50,000 and is the largest prize honoring a book of
Montana, New York, North Carolina, Oregon, poetry awarded in the United States. For guidelines
Texas, and Washington. 3. also available through and information call 909-621-8974.
bsu eb los wcr i p ot ri o cn a l lf o (r 5 0 3$ )8 . 0 20 2 0 -a 6 4y 1e 3a .r. Write address É 77TA
FBQ is Multicultural, Multiracial Feminism! The Sage Within — The Spiritual Lives of Everyday
Women seeks prose contributions on how women
P.O. BOX 19946 • PORTLAND, OR 97280 incorporate their spirituality into their everyday
lives. No “spiritual resume” needed — just honest
accounts of how you connect with the Divine and
tion and toward women’s work have all become express your spirituality in everyday living. All
issues of control — and arenas of resistance. $19.95 faiths, all paths, all backgrounds welcome and
pb, 1-85381-219-6. needed. Contact Hummingbird Press, PO Box 8116,
Nina Bawden’s Walking Naked, published in Santa Rosa CA 95407.
the Virago Modern Classics series, is “a book about
influences — friends and enemies, parents and chil- TransSisters: The Journal of Transsexual Feminism
dren, pains and pleasures and the vagaries of fate.” welcomes submissions of articles, poetry, inter-
The prolific Bawden has published 20 adult novels, Views, reviews, artwork and photography relevant
16 children’s books and served as a magistrate for to the issues of transsexuality which express a femi-
ten years... $10.95 pb, 1-85381-444-X. nist perspective. Although the primary focus of
Both distributed in the U.S. by Trafalgar Square, TransSisters is expected to be issues of concern to
North Pomfret VT 05053. male-to-female transexuals, submissions dealing
with issues of female-to-male transsexuality are also
welcome. Contact Davina Anne Gabriel, 4004
Troost Avenue, Kansas City MI 64110.
Faber and Faber is publishing the U.S. edition of
Virago’s Infinite Riches: Classic Stories by
Twentieth Century Women Writers edited by
Lynn Knight. “Most of the selections date from the
first half of the century and feature strong, sympa-
thetic women characters whose dilemmas and deci-
sions resonate as strongly today as when the stories
were first published.” $14.95 pb, 0-571-19823-4. O
November 1993 106 Volume 16 Number 4
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:14 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
FROM TH LL PRESSES
SEINI
By Dawn L. Martin inist reform, specifically concentrating on how the
former has influenced the latter. $19.95 pb, 1-
Volunteer Slavery: My Authentic Negro 895431-64-6; $38.95 cl, -65-4. Black Rose Books.
Experience by Jill Nelson is a provocative memoir Distributed by Paul & Company Publishers
that gives voice to the precarious position of an Consortium, PO Box 442, Concord MA 01742. IN.
African American woman writer who ends up writ-
ing for the Washington Post. Nelson’s job at the Post Alma Luz Villanueva’s Planet: With Mother,
“leads her to deeper reflections on both her career May I is a collection of poems that “shines a glaring
as a journalist and her heritage as a child of the light on such issues as poverty, sexual abuse, and
affluent black bourgeoisie, who grew up on New racism that is so harsh and absolutely real, readers
York's Upper West Side, attended private schools,
and vacationed on Martha's Vineyard.” Nelson’s
utterance breaks down stereotypes about Black
people and is unflinching and brave in its examina-
tion of self. A wonderfully engaging read. $21.95 c|,
1-879360-24-1. Noble Press, 213 W. Institute Place
Emma Goldman: Sexuality and the Impurity
of the State by Bonnie Haaland is a critical study of
Goldman’s life and politics. Haaland explores the
ideas of this courageous anarchist and feminist as
they relate to the “centrality of sexuality and repro-
duction.” The book makes connections between
Goldman’s feminist politics and contemporary fem-
Bookpeople (BP) and Inland (IN) distribute small press
books to bookstores. “BP” or “IN” at the end of an annota-
tion means that the books are available from that distribu-
tor. Both distributors stock a wide range of titles and pub-
lishers of interest to feminist bookstores. If you are a new
store or don't already work with both distributors, drop
everything and call for catalogs.
Inland Book Company, PO Box 120261, 140
Commerce St., East Haven CT 06512. Order number:
800-243-0138 (including Canada and Connecticut).
Bookpeople, 7900 Edgewater Dr, Oakland CA 94621.
Phone: 800-999-4650.
107 November 1993
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:14 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
will almost feel a physical need to look away.”
LAUREL KING Villanueva’s is a unique collection of poetry free
from the fetters of complex rhetorical strategies
sometimes found in contemporary poetry. $9 pb, 0-
927534-17-7. Bilingual Press, Hispanic Research
A Center, Arizona State University, Box 872702,
WHISTLING Tempe AZ 85287. BP, IN.
WOMAN Mercé Rondoreda, well known and respected
writer in all of Europe, is the author of a new book,
IS UP TO Camellia Street. Camellia Street is the story of
NO GOOD Cecília, left as an infant on the doorstep of an elder-
ly couple in postwar Barcelona. She grows up with
Finding Your Wild Woman n awo a ya f f te oc t li io vn e f wr io tm h ah e r y o uad no gp t miv ae n p ia nr e n at s s h a an nd t y tr ou wns n on
the outskirts of town. Written in a nightmarish
stream-of-consciousness style, Rodoreda’s form
parallels wartorn Barcelona. A feminist work “that
etches one powerless woman's strength in the face
of male brutality.” $20 c], 1-55597-192-X. Graywolf
F= Press, 2402 University Avenue Suite 203, Saint Paul
MN 55114. BP, IN.
LAUREL KING
Author of WOMEN OF POWER
$12 I. S9 B5 N p a 0p -e 8r 9, 0 8 2 73 -2 6 9 6p -a 7ges Beyo M ndo r e D e sT eh ra vn in gA l l ai nes d b Wy a l kSa inn gd r a D uS nc eo sf ) ie il sd a( G nri on vg ea l , that
explores human relationships in a subtle but intrigu-
From the author of Women of Power, ing way. More Than Allies tells the story of Maggie
Laurel King brings us a new book that who came to scenic Lupine Oregon to live as a foster
takes another look at what it means for child in the Jarrett home. Thirteen years later, she’s a
women to be wild in today’s society. King Jle ag ri rt eim tta t se o nm . e Tm hb ee r s t oo rf y t h ue n f f oa ldm s il y w h a ef nt e r M am gga ir er y min eg e t sthe
addresses the system of suppression that Dulce, a Mexican woman who cleans houses ($21.95
has kept women from expressing their true c], 1-877946-32-X). Out After Dark by Kai Maristed is
wild and spontaneous natures, and discuss- a first novel that has been called “Poignant... power-
es the importance of allowing our true ful... memorable” by critics and writers. Out After
selves to emerge. King interviewed hun- Dark tells the story of a young American couple who
dreds of women on how they have experi- tour Germany with their two children: Constance,
enced their wild natures, and shares their age five, and Lordi, two. During an Alpine hike the
stories along with her own insights on parents settle their drowsy children down to take a
finding your wild woman. nap. Following a series of events, the children end up
in a Munich orphanage, on the streets of Chicago’s
South Side, and subsequently share poverty with a
° CELESTIAL ARTS e black family “whose story becomes closely inter-
Berkeley, California twined” ($22 cl, 1-877946-30-3). Throwing Roses is a
800-841-2665 novel by Elizabeth Ridley that tells the story of 17-
year-old Branda Raggan who gets into a car accident
November 1993
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:14 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
and ends up in the hospital “a stranger within her Women of the Verge: Seven Avant Garde Plays
own skin.” Branda is unable to adjust to her old way edited by Rosette C. Lamont is an anthology gather-
of life and her mother sends her on a package tour to ing together recent work by the “finest and most con-
London “especially designed for people with ‘special troversial contemporary American women drama-
tists.” Includes “Occupational Hazard” by Rosalyn
six-foot-five-inch tall transvestite nightclub performer Drexler, “Letters to a Student Revolutionary” by
who helps her get back on track. Incidentally, Branda Elizabeth Wong, and “the Death of the Last Black
discovers her own attraction for women ($21.95 c|, 1- Man in the Whole Entire World” by Suzan-Lori
Parks. $14.95 pb, 1-55783-148-3, Dec. Applause
Harbor, NY 11963. Books, 211 West 71st St., New York NY 10023.
Voice/Over: Selected Poems by Olga Cabral is Carolina Wren Press continues to promote won-
a book that explores language — its sounds and derful new women’s voices with Family Meal by
effects. One poem begins, “I am the prisoner of Laura P. Valtorta. In her first novel, Valtorta takes
us back to the 1950s to visit two very different fami-
poems are at once magnificent and startling. She lies in upstate New York. Family Meal is the some-
was born in 1909 of Portuguese parents and is the times irreverent and often hilarious story of Sally, a
author of seven volumes of poetry including Cities girl from a Yankee family, and Mario, a boy raised
and Deserts (1959), The Darkness in My Pockets (1976), in an Italian immigrant family who fall in love and
and The Green Drean (1990). $9.95 pb, 0-931122-73-2. marry against everyone’s wishes. Publishers Weekly
West End Press, PO Box 27334, Albuquerque NM says “Family Meal charms by blending the ordi-
87125.BP, IN. nary with the eccentric...” $9.95 pb, 0-932112-33-1.
Carolina Wren Press, 120 Morris Street, Durham
Edited by Dr. Frances A. Karnes and Suzanne NC 27701.
M. Bean, Girls and Young Women Leading the
Way: 20 True Stories About Leadership collects
inspiring first-hand accounts of today’s young lead-
From Westchester Publishing Company’s
in communities and schools. Recommended for Women’s Health Series comes title number five,
ages 11 & up. $10.95 pb, 0-915793-52-0. Free Spirit Anxiety & Stress by Susan M. Lark, M.D. Anxiety
Publishing, 400 First Avenue North Suite 616, & Stress provides effective solutions for nervous
Minneapolis MN 55401. BP. tension, emotional distress, anxiety, and panic
($12.95 pb, 0-917010-55- 8). The other books in the
Persea Books has published What Silence series are also written by Dr. Lark. They are:
Equals: Poems by Tory Dent with a foreword by Menstrual Cramps ($12.95 pb, 0-917010-51-5),
Sharon Olds. In What Silence Equals, Dent mines Fibroid Tumors & Endometriosis ($12.95 pb, 0-
her harrowing, personal hell of being infected with 917010-54-X), Chronic Fatigue & Tiredness ($12.95
the AIDS virus. Her collection of poetry pays par- pb, 0-917101-52-3), Anemia & Heavy Menstrual
ticular attention to the female imagination as it Flow ($10.95 pb, 0- 917101-49-3). The Estrogen
bears witness to this deadly disease. $9.95 pb, 0- Decision is expected to be released in Spring 1994.
89855-196-8. Persea Books, 60 Madison Avenue, Westchester Publishing Company, 342 State Street
New York NY 10010. BP, IN. #6, Los Altos CA 94022. BP.
109 November 1993
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:14 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
The Crossing Press has several new titles this tant new spiritual movement. Eller offers a refresh-
fall. No More Frogs, No More Princes: Women ing journalistic view of the movement that is
Making Creative Choices at Midlife, interviews by changing the face of American religion. $24.95 cl, 0-
Joanne F. Vickers & Barbara L. Thomas, collects 8245-1245-6. The Crossroad Publishing Company,
personal stories of typical American women “who 370 Lexington Ave., New York NY 10017. BP.
woke up to the possibilities of midlife and met the
challenges head on.” The 20 stories in this volume Interlink Books has published Under the Silk
are the result of 100 interviews by the editors with Cotton Tree by Jean Buffong as part of their
women in their forties and fifties around the coun- Emerging Voices: New International Fiction Series.
try ($10.95 pb, 0-89594-625-4). Julia Penelope and Told from the vantage point of a young girl grow-
Sarah Valentine have edited International Feminist ing up in a Grenadian village, Jean Buffong has
Fiction, an anthology of twenty-four writers from recreated the langorous world of island life. The
several countries across the globe $12.95 pb, 0- lives of women leap from the page, shaped by the
89594-567-3). Goddesses & Wise Women, The joys and tragedies of family, children, magic and
Literature of Feminist Spirituality 1980-1992: An discovery. $9.95 pb, 1-56656-122-1; $22.95 cl, -126-4.
Annotated Bibliography by Anne Carson provides Interlink Publishing Group, 99 Seventh Avenue,
a useful and detailed resource for anyone working Brooklyn NY 11215. IN. _
in Women’s Studies ($12.95 pb, 0-89594-536-3).
Lady of the Northern Light: A Feminist Guide to
the Runes by Susan Gitlin-Emmer is a guide to
understanding the deep wisdom of all that human Two new titles for Berg Publishers are: Gender
beings possess through the Goddess ($12.95 pb, 0- and German Cinema: Feminist Interventions
89594- 629-7). Women’s Medicine Ways: Cross- which is Volume Two of their German Film History
Cultural Rites of Passage by Marcia Starck pre- Series, edited by Sanda Frieden, Richard W.
sents material from various cultural traditions — McCormick, Vibeke R. Petersen and Laurie Melissa
Native American, Wiccan, African and others — as Vogelsang. The book unearths the wonderful
a way to learn about the culturally-based rituals works by women directors in German-speaking
which inform each group’s particular relationship countries that have to date been largely ignored
to Nature ($12.95 pb, 0-89594-596-7). Love’s ($19.95 pb, 0-85496-324-3). Migrant Women:
Shadow: Writings by Women, edited by Amber Crossing Boundaries and Changing Identities
Coverdale Sumrall “gives voice to the complexities edited by Gina Buijs looks at the specific circum-
of relationship — the secrets, the disappointments, stances and repercussions that women must face
the betrayals, the fantasies, the losses, the obses- when adapting to new worlds and ways of life
sions and the violence.” There are 65 stories and ($19.50 pb, 0-85496-869- 5). Berg Publishers, 221
poems included in this volume. Among the contrib- Waterman Street, Providence RI 02906.
utors are Ai, Sallie Bingham, Laura Chester, Gloria
Frym and Tess Gallagher ($14.95 pb, 0-89594-583-5). Sex, Death, and the Angry Young Man:
The Crossing Press, Freedom CA 95019. BP, IN. Conversations with Riane Eisler and David Loye
by Mathew Callahan is a 120-page book in which
Cynthia Eller’s Living in the Lap of the Eisler and Loye express the view that the world’s
Goddess: The Feminist Spirituality Movement in present sorry state in terms of violence, poverty,
America gives us a sociological study of this impor- and pollution is the result of thousands of years in
110
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:14 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
which the dominator mode has prevailed over the
partnership mode. AÀ very interesting consideration
of our times. $8.50 pb, 0-87810-040-7. Times Change
Press, PO Box 1380, Ojai CA 93024. BP and IN. When the Bough Breaks:
Pregnancy and the
Trea tC ’'so f Af e Re o b bH eo r u is ne t hP er e Hs os u s eh a fs or p thu eb irl i s Ch ofe fd e e -J Toe -ssica Legacy of Addiction
Go Short-Story Series. A Robber in the House is Kira Corser and Frances Payne Adler
Treat’s debut collection, which Mary Gaitskill 9" x 12" Personal stories, poetry and photographs
describes as “rigorous and sensual, dream-like and “A beautiful, haunting, and committed book—a work of
| resolutely cerebral.” ($10.95 pb, 1-56689-007-1). art and an effective piece of social criticism. It can be
| Also from Coffee House is The Book of Medicines, appreciated on many levels and certainly deserves wide
a collection of poems by Linda Hogan ($11.95 pb, 1- circulation.” — Calyx
56689-010-1). 27 North Fourth Street Suite 400, Softcover $22.95 ISBN 0-939165-19-8
Minneapolis MN 55401. Distributed by Hardcover $39.95 ISBN 0-939165-20-1
Consortium, BP and Inland.
Blue Moon over Thurman Street
Ursula K. Le Guin
Two Moms, The Zark and Me by Jonny Roger Dorband, photographs
8-1/2" x 9" Handwritten poems, photographs
Valentine, illustrated by Angelo Lopez, is about a and postcards
child with two moms who gets lost at the zoo and
meets a rare animal called a Zark who saves him Le Guin has lived on Thurman Street for more than 30
from a right wing religious couple who wants to years, listening to its story. Blue Moon weaves a story
| cbf hoi in y ldd r f eh i nni m d ( e shn pie esw c i am lp lo ya mr e s tn . h t os A s. e T b oh e fae u t lZ i efa sur bk l i a n ba ol s o oo k r h goe f al y p s t r p it au rh m ee n p thl so )s . t for n Ao oo mf nt e r o iln a ci al fy . e p o . e f r Ta s oh p near at li ac u ul ga tr uh is o dt rr ee s de ’t , c tb ou ot l u l reof c t a oin v f e A m a o e r bi sc s ta en rr e w v ea a ty t io thn as t t cak roe s sy esou
A Ml Ay s o 0n 2 1 1P 8u .b l Bic Pa t i ao nn ds , IN40 . Plympton Street, Boston Softcover $16.95 ISBN 0-939165-22-8
| Lesbian writer Bev Jafek has published her first The C-Word:
collection of short stories, The Man Who Took a Teenagers and Their Families
| Bite Out of His Wife and Other Stories. Many sto- Living with Cancer
ries included in the collection have already won the Elena Dorfman
author critical acclaim ranging from the Pushcart 9" x 9" Personal accounts of five teenagers
| Prize to the Carlos Fuentes Award. Certainly an with photographs
` 4e 9m 9-e Xrg . i n Tg h e f e Om vi en ri ls ot o k l i t Pe rr ea sr sy , 1v 4o 9ic e W. o$ o2 s1 t. e9 r5 Sc tl, r e e0 t- ,87951- “Elena Dorfman knows the power of fighting the good
New York NY 10012. IN. fight and she knows the power of emotions. In this
book she captures the eternal goodness of the human
| The New Moon With the Old Moon in Her spirit in the face of adversity.” —John T. Truman, M.D.
' Arms by Ursule Molinaro is a witty novel that Softcover $16.95 ISBN 0-939165-21-X
records a rebel poet's year of waiting to be sacri-
ficed. Molinaro is the author of several novels and NewsSage Press
collections of short stories including Green Lights are 825 N.E. 20th Avenue, Suite 150
Blue, Sounds of Drunken Summer and The Borrower. Portland, OR 97232
$10 pb, 0-929701-29-1. McPherson & Company, PO (503) 232-6794
Box 1126, Kingston NY 12401. IN. O
Volume 16 Number 4 November 1993
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:14 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
HEINEMANN,
known for our African and Caribbean Writers Series, is pleased to announce the
launch of another series in world literature, the Asian Writers Series. Two of the six
launch titles deal with feminist themes; all have never before appeared in English and
are translated by some of the very best translators working in the world today.
All titles in the Asian Writers Series are original paperbacks.
— m o
The JFire Sacrifice The One Who Did Not, Isk
—— Susham Bedi Altaf Fatima
FTIRhEe H| iT nraDns dla t ie d - fr b o m. y tTh eh je O ,N ET rWanHsOlated from
SACRIFICE g 0 - 4| 3 5D-9a5v0i8d7 - 8R u$9b.9in5 B DID NOT ASK Rukhs aU nrd au b Ay hmad
An Indian widow 0-435-95084-3
|m ig wr ia t t he s h er n t o th r eA emoericavel question Thiss $ 1 f0. e95 minist
children to join her
| sis teer,s wthao b is l ailrseahdyed in New Muslim upper-
| | York City. The bal- class values and
ance of a new society explores the
w i ot nh to tt rh ade it i on n e ie s d a to hold mother-daughter
compelling theme. relationship.
Ask for a copy of our
Women’s Writing Catalog
1-800-541-2086
Or
1-800-847-0938 (fax)
November 1993 112 Volume 16 Number 4
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:14 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
l$l.
FIIF ILA
By Sandi Torkildson and Theresa Corrigan. movies like “Silkwood” and “The Color Purple.”
Weiss also looks at B- movies, European art cinema
PENGUIN/PLUME and the works of contemporary directors. Weiss
The American Way of Birth by Jessica Mitford opens the concealed sexual world of a host of
provides a history of American childbirth from the movies both popular and forgotten and reclaims
19th century to the present. Mitford explores con- the secret history of lesbians in film. $12.50 pb, 0-14-
ventional and alternative methods of birth and 023100-5, 160 b/w photographs.
midwifery; the costs of having a child, the effect of A social comedy novel by Mary Wesley, A
public health care programs (and the lack of them) Dubious Legacy, is a modern day Midsummer
and the high-tech hospital birth are other issues Night's Dream. On a midsummer weekend in 1954
that Mitford tackles. Furthermore, she challenges James and Matthew, two rather priggish young
the medical establishment's mistreatment of preg- Englishmen, take their girlfriends away for a brief
nant women with wit and unblinking precision. $12 holiday in order to propose marriage. It, of course,
pb, 0-452-27068-5. does not turn out as planned and the drama that
Sin Soracco’s new novel, Edge City is a crime- begins that weekend unwinds over the next four
thriller about Reno, a tough prison survivor who is decades. $10 pb, 0-14-017327-7.
trying to put her life of petty thievery behind her.
She takes a job as a cocktail waitress at the seedy Zil
Club Istanbul and is drawn into its world of sex,
schemes, drugs and death. This novel has lesbian The Sorcerers’ Crossing by Taisha Abelar is the
content but the copy is very vague about it. $10 pb, story of her initiation into a strange reality. While
0452270340. traveling in Mexico, Abelar became involved with a
The Meridian Anthology of Restoration and group of sorcerers and began a rigorous physical
Eighteenth-Century Plays by Women edited by and mental training process designed to enable her
Katharine Rogers collects seven of the best plays to breach the limits of ordinary perception. $11 pb,
from this era. In 1660 when theaters in England 0-14-019366-9.
reopened after eighteen years of Puritan repression, In a revealing study on sexist attitudes and the
women appeared on the stage for the very first double standard of sexual morality, Sue Lees exam-
time. Before the decade was over Aphra Behn had ines the power relationship between boys and girls
productions on stage and there was a flowering of in her book Sugar and Spice. She shows that girls
female playwrights. $15 pb, 0-452-01110-8, Dec. are increasingly developing strategies of resistance
against the sexual double standard. The book also
PENGUIN PAPER investigates how the girls’ resistance is producing
Vampires and Violets by Andrea Weiss is a fear and anxiety in some boys and is leading to
survey of lesbian identity in film that includes the increased violence and misogyny. Lees puts forth a
cross-dressing stars like Garbo, Dietrich, and blueprint for a broader approach to equal opportu-
Hepburn, and explores the issue in a variety of gen- nities, gender and education for both girls and
res from the vampire movies of the late 1960s, to boys. $12 pb, 0-14-016874-5.
113 November 1993
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:14 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Sounds Like a New Woman is a collection of
some of the most enlightening and outrageous
quotes by celebrities from New Woman magazine.
what her diaries concealed. The “Sounds Like a New Women” part of the book
celebrates those enlightened souls who continue to
speak out and question the status quo while the
“Thump on the Head” section reveals those figures
with particularly sexist points of view. $8.95 pb, 0-
14-017636-5, Dec.
The Anne Morrow Lindbergh: A Gift For Life by
Dorothy Herrmann is a full-scale biography of this
Erotic complex and gifted woman. From her privileged
childhood and her marriage to Charles Lindbergh |
to the kidnaping and murder of her first child and |
her triumph as a writer, this biography shows |
Lindbergh’s struggle to find her true identity amid
pressures of family and fame $12.50 pb, 0-14-
023238-9, Dec.
Salaryman by Meg Pei is a novel about, Jun
Shimada, a mid-level executive and corporate
climber who is dispatched from Japan to American,
where he will encounter injustices and be forced to
nais make compromises that he is utterly unprepared and
ill- equipped to handle. $11 pb, 0-14-017826-0, Dec.
NOEL RILEY FITCII
Author of S, ytvıa Beach and the Lost Generation
Zil:
MACMILLAN PUBLISHING GROUP
hy would a writer who kept a journal from the age
of eleven until her death at 74 need a biography? Liberty and Sexuality by David Garrow looks
wAn ita hïs e N xtin ra’s v a gce al ne tb r a set xed u a ld i ea xri pe ls o i tf se . a r Yle es ts l y th er e vco eu rn yt f a r a nli kf ne e sf silled a tt r o lt h pe r of hif ibt iy t- ioy ne a r a n s dt r cu ug lg mle i n at th ea dt ib ne g a tn h e w Rit oh e vb .i r t Wh a dc eon-
that made her a legend, according to those who knew her decision. Based on hundreds of interviews and
best, was often used to camouflage bitterly painful truths. archival research this book details the battle for a
Now, in this long-awaited account, acclaimed biographer constitutionally protected right to privacy fought
Noël Riley Fitch at last reveals the real Anaïs Nin. for by such women as Katharine Houghton
“This remarkably intimate, hypnotic, probing Hepburn and Estelle Trebert Griswold. $28 cl, 0-02-
portrait...helps explain the charismatic power 542755-5, Jan.
and abiding appeal of Nin.”—Publishers Weekly A book that offers advice to divorced parents
“Anaïs Nin left so many trails of clues about her involved in conflicts, Caught in the Middle by
several lives that she would confound Sherlock Carla Garrity and Mitchell Baris, explores both the
Holmes himself. Noël Riley Fitch has admirably causes and consequences of post-divorce conflict.
decoded these secrets and, in the process, shed $24.95 c1, 0-02-911330-X, Jan.
rf eu vll o l um tio oo nn a r yan d l i fs eu tn imlig e h t d i ao rn y . ”t h —e E a ru it ch a o r J's ong Wen dT yak i Ln ug s t bC aa dr ee r o af n dA g Nin ang c yF a m Hoil oy y m M anem ib se r as gb uy ide
16 pages of At bookstores now for both family members and professionals. The
book discusses issues that pertain to both care
givers and aging people. I included this book since
November 1993 114 Volume 16 Number 4
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:14 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Ril. ILTA lai AA.A
women usually care for their aging parents. $22.95 Colonel Ronald Ray’s book, Military Necessity &
cl, 0-02- 919517-9, Jan. Homosexuality and the official U.S. Policy on
How women have transformed sports and their Homosexuality. It will make a good reference
images in sports are the topics of Coming On source. $14 pb, 0-02-881080-5, Mar.
Strong by Susan Cahn. Cahn reveals the struggles
women faced trying to establish a foothold in n
sports while constrained by dress codes, off-field /\ ıl:
behavior codes and “girls’ rules.” $22.95 cl, 0-02- NORTON
905075-8, Jan. Hula by Lisa Shea tells the story of two young
Failing at Fairness by Myra and David Sadker girls in the early 1960s over the course of two hot
is a ground-breaking study of how gender-bias in summers. Narrated by the younger sister, this
American education affects the intellectual and novel takes the reader into the world of the girls’
social growth of girls. They have charted how, from backyard which is both playground and prison. She
elementary school through college and into the tells of her mother’s increasing withdrawal, her
working world, girls are systematically denied father’s volatile temper and her older sister’s
opportunities in areas where boys are encouraged taunts, as the girls’ sexualities surface and the par-
to excel, often by well-meaning teachers who are ents’ marriage strains towards its end. $17.95 cl, 0-
unaware that they are transmitting sexist values. 393-03589-1, Jan.
$22 c], 0-684-19541-0, Feb. A Muriel Rukeyser Reader edited by Jan Heller
A book that shows women how to protect their Levi gathers together a generous selection of poetry
interests when they get involved with men and and prose spanning the forty-five years of
money, What Every Woman Needs to Know Rukeyser’s writing life. There is an introduction by
Before She... by Lois Forer, is based on Forer’s Adrienne Rich. $25 cl, 0-393-03566-2, Jan.
experience as a lawyer defending women, and try- Kate Millett’s latest book looks at the practice of
ing civil, family and criminal cases that involve torture in the modern state. The Politics of Cruelty
women. Should make a great wedding present. $20 analyzes the fear that the state imposes on its citi-
c], 0- 89256-360-5, Feb. zens. Millet examines literature to uncover effects
A biography of Dorothea Dix, A Voice For the that fear has on society. Using a mixture of literary
Mad by David Gollaher, brings to life Dix’s fiery texts that include Mark Mathabane’s Kaffir Boy, the
intensity as she lobbied for the rights of the home- reports of witnesses, legal theory and historical
less mentally ill and spearheaded mental health accounts, Millett exposes the victim’s reality, the
reform in her time. $24.95 cl, 0-02-912399-2, Mar. social and psychological climate of life under dicta-
Pitied But Not Entitled by Linda Gordon, a torship and the fear of the state that has become a
professor of American history, challenges the cur- condition of our time. $23 c], 0-393-03575-1, Jan.
rent welfare system and the reform movements that Lost Star by Randall Brink looks at what really
have created a two-track system in which single happened on Amelia Earhart’s last flight. Ten years
mothers get ” welfare” and others collect “entitle- of research into still classified military and govern-
ments.” Gordon shows that welfare reform can ment files has unearthed documents that provide
only work if it recognizes that single motherhood is strong new evidence about Earhart’s last fight.
an enduring aspect of contemporary life. $22.95 cl, Brink pieces together photographs and technical
0-02- 912485-9, Mar. data that point to the Roosevelt administration's
Gays: In Or Out? offers two perspectives on the plan to turn Earhart’s flight into a mission in espi-
homosexuals in the U.S. military issue. It contains onage. $25 c], 0-393-02683-3, Jan.
Volume 16 Number 4 115 November 1993
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:14 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsA collection of writings from the journals, and Ellen, a younger working-class woman, who
diaries, and personal notebooks of contemporary has been Christina’s friend for years. $9.95 pb, 0-
Black women, Life Notes edited by Patricia Bell- 393-31101-5, Feb.
Scott, illuminates the complexities of Black Norton Professional Books will publish a book
women’s lives and offers unique reflections about to help victims of cult and spiritual abuse.
self, family, intimacy, work, politics, life transitions, Recovery From Cults edited by Michael Langone
violation and recovery. Included are works by bell looks at (religious, political, psychotherapeutic and
hooks, Jamaica Kincaid, Rita Dove, Audre Lorde, commercial) groups that are unethically manipula-
Alice Walker and several never before published tive and tend to exploit members and control their
women. $25 cl, 0-393-03593-X, Feb. lives. This book provides background information
A new edition of Overcoming Math Anxiety by and practical guidelines for mental health profes-
Sheila Tobias includes new chapters on mathematics sionals working with former cult members. $37 c|,
and sex and demonstrates how little we really know 0-393-70164-6, Jan.
about gender differences in brain function. Math
anxiety is still a political issue and Tobias proves Zil:
that math-disabled people are not dumb, but have
been taught wrong. $23 cl, 0-393-03577-8, Feb. Nissequott by Margaret Dawe is a funny novel
Early Work 1970-79 by Patti Smith brings set on Long Island from 1968 (when the narrator,
together her selected poems and prose from both Sheila, is ten) to 1973. This coming-of-age story
published and previously unpublished work, tran- about a gritty Irish Catholic girl has been called
scriptions of performance pieces and obscurely “accomplished... complex and appealing... search-
published work. $18.95 cl, 0-393-03605-7, Feb. ing and entirely credible” by The Review of
Marble Skin is a novel by Yugoslavian writer Contemporary Fiction. $9.95 pb, 0-8112-1260-2, Mar.
Slavenka Drakulic that explores the destructive
power of sexual desire when forced to compete HARPERCOLLINS
with the bonds of maternal love. A sculptor and her More Home Cooking by Laurie Colwin is a sec-
mother are forced together by a near tragedy and ond volume of the late writer's creative pieces on
must confront the ghost of a man who invaded food and eating. Part memoir, part cookbook, and
their lives long ago and seduced his way first into part essay on the pleasures of discovering, prepar-
the mother’s affections and then, unforgivably, into ing and eating simple, satisfying food, this collection
the daughter's. $20 cl, 0-393-03477-1, Feb. is concerned with the challenges of being a working
mother who still wishes to provide her family with
Zil: good healthy food. $22 cl, 0-06-016849-8.
A new novel by Louise Erdrich, The Bingo
The Word of a Woman: Feminist Dispatches Palace, tells the story of Lipsha Morrissey, the ille-
1968-1992 by Robin Morgan is a collection of essays gitimate son of June Kashpaw and Gerry
embracing a diversity of issues: housewives’ rage, Nanapuch. Erdrich brings together all the major
racism, world peace, neocolonialism and the changes families from her previous books in this look at life
in the women’s movement. Morgan documents the on a contemporary reservation. Lipsha’s love for
women’s movement from its raw beginnings to its Shawnee leads him to discover that wealthy reser-
contemporary vision. $10.95 pb, 0-393-31099-X, Feb. vation entrepreneurs are planning to build a bingo
Norton will reissue two more May Sarton nov- palace on sacred and cherished ground. Lipsha
els in trade paperback format with new jacket finds himself torn between success and meaning,
designs. Crucial Conversations is the story of a money and love, the future and the past. $23 cl, 0-
wife who has outgrown her husband after twenty- 06-017080-8, Jan.
seven years of marriage. $8.95 pb, 0-393-31102-3, Families on the Fault Line by Lillian Rubin
Feb. Kinds of Love is the story of the friendship looks at the lives, hearts and minds of working-
between the old Bostonian, Christina, her husband class American families from all different racial and
116
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:14 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
ethnic groups. Rubin interviewed nearly 400 men,
women and children about the social, cultural and
economic changes of the last two decades and
explores their impact on these families. She shows The Norton Book JA
how much these families have in common but how
the failing economy has helped to create seemingly WOMEN’S
unbridgeable divisions among them. $23 cl, 0-06-
016741-6, Feb.
Mark Mathabane, the author of Kaffir Boy, tells LIVES
the story of his grandmother, mother and sister in
African Women, Three Generations. He shows
how their lives were disrupted by particular events Edited by Phyllis Rose
in South Africa. From colonialism and tribal culture
to Apartheid and the struggle for independence he
explores problems specific to women. $23 cl, 0-06- “This remarkable and
016496-4, Feb. wide-ranging collection,
Listening by Hannah Marker is an evocative full of surprises, should encourage any
book about one woman's perceptions on the loss woman who is trying to survive in a
and remembrance of sound after an accident causes man’s world, and enlighten any man
h ine gr ad be oa ufn t e s ts h. e T eh si ss e n b co eo k o f i s la a nn g u aa gu et ,o b i co og mr map uh nic ical a t im onus- w rah ro y w wa on mts e n t .”o —un Ad le isr os nta n Ld u r c ieontempo-
and understanding of one who lives in a silent “Journals, diaries and memoirs are, in
world $20 cl, 0-06-017054-9, Feb. effect, ‘female art forms,’ and this inti- ;
Simone de Beauvoir and Jean-Paul Sartre by
Kate and Edward Fullbrook sheds new light on the tion is a ge m8 of an example.”
relationship between this matriarch of modern fem- —Robin Morgan
inism and the father of existentialism. Using new
available documentary evidence, the authors show
that de Beauvoir was the dominant partner in the Now at bookstores
relationship who led the way both intellectually D NORTON 500 Fifth Avenue, New York, NY 10110
and sexually. $25 cl, 0-465-07827-3, Jan.
Zil Moor T e,h e a I l Clu anm ai dn ia at ni o n w r o itf e r A , l i ic se a M fa ell mor iy ni s tb y r eM via su ior nee inn g
of D. H. Lawrence. Alice, a Woolworth’s store clerk,
HARPERPERENNIAL searches for the mystery she finds in Lawrence’s
With A Daughter's Eye, a biography of Gregory novel and thinks she may have found it in the per-
Bateson and Margaret Mead by their daughter Mary son of James Chant, a Lawrence scholar. $7, 0-00-
Catherine Bateson is a moving portrait of a family as 647493-4, Feb.
well as a look at their extraordinary scientific A new book by feminist psychologist Harriet
achievements. $12 pb, 0-06-097573-3, Jan. Lerner, The Dance of Deception, explores the roles
Bone by Fae Myenne Ng is the unsentimental of pretending and truth-telling in women’s lives.
journey into a family’s life in San Francisco's Lerner reveals how the struggle toward truth-
Chinatown. This novel takes the reader into the telling is at the center of our longings for intimacy,
home of the Leong family and considers love, loss authenticity and self-regard. She offers guidelines
and the clash between generations as they try to about when to speak out and when to hold back in
come to terms with the “modern world.” $11 pb, 0- a world that rewards female silence and pretense.
06-097592-X, Jan. $12 pb, 0-06-092463-2, Jan.
117 November 1993
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:14 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Genie by Russ Rymer is the story of an abused all women, young or old, single, married or
child who was strapped to a chair in a closed back divorced, who want to take control of their person-
room by her deranged father until she was 13- al finances. Worksheets are included that will help
years-old. This is the account of her rescue and the reader identify their financial goals, make wise
exploitation by scientists hoping to gain new investments, help themselves out of debt and plan
insight into language acquisition. $10 pb, 0-06- for retirement. $12.50 pb, 0-88730-625-X, Jan.
092465-9, Jan. —Sandi Torkildson
The firsthand experience of survivors, practi-
tioners, coroners, cops and the children of women PUTNAM /GROSSET GROUP
who died of illegal abortions are retold in The (Juvenile)
Worst of Times by Patricia Miller, a long-time Fat Chance by Lady Borton is about the rela-
abortion rights activist. This book makes clear that tionship between a little girl, home from school
it is not a question of whether or not women will recovering from rheumatic fever, and a blind,
have abortions, but what kind of abortions they three-legged cat. Through this secret relationship,
will have. $12 pb, 0-06-099512-2, Jan. Chancy learns to trust a human and Marty Louise
Fear of Finance by Ann Diamond is written for learns to write. $14.95 c], 0-399-21963-3.
Yoshiko Uchida, author of 25 books for young
F O C€ US ON readers, uses her own Japanese-American heritage
THE PAINTINGS OF to create The Bracelet, a story about a 7-year-old
PATRICIA WYATT girl who, along with her family, is relocated. Her
best friend gives her a bracelet that becomes a sym-
bol of friendship and the power of memory. $14.95
medicine women c], 0-399-22503-X.
In Fox Song Joseph Bruchac tells the story of
Jamie and her Grama Bowman. Grama Bowman
takes her granddaughter walking in the woods and
teaches her the ways of her ancestors, the Abenaki
people. Fox Song celebrates the beauty of the nat-
ural world and the knowledge passed from genera-
casebound $28.00 tion to generation. $14.95 cl, 0-399- 22346-0.
Virginia Fleming’s sensitive portrayal of a child
with Down’s Syndrome shows young readers the
joy of unconditional friendship. In Be Good to
Eddie Lee Christy and Jim Bud learn that Eddie
Medicine Women, L ise e d ei ds i ca an te da s s te ot tt ho e t “h be eir au tt yr i p o f t o d i fth fee r ew nco eo .d ”s . $ 1T 4h .9is 5 b co l,ok
ublications for and about women abound in 0-399-21993-5.
Pomegranate's calendar, book, notecard, postcard, Sadako is the younger reader’s version of the
poster and bookmark lines. In addition to Patricia Wyatt classic, award- winning novel, Sadako and the
we feature the talents of many women artists, including Thousand Paper Cranes, a 12-year-old girl’s
Frida Kahlo, Betty LaDuke and Susan Seddon Boulet. poingant struggle against leukemia, the “atom
S Bee o ow kha st w ae Ih nav le a nto d o f af er B i an k t eh res e &ca t a Tlog as y: la o rM o v ai n g Bookpeople. bomb disease,” based on the true story of Sadako
Sasaki. Illustrated by Caldecott medalist Ed Young,
for more information please write or call: this storybook combines illustration with simple,
BOX 6099 ROHNERT PARK CA 94927 moving text in the hope that Sadako’s message of
| 800 227 1428 a 707 586 5500 peace will inspire children all over the world.
POMEGRANATE $16.95 cl, 0-399-21771-1.
—Theresa Corrigan O
November 1993
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:14 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Alyson Publications... Mother Tongue Ink... iie
Ancient Memory Naiad Press
Bi Bblio OPress O n kpeople i aa r Ea s in 8 8 C2 N New o l oSa g e P rPr ee sss s ....…………
Cheryl Traendly Productions
Cleis Press.. ertet
ClDotheuspinf Foeveur Prres s.. .Editions...
Epona Graphics Plume
FFemrinieste B r oaSdcIasSt I QeuarrtSerl y e....s...… 17066
Harcourt Brace Jovanovich PPomOegrSantate- APubPlicaptioOns l .l...o Press...
HaHworeth i Pnressemann... Rutgers University Press... o.
Spinsters Ink
Impertinent Press SHONg BINAeTY.-sei e enana
Indiana UniYersity Press... 57 Temple University
LavLenderi Cthrysttal lPreess . .….… ………B….…….OWI. itii TTenh Siperedd .PSreissd/Ceel es tPial r Aertsss s.a.r. aseeni
Lizzie Brown /Pleiades Jewelry ........…….... 34 Torrance Publishing
Looking OUt Productions.. A 90 University Of Imos.
Modern Language Association... 60-61 University of North Carolina
Science Fiction ..…. Continued from page 84 Wraeththu by Storm Constantine This hefty
(752 pp.) trade paperback collects the three volumes
paper in November. In 1492, as three other ships set of Constantine’s trilogy — The Enchantments of Flesh
sail from Spain, a fourth vessel, powered by a and Spirit, The Bewitchments of Love and Hate, and
genie, escapes the Inquisition carrying (among oth- The Fulfillments of Flesh and Desire — about a her-
ers) several nuns. The book’s great joy is its narra- maphroditic, psychically gifted race that is gradual-
tor, a nun-scribe with prying eyes and an impious ly gaining dominance of Earth. All three were much
pen. $4.99, 0-812-513-452. and justly praised for their extravagant language
The Jaguar Princess by Clare Bell. In the Aztec and eroticism. Of particular interest to gay book-
empire, long before Columbus’ day, Mixcatl, who stores. $17.95 pb, 0-312-89000-1.
was abducted from her people as a child and Xanadu 2 edited by Jane Yolen. This second
enslaved, shows unexpected aptitude as a scribe — annual collection features 26 stories and poems of a
and tendencies toward other, stranger powers as blessedly nongeneric sort, 19 of them by women; if
well. By the author of Ratha’s Creature (YA) and you're beginning to think that fantasy is nothing
People of the Sky, this novel also plumbs the artistic but neomedieval kingdoms with trolls on the side,
impulse as Mixcatl is moved to paint both the styl- try this. Authors include Ursula K. Le Guin, Delia
ized glyphs with which Aztec history is written and Sherman, Diane Duane, Patricia A. McKillip,
3it 1e 2m -0s 9 7f 0r 4o -m 2. her life. A compelling read. $22.95 c], 0- B3arb1ara2 H-am8bl5y, 3 an6d 8Ter-ri 8 W,in dl inJg. $a18n.95 . c l, 0O-
119 November 1993
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:14 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
SI
POSITIONS AVAILABLE Experienced Editor offers editing, copy editing,
proofreading and writing services. Reasonable
General Manager Toronto Women’s Bookstore. rates. References available. Contact Ann at Feminist
The Toronto Women’s Bookstore is Canada’s oldest Bookstore News, 415-626-1556.
women’s bookstore, started in 1973. The TWB now
i fn o r i t ts h e2 0 Tth or oy ne ta or wis o m a e nc ’e sn t cr oe m mof u nb io tio ek ss . Tan hd e Gin ef no er rm alation Attorney. Review of literary contracts and other
publishing related legal services. Moderate fees.
Manager's position is a permanent, full-time posi- Contact Gay Young, 700 Washington St., Suite 3
tion based on a 35-hour work week. We are looking Upper, NY NY 10014. 212-691-3124.
for a feminist with strong managerial skills, book-
s st ioo nr e f e ox rp e wri oe mnc ee n, ’ s c r lie ta et ri av ti uty re , a n ad n d e n at h cu os mia msm it, m a e n p t a s t- o eM dF itA f W orr i t ce or n t ew ni tll at nr da n s cl la at re i t yin . t o T r aS dp ea sn /i Hsh o. n oW rai rll i u malso
anti-racism and equity. Written applications will be only. 4.0 MacIntosh w/printer? Typesetting?
a Cc oc mep mte itd t e u e,n t Til o rN onov toem Wbe or m e1 n5 ’, s 1 B9 o9 o3 k. s tH oi rr ei ,n g 73 CV Aic t o 9r 2i 1a 7: 5 .619-229-1196; PO Box 151455, San Diego,
Harboard Street, Toronto, Ontario M5S 1G4; 416-
922-8744 or FAX 922-1417 (Please mail a confirma- BOOK SEARCH SERVICES
tion copy if you fax your application.)
SERVICES AVAILABLE The Women’s Room. We carry a good selection of
used and out-of-print books. Catalogues issued reg-
Experienced Editor can handle anything from light ularly, plus free search service. Prompt attention to
copy editing to heavy rewrite, fiction or nonfiction. all inquiries. Write 832 Fort St., Victoria Canada
Rigorous but sensitive. Publishers preferred; writ- V8W 1H8. Fax: 604-361-1812; Phone: 604-361-3288.
ers considered. Contact Susanna J. Sturgis, PO Box Heather Graham, bookseller.
39, West Tisbury MA 02575; 508-693-7109. FOR SALE
)» >3 2 - C Xc c< International Guide to Periodicals of Interest to
) »P) O B PL O X B U o s5N (tD1 o 61 n,A , K 7M e An m P 0o 2R r 42e 1 2E 5S €7t S a Ut -S Sio A 9n (< e TF de u!m c s i o$n n9i s t p As p, Z d L 8e t 5s o 7b 3 ia T 3n .sus, n aa mn id RG ea cy o r dM s,e n P. O O v Be or x 4 40 20 2 8 l 2is ,t-
1 ) 8 46 e
CLASSIFIED ADS
FBN Classified Ads $2 per 25 characters. 25% dis-
THE LUNAR CALENDAR: count for 3+ insertions paid at one time. Payment
must accompany ad. No charge for “Help
De d $i 1c 7at .7e 0d pto o s tt ph ae id G Wod ed e ss hs ip i n g iH fte sr eM va en ryy w hG eu ri eses W POan t e Bd” o x l is t 8in 8g 2s 5 5u 4p , t o S a1 n00 Fw ro ard ns c. i sS cen od , t Co A F B N 9, 4188. O
November 1993 120
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:14 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms“Traendly, through her lens, has
captured the essence of the physical
and emotional challenge of the Gay
Games III.”
-Roberta Achtenberg
Asst. Secretary for Fair Housing &
Equal Opportunity, Dept. of HUD
Pictorial Remembrance!
If You Missed It ...
Be There Now!
150 Black & White Photographs
Women Athletes Celebrating
Who They Are
V Physique Y Physically Challenged
Y Powerlifting V Track & Field
Y Swimming V Martial Arts
Y Soccer Y Softball
Y Volleyball Y And Morel
— ORDER TODAY —
Distributed by:
Bookpeople
Inland Book Co.
and
Cheryl Traendly Productions
P.O. BOx 68
Eldridge, CA 95431 Photography by Cheryl A. Traendly
For further information call:
(707) 579-3898
$14.95 ISBN 0-9634389-9-9
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:14 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsА ТОО ,ООО- Соғу ғҒіғ5т РғімМтімС
КБЕ МАЦЕ СЕМІТАС
МытігАтгОм
АМО ТНЕ
ЗЕХОАС ВСЕЕМОгЕМС
ог Уомем
УУаггіок Магз і а попсой | | | | | |
поуе] Роѕѕеѕѕіпе е Ѕесгеї оў Тоц. № і
ап іпуеѕНеайоп іпіо Ње ѕиЬјесі оі
ГГетоа!ПІе овемпі-каи! р т ин Іќаооп, ЊАе с теііц а !УаІКег$ Беѕі-ѕеШпа И
сітептсіѕіоп у ћоѕе Нуіпо уісітѕ
птітЬҢет тоге Њай 100 тіШоп. Тһе Н МИЛИ ш |
Бгиќа! ргасіїсе маѕ гесепу сопаДептей РуР ИИ ШИНИ
Ьу Ње УУогіӢ Неа Огеапігаоп. Тһі
пем БооК іѕ рагі тетоіг, рагі
ігауеІоєце, рагі рһоіовтарһіс јоштеу.
Соашћог Рганһа Рагтаг 15 а Ет
Јігесіот мі мһот Асе МаКег
ітауєіед ю ргойисе а Ғеаіиге Віт, аІо епііНеЙ У/аггіог Магкз. Тће Біт,
сиггепіу Беіпе ѕстеепей іп Ње Опіќед Ѕіакез апа ЕпеІап, уі ђе геіеаѕей Б» |
Ње ВВС іп ЕпеІата іп Осіођег апа іп Ње Опікей $какеѕ Іакег ів уеаг.
НіСніІСНТЕО УІТН ЈООВМА: ЕмтвтЕ$, СОММЕМТАЯУ, АМО РНОтосвАРНУ5 НАВСООЮВТ
МАТІОМАІ. РОВСІТҰУ АМО Аруєвтізімо
ІВМ О-15-1ОООб1-1 • МоуЕмМВЕК * $24.95
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:04:14 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms