Bookstore
News BING
September/October 1997
Announcements
Fall
Volume 20 Number 3ee
Bookazine® is the source for your Bio.
lesbian and feminist bookstore ae
needs. We would like to introduce| ~ weet
you to Rebecca Blom, our new
sales representative to the
lesbian and feminist bookstore
market in our continuing effort
to increase our ability to better —
service your bookstore’s needs.
Openanewaccount with —_ |
bookazine® and earn an additional 2% discount applied to’ all
orders placed during your first three months as a bookazine® 4
customer.
information about Opening an account or with
any questions you may have regarding our
development plans. She can be reached at
(800) 221-8112 ext. 7561, Monday through
Friday, 9:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. |Feminist Bookstore News
742 we ge
It's taken me a few decades to under-
stand that the Chinese maxim, “May you
live in interesting times” is a curse, not a
blessing. “For sure, and it is,” I can imag-
ine my great aunt Mary Moynahan
agreeing. This relative (I can’t say forebear
— no one’s ever mentioned that she had
any children) is one I’ve only recently
learned about. “She traveled the whole
world selling books. She had a wonderful
life,” my grandmother is reported to have
said. To be a woman, single, and traveling
the world (or even upstate New York) sell-
ing books a hundred years ago.... Now
that sounds like the best of interesting.
But then there’s that other kind of
interesting, the curse kind, where “interesting” is a Perhaps there’s a relationship between the public’s shift
detachment-kind-of-word for chaotic, undependable, to superstore shopping and the new focus on highly
or defying logic and understanding. That’s the kind of discounted bestsellers. Perhaps there’s even an overt
“interesting” that the bookselling community has cause-and-effect relationship between the growing
lived with these last five years, and it’s taken too many “if-it-isn’t-discounted-I’m-not-buying”
mind set and
good independent bookstores down. Last year “inter- the decline in hardcover sales. Maybe all those walls full
esting” hit the small presses in the form of tsunamis of of row after row of “bestsellers” actually distract the
returns that drove cash flow into negative figures would-be hardcover buyers from the real books.
month after month, as books “sold” two or three or And then there’s that most “interesting” contra-
even five years previously suddenly reappeared in the diction: The explosion of chain stores has doubled the
office, oftentimes damaged beyond salability. amount of bookstore space in this country, but book
But now “interesting” has hit publishers’ row, sales haven't increased proportionately. Shipping out
too. The long-term effects of financing the superchain twice as many books just means that half of them (OK,
explosion with all those special deals are coming 45% and rising) will be returned.
home to roost in the form of a growing returns rate But corporate publishers have invested heavily in
(45%, according to The American Association of Pub- financing superchain expansion: the loss from those
lishers) and a 12% decline in hardcover book sales. “special” (albeit illegal) discounts and deals, paying
Now here’s an “interesting” connection: Perhaps all the legal fees associated with defending those dis-
the decline in hardcover sales has something to do with counts and deals, and the money lost to the chains’
the closing of so many excellent (and hardcover-selling) skyrocketing returns rate. Corporate publishers are
independent bookstores over the past few years. stuck throwing good money after bad. It would be one
——
September /October 1997
Volume 20 Number 3Feminist Bookstore News
thing if this strategy worked. But it doesn't.
HarperCollins (which has just takena loss of $270 amounCo tr po ofr at me o nePu yb li is f he tr hs e y Co cu ol ud t sq Vea Tremendous
m ti al kl ei no n a — v eryn ear “l iy n te3 r5 es% t ino gf ” th ae p pc ro om acp ha ny t’ os itsv al fu ie n) a ncih aa ls b toe s gt es te ll ti hen g teb no ok ors , twP eu nb tl yi sh ti hn ag aa crth u abl ei sh O $0n ly oot kh se
t a l ° F b
pw uo be ls: i sheit s’s eag co hi ng y eart o (fcu rt o m b 1a ,c 6k 0 0 t th oe 1,n 0u 0m 0b )e sr o aso tf obt eit ale bs l ei t || bs oel tl he er r , lis st os mi es ot no eo € (x PP ee rn hs ai pv se . thR oa st eh e Pr thy 2Nm a 8k 0e tot h ae l l be ths at t.
to focus, it would seem, on the kind of titles that the | at The NY Times who decided "iE businesg People
superchains and the price clubs sell best. Other pub- | bestseller list to Barnes & Noble T
lishers (Random House and Grove, according to a remuneration, of course)
recent front-page NY Times article), are turning to the ence of chainstore buyers
superchains for advice on covers and, well, whether to would be bestsellers. The Publishers books
publish a book at all. Not that the chains are telling the publish only the winning titles, thereby Mic: then
publishers what to do, the article hastens to point out, | mous amounts of money. Customers could b enor-
it’s just that if the chain buy isn’t big enough, well, the big books or go read the Internet. my Me
cb Toob f uiovo m re oo e rb r kk s u s ’ nWey thle wg dl ae r ht es o ta ss r t'ct s asu fc m eoa r h egn e a n oc t v ftae s e al bf te oed i rp bw o. pou e ob e n srnl sT aiuh lm tsi p p loh es e r ie v r e nd edcs g, s pihc cae . btn ai i liia t nn s . inr ds fi g ro o ho, n peh mf e ura o rvi lpn e t a iy th e r sw a a a hdh t re n i s o no.c i ifh a ?a n B c d ut ga te to io p vh e erTca e nn hon ae dn ld it ef tr N tn yu o h.Ytl l | tmtrs hhht e o ae ao c tni ip l r. e a wsyA i it l m l lht la or e iw vnr o a ey mln w rl e aa i i rt knn se t etdg h l ee y p , t pm eo ul“ o n bcc sdn lfo to e ie i.- r g n soyp du htp eo r i” r e aa a st gdt t e t o ot ,h u r ph e t ee yp s u fnhsb ia dful o tse pi wees d tr lh h ec ve e .eh tr t yo a os t' i vn i etc ns h io v, e nu e fsl etcd bdT h oh a oe td i a koy se n c s esi lac ud lo pe il eu nrl a g-d to
e t a c o k e u s b o i d , g e c n h e a c e oa bi n s s ‘
n r a R
directF iB oN has two sug &g& estions for two different Now that would be interesting.§
ns :
—Carol Seajay
—
Spring
November/ January/ Anno
December February March/Apri
Articles September 5 November 7 January 2
Ad Reservations September 12 November 14 Januaty 9
Ad Mechanicals September 19 November 21 Jannua nry ey 16
News Column Items September 19 November 21 January 16
|
Letters September 24 November 26 January 21
ee | |e
ST BOOKS
FEMINIST BOOKSTORE NEWS is the communications vehicle for letters are the cepa a ue utho sr hs. e d FE bM iI mN o nthly in January,
fth ee m inii sn tf or am na dl fen me it nw io sr tk - inco lf inf ee dm i bni os ot k stb oo ro ek ss to inr e ts h. e U.F SB .N andr ea Cc ah ne as d a 50 a0 s MN aE rW chS , ( MI aS yS ,N : Jul0 y7 ,4 1 S-6 e t 2e 1m 8b 0e r, B ryaa nn td StN ro ev ete m nbe e? p
tZwe eel aal cl ha ena rs d s, , f e Im n bi dn oii oas , kt Jb rao epo vak ins e we el rl a se n ,r d s K pi e un n b y lE a in s.g h l era L sn i d br, a ar ni dE a u nsr ,o f p ee m, W i no im sA e tu nst ’r bsa i l bi la iS, ot pu hdN ii le e ew s s pCB A eO aO r9K 4 S 11T 0O . R p gE e eN rE s e lnd aSe d dr Se aa s nse Fc ranpa ni ad c n ig se ca ost tS O Ca F An E MA I E | oes, RE ;
comprise the remainder of the subscribers. Signed articles and NEWS, PO Box : Volume 20 Nube
September/ October 1997
2=
Feminist Bookstore News
Edit Co ar r ol& SP eu ab jl ai ys her oF j N | E N I S
ee
Assistant Editor
Articles
Py
Nha) oeero ulietion PF uoB tn- tfN iee nst aC oa Sst a ol ro g o oFn nt th ine hiW ese b .r. .e. .c. .. .. .a. .c. .k. .e. .r. .... _ ... 11 97
C s i n of a e m t F bi r ... ,_ . 2 3
g t e W e
Columnists
Art Books Tee Corinne LB eo to tk ers st ore:News - . vrxi.. sseuenr esa e 13
Gay C Ma en na ’d s ia Ln i teB rao to uk rs e J Ra ic cq hu are dl in Le a boD nu tm ea s News/ShorR tP StoriPO ePE s ... .....c ea .. Be8 ant.a an 75
Humor Roz Warren ABA's New Vision Statement * New Trade Show to
Kids’ Lit Linda Bubon Compete with BEA « G/L/F Aisle at BEA Disbanded e
___ NeM wy st Me er di ie as DN oa rn o thCi yn n Ha ot le lr a nd AH da rr ip ee nr n eT ak Re is c h $ R2 e7 f0 u sM ei sl lio Wn h itC eh ar Hg oe us s; e C Aa wn ace rl ds « 1 C0 o0 - oT pi tles «
University Presses Mev Miller Report Launched ¢ Prozac Highway * ABA Condemns
Proofreading
Macmillan Policy ¢ Obituary: Gloria Greenfield
Danielle Bauter, Elaine Blake, BestSellOtS ic te< dep-a Setaceee eeee 37
Sarah Fallon, Kirsten Janene-Nelson,
Karen McKevitt, Cathleen Moore, Departments
Stephani ae n dP Sr uo sv ai nn We as l, l enD ue .n ,a Taylor, 23S, A Ad G IIn Nd Ge Ex N: ss a eee eee ee 424
Announcements: .. = <x. <de atea eesrie se tae 29
te, Art Back’ to PreSSn ayy 52a eee ee 33
Jan: Moo Classified Ads?" 4is. a= Sporn sine semnasene 124
Subscription Information .............. 24
HOW-TO REACH US They Went That-A-Way”: < v2 Santeeee 31
TELEPHONE GIVI a. cece, aig myst oan i ae ee 25
415-642-9993 Whiting Wanted. «0... seheee ee 32
FAX 5 The Books
eo ae ANtBOokKs ... oy. cic i) ai 5. Sada eee ae eels 51
U.S. pee Se Nc = Canadian Books .......... (will return next issue)
Femini Ps O t BB oo xo k 8st 8o 2r 5e 5 4 New MayMensiLlo il ti . move ee ts ee eat: & : 55
San Francisco CA 94188 fOts 5 sates Awlerstos ines (will return next issue)
DELIVERIES ISIC ‘ UE SS: 5 re arn 39
45
2180 Bryant Street #207 NIMISICS rs, ens oe ema yt, Oe a es *
San Francisco CA 94110 Mysteries Aee ree ee (will return next issue)
EMAIL INNGW) Modiateenr re: gs bea og 43
General Info: Dani@ FeemBlkNelwse.co m Curwn'Presses mune Oho, mo) ew te eee 61
Editor & Publisher: Ce ee care Piblishershow eeeae 105
A As ds vi es rt ta in st i ngE :di to Kr: aJen tn @ @ hFeFe mrm BB kk NyN ee ww sns .. c o m sie Fii cc t tion & Fantasy y ..... (will return nNexet issuaee)
Catalog: Lisa @ FemBkNews.com Shon Raves ee erase. rae. wh *
SMall PIOSSOS ee ce res gl ler MS eas ec aru =
Printed in the USA University 'PIeésSOS@e cous |
— Vol_ um e 20 Number 3 3 September /October 1997Bookstore News
Feminist
SS
MARY WoRESTONEGA
“Bap MOTHERS
AND 200 YEARS OF FEMINisms
The Politics of Blame
Twentieth-Century America — Edited by Eileen Janes Yeo
in
pee by Molly Ladd- Taylor and Lauri Umansky 1-85489-061-1 / $18.50 paper / September
Distributed for Rivers Oram Press
0-8147-5120°2 / $22.95 paper / November
WoMEN OF STEEL
S/HE
Female Bodybuilders
Changing Sex and Changing Clothes
and the Struggle
Claudine Griggs
for Self-Definition
1-85973-916-4 / $19.50 paper / January
Maria R. Lowe Distributed for Berg Publishers
0-8147-5094-X / $17.95 paper
November
WOMEN AND ALCOHOL
No MIpDLE GROUND Contemporary and Historical Perspectives
Moira Plant
Women and
1-85343-364-0 / $22.50 paper / September
Radical Protest
Distributed for Free Association Books
Edited by Kathleen M. Blee
FASHION THEORY
0-8147-1280-0 / $18.95 paper
January The Journal of Dress, Body & Culture
Edited by Valerie Steele
WoMEN OF THE AMERICAN SOUTH
“This is a perfect time to launch Fashion Theory.
A Multicultural Reader
The field of culture and history that it aims to cover
Edited by Christie Anne Farnham
is truly ripe for harvesting.”
0-8147-2655-0 / $18.95 paper / November —Andrew Ross, New York University
Already available:
CLIPPED WINGS
Volume 1, Issue 1: March 1997, illustrated
ISBN: 1-85973-966-0 / $13.95 paper
The Rise and Fall of the Women Airforce Service
Volume 1, Issue 2: June 1997, illustrated
Pilots (WASPs) of World War II ISBN: 1-85973-937-7 / $13.95 paper
Molly Merryman
Forthcoming:
0-8147-5567-4 / $29.95 cloth / December
Volume 1, Issue 3: September 1997, illustrated
ISBN: 1-85973-942-3 / $13.95 paper
Volume 1, Issue 4: December 1997, illustrated
INTRODUCING WomMeEN's STUDIES ISBN: 1-85973-947-4 / $13.95 paper
Feminist Theory and Practice
Second Edition For subscription
information,
Edited by Victoria Robinson and Diane Richardson contact:
0-8147-7494-6 / $19.95 paper / September Berg Publishers
150 Cowley Road
Oxford OX4 1JJ
WoMEN AND BULLFIGHTING United Kingdom
Phone:
Gender, Sex and the Consumption of Tradition 011-44-
Sarah Pink 1865-245104
Fax:
1-§ 85973-961-x / $17.-20 50 paper / Septem 011-44-
Distributed for Berg Publishers Z ner 1865-799116
| NYU Press
NYU | 1-800-996-NYUP. http://www.nyupress."Y y.edu
5
—__ Sn
September /October 1997
4Feminist Bookstore News eheL
Cet
LER
Ss
333 Main Street West The Demise of Our Booksellers Association
Hamilton ON, Canada L8P 1K1
Dear FBN,
Dear FBN,
When we joined The Houston Area Booksellers
Just a quick note responding to the Summer
Association eight years ago, it was dominated by
Sidelines issue.
established, general independent stores. The main
I would like to thank Margaret Philips for her activity was an annual dinner with authors, raising
thoughtfulness and praise of Ottawa Women’s funds for literacy. There were no joint marketing
Bookstore owner Peggy Harris. Peggy has been projects, no skill-building workshops, etc. The
donating her last year’s Books in Print to us for many specialty stores were treated like annoyances.
years so we benefitted from her generosity and miss
CZF |
her as well.
In the spring I was in the Kootenay Mountains
of British Columbia and stumbled across a family
making soap in a shed on their hillside. We’ve been Eventually, the general stores disappeared. For a
selling their beautiful product ever since and the few years, the specialty stores tried to grab the reins
store smells beautiful because of it. (Cathy-Ann’s and make the organization work. Then, most recently,
Kootenay Coconut Soap, RR#3 Site 36 C-5, Queens some of those specialty stores have disappeared. A
Bay, Nelson BC, Canada V1L 5P6.) This fall we will few joined with a few new folks that are selling used
also experiment with organic herbal tinctures and books. Unfortunately, there were no longer enough
essential oils. We’ve been carrying locally produced stores and experienced booksellers to keep the asso-
jewelry and sculptures for a few years and all these ciation going. Now it has disbanded.
extras enhance the overall appearance of the shop. The moral of the story as I see it? Forget the fancy
Our sales are steady with new/first time customers dinners. Focus on cooperation. Learn sharp business
coming in every day. skills.
I was interested to see the note on the dialogue Pokey Anderson
with bookstores owned by gay men who claim to be Inklings
the “first” in town when in fact women have been 1846 Richmond Avenue
there long before it was fashionable. Hamilton now Houston TX 77098
has a lesbian/ gay, male-owned bookstore and that
male has done exactly that: claimed to be first! Out Correction: In our Menstrual & Breast-Health Products
Wardly, we’ve been gracious but privately we've article in the Sidelines issue (Vol. 20#2) it was unclear that
been shaking our hairdos. Is this another case of bookstores can order The Keeper from Eco Logique Inc., Box
Women doing the work and guys taking all the 32073, 1386 Richmond Road, Ottawa ON, Canada K2B
credit?! 1A1; 800-680-9739, fax 613-596-6389, email (keeper
@magi.com), Web (http://www.magi.com/~keeper). We
Renee
apologize for any confusion this has caused. e)
Women’s Bookstop
—— September / October 1997
Volume 20 Number 3Bookstore News
Feminist
WAS sometimes hard
to remember
anything
unusual was happen inl
q
in the world beyond oyp
forest.
At least here
some recognizable
shape
remain— esve n now—~
to our interrupted lives” |
——from INTO THE FOREST
“Beautifully written ...
profoundly moving”
—San Francisco Chronicle
ea
“Powerfully imagined ...
a truly admirable addition to a genre defined mm
by the very high standards of George Orwell's
RB
1984 and Russell Hobans Riddley Waller
— Publishers Weekly, Starred review GIF
“Captures the essential —
FE
nature of the sister bond.
Carol Saline, co-author of Sisters an EE
Mothers and Daughters
ELB
ss available.
A Reader's Companion «> for copies:
=
Ask your BDD Sales Representative for cop —
a
reeB
Available wherever books are sold Hi BLL
Also available on BDD Audio Cassette
http:/Avww.bantam.com oO
September / October 1997 13Feminist Bookstore News
ABA Board Howorth, Neal Coonerty, Suzanne Staubach, and
Approves Vision Statement J cee rr sr y haB sr ac ae l. Th be enn om ni an ma et di :n g c wo ilm lm i bt et e ce aif ro er AB byA Mo af tfi t-
s o e i t h d
Miller and includes Barbara Morrow, Patrice Wynne,
The ABA Board of Directors unanimously Chuck Robinson, and Linda Brummett.
approved a new vision statement to serve as the over-
all framework for programs and activities for the
association for the next five years. New Trade Show to Compweitth eBEA —
The statement represents a radical step in the
direction of defining its membership as independent The Literary Congress (TLC), “a new trade show
booksellers and identifies ABA as an advocate for for book publishers and retailers,” will be held May
these stores. 8-10, 1998, in Nashville. Headed by Eileen Dengler,
It defines ABA's role as “a vigilant and active the former director of conventions and trade shows
advocate for legal trade practices” as well as other for the American Booksellers Association, TLC is
beneficial programs, and states that ABA engages in positioning itself to mount a direct challenge to Reed
partnerships with regional and other bookseller Elsevier’s BookExpo America.
organizations (uh, could this by chance be interpreted “BookExpo America has lost touch with both
to include the Feminist Bookstore Network? That ends of the business — publishers and booksellers
would be a radical and progressive departure!), as alike,” claims Dengler. “[BEA] lost its sales focus, and
well as ABA’s more traditional roles: education, began to look and feel like its sole purpose was its own
research, systems and software development, busi- continuation.”
ness support services, and help to incubate new Citing BEA’s escalating fees, troubled manage-
competitive models for its members. ment, and last year’s cancellations by Penguin,
The vision statement defines ABA’s Core Random House, Bantam Doubleday Dell and Simon
Members as “the privately held bookseller having a & Schuster, Dengler promises a cheaper exhibit space
Store front location.” It includes a vision for the inde- ($14 per square foot, with booths in three sizes vs.
pendent bookselling industry in the year 2002: BEA’s $25/sq. ft.), changing venues (1998 in Nash-
“Independent professional booksellers are skilled ville, 1999 in Phoenix, and 2000 in Portland, all in
retail business people who are a vibrant, influential markets that haven’t seen a show in decades), inten-
force in a diverse marketplace, economy and society. sive programming on business issues and operational
They are recognized as vital links between authors, aspects of book retailing, venues to promote new and
teaders, publishers and the community.” mid-list authors, and mini-sales conferences where
ABA’s strategic planning committee has already publishers can pitch their products to a group of book-
Met to begin developing strategies to support and sellers as a way to reduce overall costs of sales calls.
implement the new statement. In related business, the If BEA is large and corporate, The Literary Con-
Board named a search committee to begin the process gress is low-key and user-friendly, marketing itself
of selecting ABA’s new executive directory. Tattered under the slogans “What we need is a little TLC,”
Cover owner, Joyce Meskis, will chair the committee “Finally a show that is created for the industry, by the
Which will also include vice president Richard industry,” and “Back to the Business of Books.” Nice as
— Vo— lu— me 20 Number 3 September /October 1997Bookstore News
Feminist
ral al ht eh ra t ts ho au nn ds a, bt oh oe kss eh lo lw rsi ,s nr ee vc et re d at g00y
t t e m;
booksellers. While this is clearly a tet dependent
the trade show audience and telieve a to reynj
financial cost of exhibiting at BEA a fe Of the
smaller (but not necessarily cheaper) ana aS Several]
by different chains for their own staff, ind; Organized
ers aren't likely to be thrille 7 CHe-booksel-
d to be co . ;
chain-store staff for exhibitors’ attention eting with
An independently incorporate
nected with Reading Etter eae a
trade shows, The Literary Congress has a ane
Feminist theory has seven, including Sharon Weiss, former exhibits at
been at the fore- ager for ABA.
front of critical For more information, contact The Litera
analysis for more Congress at 2667 Hyacinth St., Westbury NY 11590;
than two decades.
Feminism and Film is the first book to apply such a 516-333-0681, fax 516-333-0689, email (readingent
@aol.com).
broad range of theory to contemporary film. From
Laura Mulvey and bell hooks to questions of re-
production, pornography, Black feminism and “the In related news, Reed Exhibitions, although
personal is political,” Maggie Humm explains femi- enjoying the BEA-was-a-success spin, is bringing ina
nist issues and offers a fascinating array of original
new team to direct the 1998 show. Chris Miller, senior
film analyses.
v-p at AE&S, and who had general oversight for BEA,
246 pages, 9 b&w photos
has been given a number of new shows to oversee.
paper $16.95 cloth $39.95
Tony Calanca succeeds him. Marilyn Harrington, v-p
and account manager for BEA, is leaving the company
IT'S
NOT
UNUSUAI to become v-p of a trade association based in New
York City. A replacement is expected to be named
soon. New BEA publicity manager is Tina Jordan.
A HISTORY OF LESBIAN AND GAY BRITAIN
IN THE TWENTIETH CENTURY
ALKARIM JIVANI
An informal history of lesbian and gay life in 20th
C we hn ot ur ly vedB rit ta hi rn ut go hl d it h ar lo l.u gh heth e ct loe ts ht ei sm on ty eyo f wt oh ro ese
i o t T h After three years of being assigned backat
p nt s t thh l oh eae a ie wt n gm gb n m ao lia nto c gh r tk d hye s te y a oa nt nru t dh e s he e ey Bd m a r, pl l or we at l ea ivh a nd re iu , fvg i uhp d l,t e l h yo ye p al n rm e d teu c ls a dti t l hc h le e ey d i,t st h tl h oe o i y v Tn e hgd ese , n j t rto h eh ay se t ue ld tt mhi a idn st gh ese a b se tu x i h=s h g i n mb e l i Bdo t E ac o A pa r u t ppsi . o h ohn a pas d v ie aa a t ts r esB e iE g giA tns o, e t de rf hee eidm n i sn u Ati ilhs se tt li, enu ’gl tl ie ls m nob a ci t aa e tn i . op ne r s o ™e n a* o ie en e on oe f
l o h
i t e r r T s e
'n Our Century, eager G/L/F Aisle for each of the last three Y°
Paper $15.95 cloth $35.00 to tell which of BEA’s actions last yooh ee Tocation we
UI NN TD V LAt Abo Noks to Are s line for each publisher: reneging 0? ihe
RSITY had negotiated for BEA 97, bumpin m for religious
PRESS its promised location to make more 100"
http dAwwOr wd .e ire nsr ds:: an1 a- .8 e00 d- u8 /4 -2 i- u<6- p76 r67 e¢9 lp ou cb al ti is oh ne rs g, vef nai li tn hg t ho ugr ee wa nr ud bo eu rr l oo fy
i nt-and a¢
s s
i e m fro nc eled,
esses ©
September/ October 1997 spaces that opened up as the ee omni
VolFeminist Bookstore News
—
moving The Aisle, instead, to the absolute back of the staff has, over the last several years, been reduced
hall (on a little peninsula that isolated The Aisle and from 200 to 35. Basic Books and HarperReference have
surrounding booths even more), the (broken) promise already been folded into the overall adult trade unit.
of a restaurant at the end of The Aisle to draw traffic, Kiener also anticipated that HarperCollins will
BEA’s response to complaints about this year’s loca- publish fewer than 1,000 books next year — down
tion —a series of patronizing and somewhat insulting from 1,600 a year ago. Earlier this summer, Harper
telephone calls that antagonized rather than mollified canceled over a hundred titles, including Rebecca
Aisle exhibitors, or putting us on a row witha huge Brown's The Dogs: A Modern Bestiary, which had been
pillar in the middle of it. announced and sold in Harper’s Fall catalog, and
Five presses (Feminist Bookstore News, Papier Domestic Goddesses, scheduled for Spring 1998. Thirty-
Mache, Cleis, Women’s Press /Canada and Firebrand) eight contracted titles were deemed “unpublishable.”
left The Aisle for better and/or less expensive loca- Seventy titles were canceled because the authors had
tions before the beginning of the 1997 show. missed their contractual deadlines — a practice
The Aisle’s poor location in recent years was due, almost universally tolerated in the publishing indus-
in part, to a shift in policy in the way ABA/BEA try. Harper chose to pay out the contracts rather than
assigns space. In previous years, location was based publishing the books, some of which were already in
on the seniority of the publishers who sponsored the production.
aisle (originally Alyson, later Naiad.) Three years ago, HarperCollins, the country’s tenth largest publish-
ABA instituted specialty sections modeled on The er, posted a $7 million loss for its third quarter. The
G/L/F Aisle and the University Presses area and company’s annual operating income declined by about
See G/LIF Aisle, page 27. 10% in 1995. It has been shrinking steadily since 1992.
Harper’s actions have prompted speculation that
the company is being prepared for sale, with Bantam
HarperCollins Takes $270 Million Charge, Doubleday Dell most often mentioned as buyer.
S Cancels 100 Titles —Info from The NY Times
Insisting that it is not for sale, Rupert Murdoch’s
News Corporation announced that it would take a $270 Adrienne Rich Refuses Kon ong
million charge against earnings for the 1997 fiscal year White House Award
to “revamp its HarperCollins unit.” The $270 million
charge may be the largest ever taken in the publishing Poet Adrienne Rich has refused to accept the 1997
industry. Pearson PL.C. took a $163 million charge in National Medal for the Arts. Twelve such awards are
connection with accounting irregularities at its publish- sponsored by the NEA and awarded by the President
ing subsidiary, Penguin USA, last February; of the United States.
Paramount Communications took a $140 million write- “I simply felt that I cannot be used this way,”
off against Simon & Schuster in 1989. Adrienne Rich commented later. In her letter of
The company said the charge was largely due to refusal to the NEA the political activist stated, “The
returns and author advances for unprofitable books very meaning of art, as I understand it, is incompat-
including, presumably, the alleged $4 million advance ible with the cynical politics of this Administration.”
to Jay Leno which did not pay out. The charge, accord- She cited the widening gap between those who have
ing to the company’s chief operating officer Jo Kiener, wealth and power and those who do not. “Art,” she
reflects expenses that have occurred over a period of continued, “means nothing if it simply decorates the
three to five years and includes costs resulting from dinner-table of power which holds it hostage.”
the closing of imprints, severance pay, and the termi- “Ms. Rich is eminently qualified to receive this
Nation of leases in New York. distinguished award from President Clinton,” Jane
As part of the revamping, the international Alexander, the chairwoman of the NEA said in a
HarperCollins work force of about 3,000 will be statement. “However, | certainly respect Ms. Rich’s
decision not to accept it.”
teduced by 460 positions. The HarperSanFrancisco
es September/October 1997
Volume 20 Number 3Bookstore News
Feminist
Chie: f of Staff, saiid d he money to bookstores and that CO-op ;
knew Al oe f x na on d oe tr h er Cr aa rr ty i, st we ae Info d d fe rc ol mi ne Td h e th Ne Y aw Ta ir md e. s | b coo uo rk ss ee ,l le tr hes i r to o wp nr om bo ot oke s tot rhe e . PublishO eP r s’is ba or oe kg s a Nn d,g e o f
—Info
In practice co-op mone Y is, alll too ¢
SS elusive carrot. Dangled, but unreachable Dae 4
|...
M< a 3 kes ThnP eer ozac A A dv " ocH ai tg eh ’w s ay To p L e1 0_ List b sp tu r ot e f ea sw c i et ddh ewa i etEm L h da ze M4 “ oC oao lf l smc y ao o lun lrf us tr oi e pn ’ hg a© vw er he q i’u acS i d hr u ele prm .aee .ll .mn .et ans t y s de x— c al lo le u f d,o e os
r e m t T A n t o
__ Press ie , ee Ha ie g Shw Sa y, ce ieby AP de vr os cai tm em ’so n T oB pl a Tc ek n 3 | wof ift ttee hnn ,, a as p as ro to icn u laas r a pust bo lr ie s: hef ri ,g ure ts h e ou rt e guh lo a tW i onto s do h ic no go e. p
Saal Aue Fall. The Septe2m isbsuee crall s this Too many smaller independent boo
Books to : ksellers have
rolllilci cking novel about cyber-journeys, pharmaceutical | written co-op off as unattainable.
p ee iean i Wes e : s n ef eor —a. e inf a pr- af pl eu Sn rog b aa cc kio omm tn hu k isn i Ft A a y la l, T ., r u e “h SB i tl oaO rr yi E ou w) s i. t h | lD ao ur no ctT hho y h He tl o hp l la Cb n oo d -o k ps ae n Rl d el pe oJr ra ts c k ie at h r S ao p nau nrg ukh as t ( ph Be uo bo lkc iGo cr- ar9 tl is o) h wa iv te he,
s e d e o , n l n
quarterly updates dedicated to assisting independent
booksellers in finding, using and claiming co-operative
; or advertisisii ng support froom m p publishers.
ik Ti pg roe deen aiece — Dorothy and Jackie have, between them, 15 years
oT Launched ee of experience as booksellers, and have worked exten-
| : sively with several bookstores. Full Circle
The theory is that large publishers (and some | (Albuquerque) says, “Thanks to Dorothy, the co-op
independents) provide co-operative advertising | advertising in our newsletter nearly pays for the total
CALYX Pooks rustisune povocerve citearuge ay wonen ro oveR TWO DECODES
| SECOND SIGHT DETAILS OF FLESH isn
<3
| A novel by Rickey Gard Diamond Poems by Cortney Davis () .
| Second Sight is an engrossing and With her unwavering and | i bike
thought-provoking novel.... Ten compassionate nurse’s gaze,
| years after a family tragedy, Cortney Davis conducts a frank
Gabrielle Bissonette, a woman exploration of caregiving in its
capable of tracking a deer and many guises.
rejecting Hemingway, finds she As if taki :
4 . S if taking testimony from
Lata cat! se aia fee as fe lover, daughter,
Scourging examination in order to mother Co Fp Davis gives us
attempt to understand the violence f y
at ii ts core. Readers of Second Details of Flesh—beautifully
Sight are all the ie for her ne ee utterly unforgettable #63
courage. PE Jean Viedaha thor of — Honor Moore, author of The 96 pages, ISBN: 0
Into the Forest White Blackbird 57-9 paper, $ f 4 95
H 23e 6a r pt ab ger se ak Sei p—n .g 9a 9ln 7ld Il Si Bf Ne - ba 0,f f 9i 3r 4m 9i 7n 1g .o. 5r. . :s 2oe fr i pSo pu es r, $CS t 4a .r 9et l in Ug dowo nr ek . Net
, t W 1a ;y L a :m . a u t h 5 ah e ’ s 1 o m 5 ; n Distributed to the trade by Consortj iu am:
ISBN: 0-934971-56-0 cloth, $28.95 800/283-3572
CALYX Books « pO
umber 3
September/October 1997 Volume 20 N—
Feminist Bookstore News
costs of production and mailing 2,500 copies of our
e i rn ei pg oh A rt l t- bp u sa iqg me u e lr ab rqi um seo un ct ch eal sn sy d s.n T e hw es let Bt oe or k. ” GT ah re d eS ne re in ni ty D enS vh eo rp sB ho on ud lsI n Ta h no ol me tt a t ser an st oo kt e M da tc htm ehi a tl l u“a ttn mh, e sl tA i B ghA st ehe rP a ir r oe t us e si d nd ee dn set ss igB ona far tb ia oor una
i e d m o r
cat tih v o oe a n ns i s ,e l u aN l tb to hs l eaw t e to ir Ce t o oot s n h ’ oe b o c ok c ok so Rn ts e-o s peo w op l rl l i tne e rd p s trg h oe e ng ar fa ta on im rd o ms n e wa ox i fp d e e ar f t i qi n a us a t ae n a rc i tt fa eh rl ra a lt c ts ih u oa pc ns uc be om ls f isa d t ahe -ei s dbc ti iao e rdn s c cte tn h Br leen o yyw, o ” s ks se rtra of ovn o mrerd , e si Me a n anm d td cp he mh ap itta e h ls en a li d r az p ee e un bd at l l wi l ist b o lh ho lwa i o et nk d es g s ne u jl tic ol onh ye d r cus op s, bo nt l t tri i tytc n eh i e rue a es s c a do a o ir m srwe cdh m oeou“ urlnv ne ie i t. nr - s” gy
- p . y c e f n e
pk o ai nrrt g o a v— n i iT cdz oh ii e ne t n g ai C a cno n tc “ - l eo u ip xd n e-e nmR ss fe t p oop t rro r ” mer e t a cd c iA o oy on - -- nn o ot ,pu po a -l c as — o ny dpI ss y t is e nu m c Se , f l o u eis r pd lm -iib bs s na t gs s i sc t oo ta tf hl el s pipey rut ba l ip u noips slst tiha rcr ea uit rn cee sd -sr bswtt eio uh lra ms ln aa, bbh llw a ea i yr vl ,e el t o a hb av fae d ua n v lvi e fel iaf la i n lb t atl c sae c pf g e er se cf o so ir m auo ltsm oa oal r ra eo dn wtn ey iug r dr se en .rof s r tM p sia o em lc le im e c ci et tl so i l , o a p nn a ay’ n o s d f t th wd ie i ti i l ls r l e, t s r bi pi alb r nlu es d-- ,
d t i a t t y - e
tions on how to begin collecting co-op. Co-op Report
Quarterly Updates include that most necessary ingredi- __ Gloria Greenfield :
ent in getting a co-op program up and running and “A Woman of Great Esteem”
collecting income: encouragement, as well as informa- 1925-1997
tion about changes in publishers’ programs and
policies, hints and tips for working with specific pub- Gloria Greenfield, co-founder and long-time staff
lishers including who to contact and ways to work member of the Vancouver Women’s Bookstore, died
with them, and specific ideas that other booksellers on June 30 of breast cancer. She was surrounded by
have successfully implemented. loving friends.
Charter subscriptions are $50/year and will pay Gloria was a world traveller who had lived in
for themselves with the first suggestion or bit of infor- eight different countries, but she settled in the
mation that is utilized to collect co-op dollars. Make Vancouver neighborhood of Kitsilano in 1972. A
checks payable to Dorothy Holland and send to Box pivotal figure in the Women’s Liberation Movement,
830, Placitas NM 87043; 505-867-9077, fax 505-867- she was a co-founding and sustaining member of two
1455, email (Dorothy@BookGrrls.com). feminist writing programs, Women and Words, and
Westword, as well as the Women’s Health Collective,
A Woman's Place, Transition House and the Vancou-
ABACondemns ver Women’s Bookstore. She was admired and feared
Macmillan’s Refusal to Sell to for her attention to detail. Gloria’s contribution was
Mid-Size Accounts her dedication and loyalty, day in and day out. She left
us as “a woman of great esteem.”
The ABA Board of Directors has approved a Gloria participated fully in her community. She
strongly-worded statement condemning Macmillan’s loved fine books, live music, evocative films, excellent
recent decision to stop doing business with small and food, and good company. She never missed a
medium-size bookstores (all accounts that ordered (Vancouver) Folk Music Festival or an opportunity for
less than $10,000 direct from Macmillan last year). a joke; when it was mentioned that the sun was finally
Ina move that ABA hopes will put Macmillan on out on the day she went to the hospital she quipped,
a “dis-honor roll” of publishers “with policies that “Tt would be.”
limit the diversity of titles available to readers...[and] Gloria is‘survived by her sisters, Fran Perlin and
diminish the culture,” the Board has given Macmillan Elsie Friedman. Contributions to the Women’s Schol-
the first-ever “Rip van Winkle Award for Out of Touch arship Fund, established by Gloria, may be sent to
Management.” The Award recalls Hagia Se Barb Findlay’s Law Office, #620-1033 Davie St.,
Irving’s character, Rip van Winkle, who slept for Vancouver —B MC a, rgV o6E D1 uM n7 n. (previously of Ariel Books) O
years while the world passed him by.
| September/October 1997
a 11
Volume 20 Number 3News
Bookstore
Feminist
Living on the Spine: A Woman’s Life in the Sangre de Cristo
= iS Mountains by Christina Nealson
LIV e (1-57601-003-1, trade paper, $12.95, September)
yon hes At age 40, Nealson spit good-bye to habits of luxury, built a small cabin in the
S PR 1 NE mountains, and wrapped herself in solitude for five years, renewing her spiri-
tuality while searching for midlife identity and self-sufficiency. “This is a spare
and gentle and passionate book, written with much heart and great feelings of
love.” —John Nichols, author of the Milagro Beanfield War and American Blood
“Christina Nealson is the West’s answer to Annie Dillard.”
A Woman's Lire ine if — Julia Cameron, author of The Artists Way
SANGRE DE CRISTO
MOUNTAINS
There’s No Place Like Home for the Holidays
edited by Sandra Haldeman Martz
(1-57601-053-8, trade paper, $9.95, October) New collection of humorous,
real-life family anecdotes about going home for the holidays. “Home is the place
There's where, when you have to go there, they have to take you in.” —Robert Frost
a - Si See ea ¢ $50,000 promo budget ¢ National media campaign
e Author events in 20 major cities
¢ National “Home for the Holidays” consumer contest
Wise Choices Beyond Midlife: Women Mapping the Journey Ahead
by Lucy Scott, PhD with Kerstin Joslyn Schremp, PhD, Betty Soldz,
BSW, and Barbara Weiss, MSW
<5 AOUES AF FAMPRE HALTER AN VARS (1-57601-051-1, trade paper, $13.95, October) Four women experts advocate
planning for vibrant life after sixty with advice on: finance, health, housing,
changing roles, and more.
¢ Foreword by Johnetta Marshall, President of Older Woman's League
* 6-city author tour
When When I Am an Old Woman I Shall Wear Purple loth
‘Sm - papier-petite series (1-57601-052-X, papier-pem™® © ie .
Ben $6.95, October) Celebrating the Old Woman's ten yest ae
fo day, its 45th printing and 1.5 million copies sold, this pee
version of the award-winning anthology is first mn oe
petite” series. e Counter display * Great stocking alia
Papier-Mache boo
ks ar i
Bookpeople, e available from Baker & Taylor, Bookmen;
Ingram, and Koen, or directly from Papier-Mache.
800-927-5913 627 Walke
r St., Watsonville, CA 95076
http://www.Reader
September/October 1997Feminist Bookstore News
KCEWS From THE BOOKSTORES
By Carol Seajay
producers are already eyeing the new space for con-
certs and other kinds of programming. And, of course,
My Sisters’ Words (Syracuse) is preparing for their
the cafe will serve coffee and coffee-to-go to all of those
10th Anniversary Weekend! Mary Ellen Kavanaugh is mid-downtown folks who need that cup of coffee in
publishing a commemorative booklet for the occasion. the morning on their way to work, thus generating an
The celebration begins with a ritual “blessing our past income stream from the mainstream, creating a com-
and encouraging our future” on Friday, October 3. munity space for women, and a new traffic pattern to
Saturday’s evening of celebrations includes guests bring people into the bookstore. The new location is on
Jamie Anderson, Irene Zahava, Pat Humphries, Nancy the same block at the old store, so customers can still
Bereano, Shay Youngblood, Rachel Guido de Vries and park in their favorite parking places. FBN Advertising
Jackie Warren-Moore. A Sunday morning brunch and
and Production Coordinator (and on-the-scene FBN
celebration will feature Sally Roesch Wagner, Donna reporter) Kathryn Werhane was in Madison to visit
Woolfolk Cross, Patrick Lawler, Mary Demetrick, and family and stopped by the store for a tour of the
Joan Cofrancesco. The booklet will include contribu- construction site. She says it looks like an enormous
tions by community members acknowledging “the project, but the new space will be big and inviting.
place that My Sisters’ Words has held in our lives over
the past decade,” an archival section telling the story of
New York State’s largest feminist bookstore, a section
on local businesses and organizations (“Keep your
business in the community; keep your community in
business”), and an essay by Mary Ellen about the
importance of this support.
“tourism keeps us going.” Summer sales are strong,
A Room of One’s Own (Madison) thanks to their summer stream of visitors from places
will be in their beautiful new store and without feminist bookstores. They’ve also done a lot
coffeehouse by the time you read this. of education locally about the importance of inde-
It's a great move — the new store is pendent bookstores. So far the chains in Northampton
twice as big as the old store and they've have primarily invaded malls and haven’t hurt Third
put ina coffeehouse, Girlfriends, that Wave’s sales, though it looks like at least one general
will serve all kinds of coffees, desserts independent store is going out of business.
and snacks (on-site food preparation to come). Girl-
Live and Online
friends will provide a meeting, chatting, and hang-out
from Your Local Feminist Bookstorel...
space for women. (Like many towns in the 90s, Madi-
son has no women’s bar and no other kind of social Once Upon a Time (OUT) Books broadcast
Space explicitly for women either lesbian or straight). Bloomington, Illinois’ Second Annual Pridefest —
The cafe is a perfect venue for readings and other Live and Online! — from a page on their Web site
(www.outbooks.com). “It was very exciting and fun
programs — and local music and cultural event
to be able to broadcast the event and know that
Illustrations by Hawley Wright, from A Room's Newsletter women could watch it from all over the world,” Tana
ee 13 September/October 1997
Volume 20 Number 3inist Boo kstore News
aa Med ld rum emailed E BN. “D ne t sp bi eat ue t ifa u lli y. [nis we e pd iid c tun ro et wh aa sv e upli dv ae teS dt re ea vm ei rn yg 30V id se eo c on( dli ke e T V) bu
mc eeo o ecS e ee our se it dir d n’a tt om ge el nes r aw te er e a nj yu st i nb cu oz mz e- ht aim ve e i as nya dj cu os mta mb el ne t at rh yr ou ag t h t hit sh e b rs oof ae de c asS t. (T
me a it eesinly brought a lot of attention to ning on it in the future. We just wanted Utare
es, the reaction was and how it went over tO see
What
aan work?” FBN emailed back. “Tl was working at the store and couldn’
a
“We hooked up a video cam to the compu ter aan d festival but we had our cyber-cafe sta oN tbeat th
then created a Web page just for the cae fest Web site and I was able to s €e whatt io Wn a so n hat he yj i ; a
fairly simple: The cam is about the size of a tennis a : even though I couldn’t be ther
and costs about $179. It hooks up to the printer por and then, since I could see what e. thO ef y C wo eu rr es e da oie n s a
and the keyboard. The software program we use, to call and give some pointers on how todoa Be had
WebCam, costs about $35. Hook it up, run the soft- (grin)... The customers who came into the store hen
ware, and there you go. It’s pretty much point and it was really cool. Some of them didn’t know she
shoot. We put ours on a tripod which helped keep it festival and decided to go — most of them stopped by
at the angles we wanted.” the computer booth and waved.
(www.outcafe.com/
The Web page was at pride- “We've had our camera for abouta year. Ourplan
fest). “When folks went to our page they saw a is to put it up in the store so that when folks come to
picture of what was happening at the festival. We our extensive online catalog they can also view our
Mentor-of-the-Month “One of the best parts of my job is being con-
stantly surrounded by all these books. Even though
Book»Woman’s Susan Post was the Mentor-of-the-
the publishing industry is a lot more open to women
Month on Girl Games’ girl-oriented Web site,
now than it was in the 1970s, it’s still sometimes
(www.planetgirl com). The mentor page featured a tough to find books with strong women and girl
photo of Susan, and a brief message:
characters. How many books can you name that
have strong, smart girls as the heroines of
“My nameis Susan Post and lown and
their own stories? Some of my favorites
tun BooksWoman, a women’s bookstore.
Feminist bookstores began during the here at the store are Catherine Called Birdy,
women’s movement in the 1970s when Memoirs of a Bookbat, A Ring of os
tw ho atm e tn he y al wl e ro ev ne ’r t bth ee i ngc ou fan it rr lyy rb ee pg ra esn ntto df ee il N thi ig ah t, V oiW ge he tt zi ae n d Ba Jt aca qn ud e lia nn ey Wbo oo ok ds s onby . ae >
e e n
mainstream bookstores Did anyone notice? This young
(usually run by
surfer emailed planetgirl.com:
the month. | love
¢¢ | loved your mentor of
ibrary the books
to read and in my school |
there are mostly love books which g at old after the
many 00 ks
first, oh, two. I’ve found it hard to fin
2 t Madele-
that have strong female characters, exksc,e and Vicky
ine L’Engle’s Meg books, Polly we like Sus4
books. | would love to have a books _J essica
Post’s in my town. 99
red thinki;n g 20° ut
Now if that doesn’t get us sta tion and descri®
how to connect with the next genet@ l value
feminist bookstores as something ne |
Volume 20 N
14_
s spt r to or oe n re ea s t a h it p ei es na et o t vha o it e a m Eoment e. e eWe t ah ei an sk e it wo hu al otd n o om u f sa k t =e € | 8Pto ia i vr$ et1 si5 c, i tp hg a ei nrl t is i s’ n stap r rr e uo cg a tr os rka em ds t h et $ o 2 o) e pttF iehe oam t n in oi g fao s es wt c ae t neoB c k eo t lho iaek i nhs geft a ao c d a ir le i ct w la aht sN io sce rs hw i fs
O soU oT B ho ao vk es ’ s sit he opre pc ie nn gt ly cab re ca tm ea akes ecu itr e ass iit ee a fn od 3to 0o sofe mw w Po om pe un re wgi os rte kr s. hoA pt st en rd ua nc se erv aar li e ts mef sr ;o m so3 meto
will n a t o m e r r - e . la r n ev i
customers to order. classes generate spin-off groups that continue to meet
at the store or elsewhere.
cR ooe lna vgl S Te ’vE mes r ht a ha l at ve m go lF ivn no it agr sh bes aC sa a !s ”g eh o hww eF ie l o hsw -r ee nap eto rer ggt yye d srt h ha at SK ona ncs gih eaa boayi ynnn o dc u l Rbnu eeg dT d ih e ensi d gw ccs o asm aR s e e u wa Wn em od xm li ce kn ad egr no rns’ .’ ts t f nRr w defw o a qrmo n Lr t k t srhs tete etoh ho ebT p eh s Ti r f d e m :f Vdi o W nr i Ta coWs ev at se s By e? fo u r’n ( og RsC " o aW lm wh trw eo eeo dm Nihs ee tea xayn trs
S ce n “ r e y . >a d s ie nd l e lrd e a l t a sn t aa e t . g t r Kf ao f in a rl | bi cu s a m e r p s a uo m i i d n Ut peh x :ti sr o i v e me hi t i n g e ds
ato rl rd veF dB .N Sa e’f se w sod la dy s foa uf rt er ot rh eat ht ohe sefi sr st sic nh ce ec k th( e$ n4 ,5 a0 n0 d) F ae nm di ni ds ot G te hn ie nr ga st io in m” p) o, tG ai nrl ts C tol ub ou( .“ for eg ai drl s G9 i- r1 l1 t to ta tl hk
i h m u
r y R s o e
has three good listings and another on the way. The Rescue and make up your own tales. No fee except cost
income from these sales “should bring in enough cash of book paid in advance, at 20% discount”), and Girls
to start whittling away at the back debt, putinsome | Club (for girls 12-14).
new merchandise and improve our relationship with Older women could choose from workshops on
the tax people,” she observed. goal-setting, integrating energy healing, reducing
“The Book Garden is gonna stay open, by golly! | stress during divorce, grief, southern writers (“Hot
Real estate is my approach to competing with Barnes | Summer Nights and Southern Writers’ complete with
and Noble. I can’t compete with them on a profit- lemonade and Sally Lund cake”), and a writing work-
per-book sale basis. They have their own gigs, but | shop. No surprise, there are recommended books for
selling houses is mine and it’s what I can do to pour | most workshops and, in fact, many events are
money into my store. And it’s a two-way street — if inspired by particular books.
the store can refer six deals to me per year, it will be Prairie Moon’s workshops generate traffic, sales,
profitable right there! and publicity reaching people who don’t otherwise
“I recommend real estate to any bookseller who’s | know the store, and they give people “an under-
tired of being poor, in debt, and without a retirement standing that there’s a woman’s comm unity, to plug
plan.” This is one happy bookstore owner! And she‘llbe | into if they just take advantage of it.
back in the bookstore, nearly full time, during real Linda Mowry reports that the group for 9 to
estate’s‘s “o“of f” months November and December, which | 11-year-olds ;w as “wonderful! The girls came baacc k for
i ii t’s hoppinging i1 n bookstores. a second series . They y had a g great time, . the facilitator
ee os just provided minimal guidance and, by the end, the
Vie girls ran the group by themselves. They were bright,
iS SAP articulate, and loved to read — and were a pleasure to
have in the store.”
Non-Author Events iy The older girls’ program didn’t run, but other
Author tours tend to hit the same big cities over girl-related programs included AAUW videos about
how schools shortchange girls. Prairie Moon did a
and over and over. And if you’re not in one of those
/ s. So the solution is to special window in conjunction with their summer
ae ae aoe Oe event Prairie Moon, in programming for girls that generated a lot of sales. It
m2 a:s O Sna ieo r n dine e on to t ra9 f0 f ic)m in ru ut nse s a a ww oa ny d erf fr uo lm | | Mfe oa ot nur ed i eth de bo aok es us oe f d thi en t mh oe the er-a dan ugh ter ea ;
wee iri and other related titles.
ASe cr aie ds mo yf .w ;o Tr hk es h po rp ros u an sd ,me ol ss etin p ga hhtn e veta e ec opde n "ft ,e eh, ea (r 4e bookcP lr uai br ie M to ho n s’ ts ren e ix t project is a mother-daughter
e ogg rr dm a o at nm eerr amtoe n e $ i n e o s o
run by facilitators an == September /October 1997
Volume 20 Number 3ae
Feminist Bookstore News
When it comes to both the bestsellers and the
best wm mdependent, feminist, and gy and lesbian
press, Koen is heads above the competition. Our
buyers have a real commitment to the titles you
care about, and eur fow minimums make it easy
for you te get the range of books you want.
—
are
September/October 1997
lume 20 Number
16Feminist Bookstore News
Feminist
Bookstore
Network
Catalog
Online!
~,
i:
Zi
By Carol Seajay with Amanda Johnston
What's Up
The Feminist Bookstore Network Catalog is on
the Internet, thanks to the vision and hard work of
Amanda Johnston, WATER, and a crew of volunteers.
This version of The Catalog features Jane Ever- bookstores will have this strong, joint, visible presence
shed’s painting that she created just for The Catalog on the Web. Feminist bookstores can link their sites to
—a vibrant, fantastical, feminist bookstore scene — The Catalog site, advertise its existence in newsletters,
the Feminist Writers and Readers Pledge, all of the on book marks, etc., and ask all your favorite news-
books that were featured in the Fall 1996 edition of The groups, elists, publications, et al., to spread the word
Catalog and a link to the list of feminist bookstores. about The Catalog’s address and existence on the Web.
The Fall 1997 edition of the Feminist Bookstore We'll be preparing a media packet and press release to
Network Catalog will launch on the Internet in provide additional information to the media. Please
November, at the same time the print version hits the call FBN or email (FBN@FemBkNews.com) if you need
copies for your local media.
mail. Most publishers who advertised in The Catalog
If you can help publicize The Catalog site, please
also subscribed to the Internet version.
call Carol Seajay at FBN, 415-642-9993 or email
We're very excited that (Carol@FemBkNews.com).
feminist bookstores will have this
The Brilliant Idea...
strong, joint, visible We’d known for several years that we wanted to
presence on the Web. put The Catalog on the Internet and discussed the
possibility with several different groups. Everyone
The Catalog will be located on the new Feminist thought it was a great project, but no one could do it
NB eo to .k cs ot mo /r ce a talN oe g/t )w .o rk We 'res ite v ery( htt ep x: c/ i te/ d ww tw ha. tF e fm emB io no isk t Jat ha sp A tr oni nc d ,e w Bte h e onc ko *u w Wl ed mr aa ef ncf ’o er i sd v . e d Aua sn ine )m a ri el idf er no tm cA omm pa un td ea
o n o o ( t s r
—a guru. She also teaches computer skills at WATER
illustration by Juliet Breese from Woma n'space magazine.
September /October 1997
—e 17
Volume 20 Number 3Feminist Bookstore News ——
(Women’s Access To Electronic Resources), a covers on this edition to one image
Rors a ek e e aa mn eiz tat ion in d ee led ci tc ra ot ne id c mt eo dip ar : ov vi id di en og , | eT vh ee n C =a ta wlo og m enpa g wes o rkw io nu gl g o n l oo | a ad esr eac, a eP °8% qu8 i0 ckth la yt
audio, and Internet/ HTML. WATER is committed to about three hours reformatting the images : “i Spent
empowering women to use electronic media for self- te a floppy disk. Saving
expression and social change. Amanda had just come Then, Ami, Sharon and I met deni a
up with a scheme that would solve a problem that | the images, re-sized them for the Site, and | ed at
some of her Web site design students were encounter- workshop on creating links to images, whi a
ing and get The Catalog up on the Web. . . about three hours. Then, Ami and Sharon gap oe
The students’ problem was that, as is true with | images and worked independently creating the links
most computer skills, taking the class isn’t enough. | to themin their text files. They each spent aboutth r
They needed a chance to practice and implement their hours on this facet of the job. ee
new skills. Amanda looked at their enthusiasm and Meanwhile, I HTML-ized the intn oduction, ei
ts dls hoo cu e g h g eg t rw de h eo u ses t u lt ,el e m dd ao s st o tbt te h a hda et e c y s o igt mr gh spe e an l y a ,itF cte ih apm se r ti o e hn j is di e i s tcs tett o,, p r yrcB .a o oo n o go d rk r ds af it mnoo maur tn ie ed n gN t te h het e h w et rwo si or em rk le k f , , i C na aat h nna e dd- r | hApof oa m g uie rc . so n at I ne ms dn ap t kes n i, St nh gaa ra n obd no s ’u ost mp el f e wid v oeg mr e ik h n o ouP rba r ag s ce k a, , do n j ua I s n t thd si m ps e. e nc n tr T te sh a e ,t n ae , nd o p t uw h tht e th e ire n n g]c t o hv rg te eo hr et e
links on each individual page, checking for problems
And How It Got There and generally getting it all together. I spent another two
Taske ““ d H o tA hw m ua gd n hi dd a it paw uno tdr ik n? s gh e H Tro he ew s p Com anu td ac e lh d : ti om ne td hi ed Ii nt tt ea rk ne et? ]” ch m ho a au k nr es essu up r sl e o na ci ed t i wn thog r nk a el wl d it ch oe hn lif hi n al ee v.s na 'In t’vd e tac m kh eae ndc ek i nn yg a tf it eh mwe m as ti i at ne o l.rt o
T o t [ t o g g i e h e a e l
would be a good way to get further exposure for femi- But | think you have to figure ina
tWan i aAs lgt ko eEob dRd o .o k ot s r Ct oa ao ti rr hn eie rns g a/ epb dr mo o ijo nIe ik c sbs t / fp bou orb osl ktti sohs ee rh me lw er es ro, m .e ta hnn d cI ew ow o jo eu wr cl etkd hw aa il dts o h hb a ee t coup Pl e mo n rt oh js ctof lr u kem in tha it .i n :-)9 time for
T o l fn tr a i n d e p r a n d s th e a p ee iZ s:
t
l s O n
ttg oo h - eta malh Cke aoa rnad o b, lo H u TtI a M nm dLte ht e I cpw cori odot j i rh e n r c g etA . s m pfi o oI r nd i dH td eh e e dn a t Wto e fwn obo r . - ha a n od cu or u S ph t la r ear io n on i f ngC w eo w ez i ka t sd h | s ito no gmf /ei tn tS i aho s l, ih k , n i I g n' bd gu t ls ia aky t e b h oet 4 uh 0 te n - u 5p 0m ar b no dec if e r s y ps o l o uf a t no w i no o n ik r c n lk gf u i dv h ee to hum etr o isn m s e it t wh ea .s s s p e Bf n upr t tro om tbs Ih at i uba nl wr ky -t
ct( h oa i un sd l , da no d gf e tc e o v Tu e hr r es ye o, C n ae tt ahe lw oeh gno tl ti ed c xa tr y as az s y )h .i t.t xW t ei fn i lf et i sh ge u torm ei gd ed td ol u ue t s t so thf aaa rtl tsl eho de ,f | | nt ah i tn ik n g yo tu i meh a fv oe r at o prf oi jg eu cr te li in k e a tc ho isu .p l :e -) ” months of rum!
and send me the images later.
e SP tkS to y hh e c Os p . aa ue .s er r r.p i .o so bW n f nlt o.h Ie h or s.e e np tn t lW oihS e f tteo ho I H r tW tTwt mr h ea e Ma ee bl Ltc k , a-te bfe i i u ii tdv c ln g ze h kg u e oa d or n.b se o o a ed fst u h ht TTe wo es h hu h ii eet ri. T m y t tihx h elt Oe C a o wa erf nw tai C as .l a a c e lt hts to t o, a o h g l et w o dI h g o om be b, e ra e t t kcp t yr ea k wi pnw dg en edi ert w t norh a d uiv be te n AA oc er d m um ri s ti-di i soe c t ond al fy a o inln r vda ed t , eso || dsilF fT f ii s oo oe s th r st aer e m u m e B o t f moT ih r aN feh to o e fe he k r a oe x N c rN mt n hT ai ee le eh n ltt px se i.t w s S oco tt hyC ese r o o at op uk me bt -s ! .p oa ). .o l. kow o. iri n s gW A tol e t zl pm' o rl s ao ril ib u n tt e e ar oe s d, ta at ealo ss a (oh n nb p si d oau o en si ns uay tl ds nra d r i ct e bt hhn en la a e g yc ew tp hh r h n heo e ev; p n a a #S e w wb,a i e a dl nf so lu d ion r p trd l dd ee ie se a wtr ent e ti o'ep thn wla hid ,g lg ese
a p r t w t a bp lp a y e
j r m n c t a
Once I received the computer scans of the covers and then again when the Fall 97 Catalog
epoI ‘ fJ h P mga d ef ii clt e /ho s ctt f oa o bk mr e th et 1e 9h e 7W m e ob .t uo e|c wa am (ip Wt eu e s d at duo n tir dle - c|f o dgr o em t a t t th oe t h lf ie i mm n ia tl in tl ht is eo t ein aiN lo )Mv oe r wm ieb e hr p. l a on us ii dn eat sh e anm da k si un gg g! stG ii ov: ne - a 30c al Nl mb(o eOr
| w h i a g s t s . h e i d
S t e b r O e r 9 | m t y r e ® u r i
aie
18Feminist Bookstore News
Adventures
on the Web
aa,
AB y WM oa mr ay ’sPi e St pr io rw is ki
Customer n t depleted, so, for $100 for two years and $50 per year
Recommendations there after, you can reserve your business name. A
little time at (http:/ /www.internic.net) will tell you
With all the hoopla about everything you need to know to register your
the Web most of us wonder if we domain name.
= [Gift Certificate|s }
| Corporate Connection | should have been on the Web The first step in getting the Web site up was the
yesterday...and if we should be layout and design of the whole Web site, including all
rushing on to the Web so we are the functionalities required. We then wrote a Request
not left behind. A .Woman’s for Proposal and met with a number of different Web
Spirit
(http:/ /www.woman companies to discuss processes and prices. Then we
spirit.com) is a virtual woman’s developed a business plan and applied for and
bookstore on the Internet. Origi- received a Small Business Association loan from the
|LitReraery nMusae e bna ol ol ky tow re we br ute cp ol ua ln dn in ng a jur se tt ia fi yl slo cc oa pl b oa fn k t. O pn rc oje ctw e ndr ec se ei lv ee cd fu on ud ri n vg e, dod re ,f in we ed ht ah de
s e o t e h e e a t ed n
it
- our business numbers. So we our lawyer draw up a contract that covered software
decided to take the brave new rights and legal obligations of the Web company.
step on to the Internet two years Expensive as it was, the legal work was a good
ago. Here are some of the issues investment, as we had to terminate our original
we have faced over the past two years as we |
put our business on the Internet. The two
main phases of implementation are (1) getting if > - 2 e <
the site up and running and (2) marketing the
Vf
Web site. Ke THT :
1
First, we had to clarify our purpose in ih 4 NS
being on the Internet. Since we did not have
a retail storefront we decided to have a full
blown site with electronic ordering and shop-
Ping and a robust search engine vs. an
informational Web site with ordering done
Via email. The very first thing we did (which
I recommend to all bookstores even if you
don’t yet have a Web strategy or computer) = we
Was register a domain name for the business. :
These Web site names are rapidly becoming
= =—
Volume 20 Number 3 19 September/ October 1997Bookstore News
—Fe —mi —ni —st — provides a forum for chien }
" THEKEEPER
women-owned enterprises, bing Information about
If you are contemplatin .
REUSABLE MENSTRUAL CUP = up on the Internet, I recommen invento
that will provide a catalog (database) - at Package
; The ultimate and shopping cart functionalities needeg re asa the
popular alternative to inventory of 12,000 or so books, it wontehe a Smalley
conventional menstrual to purchase and maintain a relational] datas, en
-
products Once we got the site up and running aa
was time to look at marketing. We have leanne it
1-800-680-9739
are still learning) many lessons about me
Free brochure. Wholesale the Web. We have found that, on the Internet a i
inquiries welcome.
identity and name recognition are extremely ities
gM ua an ru af na tc et eu ,r e Ld a stsb y ata lw eo asm ta n 1, 0 ye3 a- rm so , nt Gh r eam to n fe ory - ab ca tic vk e tant. Because there are so many Web sites eas
women, Worn since 1930s, No chlorine, Natural rubber, Internet, people tend to buy from those that are fami).
97% satisfaction rate iar to them. With all the media focus on the battle
$35.00 US between Barnes and Noble and Amazon.com and
their greatly discounted prices, we have had to
Eco Logique Inc.
~ We distribute in the US and abroad ~ employ creative ways to get noticed. The standard
WWW - htip://www.magi.com/~keeper
E-mail: keeper@magi.com advice to owners of new Web sites is to send your Web
Tel. (613) 596-6389 site name to submit it and it will appear on all the
Fax (613) 820-1626
directories. What they don’t tell you is that you could
Lesbian owned and operated be number 400 or number 1,000 under “bookstores”
and most people will not dig through all of those
listings to find you. We are listed on the directories,
vendor for non-performance and finish the job with but our studies have show that about 35% of our
someone else. customers hear about us from word-of-mouth, 25%
Two years ago, when we began the design and from Usenet groups and 40% from the search engines.
implementation of our site, there were no electronic We sent out a press release on the Businesswire which
shopping packages available so we needed to design was very effective in getting people to our site as well
and build the entire site from scratch. The expected as getting published in national publications. Public-
development time of six weeks turned into six ity through write-ups in small business magazine,
months as we struggled with the complexities of business and local newspapers, and college aco
shopping carts, taxes, shipping and search engines. publications brought us many customers: We a 4
We had to upgrade our systems on the fly because the find that we need to keep sending out aes eh
database power required for search engines is far speaking at seminars to keep sparking new pe os ie
Wgr oe mat ae nr s th Sa pn i ritt he w e u cs hu oa sl e c too m gp 0 ut one tr o tp hr e ov Ii nd te es rn. e t A wt ithA the site. We are looking into advertising links
a very large database of 400,000 books (Ingram) and Intern Oe ut r a es xpa en re ix et n cs et ep o. n the Internet has hes t ah ra dt
it takes a very long time to build brand te impor
People to choose from so generate enough orders to cover ape. all profits
b “o ho otk s. ooA W s,o ”m an b’ os Sp ri er vi it fead te ur rs e s to a lb iu sty i ng all o f k oi vn ed rs 20o 0f ot nan t tht eo no It teh ra nv ee h ai ng dh e tx pe mc ota vt ei on fs ro wf rW dE rear ef su il tl y in
b k ok e n t o o a e
assessing the business value of yout Inte
bookstores
This is the first in a series of articles about '
tions you
on the Internet. Please send comments or ee Soulaad
like to see addressed to (Carol@FemBkN Goes
mber 3
Volume 20 N
20Feminist Bookstore News
__ Fell Titles fron, Women's Press
Everywoman’s
The New
Almanac 1998
Midwifery
Women & Food
Reflections on
Featuring twelve interviews of women on the Reflections | Renaissance and
Significance of food in our lives, Regulation
iMt
¢ week-at-a-glance format Edited by Farah Shroff
Renaissance ©
menstrual calendar
ind The New Midwifery offers a
¢ resource directory
Regufarion | critical perspective on
¢ address section
women's reproductive health
¢ interviews, photographs, illustrations onesb y and issues. This incisive
ForA.o Shhro lf
¢ convenient compact size
collection of essays examines
¢ sewn or spiral binding the impact of
¢ NEW! a special recipe each month professionalization, legalization
$8.95/$11.95 CAN sewn 0-88961-222-6 and state involvement on
women-centred care and on
$9.95 $12.95 CAN spiral 0-88961-223-4
the perspectives of midwifery
Surnmer
consumers.
Spirit Alive @eper
$16.95/$18.95 CAN
A Woman’s Healing 0-88961-224-2
Anita Utus
from Cult Ritual Abuse
Jadelinn
The Summer
A clear and moving record of one woman’s healing Cat Caper
from cult and ritual abuse, Spirit Alive shares the
Anita Utas
process of healing through understanding and
A Woman's Healing The Summer Cat Caper is
integration, demystifies the meaning of classical
From Cult Ritual Abuse about the most amazing
Multiple Personality Disorder and counteracts
adventure that happened to
mainstream sensationalizing of cult and ritual fourteen-year-old animal rights
abuse. activist Ingrid Lundstrom and
Spirit Alive is invaluable to survivors of cult her best friends Geeta Benning
and ritual abuse, to their children, relations and and Larry Feeney.
Bolero friends, to therapists and other support workers,
$8.95/$10.95 CAN
and to general readers. 0-88961-225-0
$14.95/$16.95 CAN 0-88961-221-8
A novet ty Assar-Mary Santana
In the US all books are available through
InBook: LPC Group
Boléro
1-800-626-4330
A novel by Assar-Mary Santana ;
Translated by Louise Hinton in collaboration In Canada all books are
wRith ESuzEAaSTn nEDEe NeGSsr eni er available through
Bolérois a story of love and fascination for the University of Toronto Press
mother, an enchanting depiction of bonds between 1-800-565-9523
women. Ba/éro is an eternal dance, a metaphor for
the rarely explored sensual love for the mother. (cbrating 25 year i
Ce
$10.95/$12.95 CAN 0-88961-217-X
— September/October 1997
21
VVoolluimee o2 0 Number 3Bookstore News
Feminist
SENTIAL READINC
To Press @ Es
OVER THE RAINBOW
SONGS AT THE RIVER'S EDGE
Stories from a Bangladeshi Village Money, Class and Homophobia
Katy Gardner ; , Nicola Field
Ba an nt ger lii ann dsg edi dn sg h.a n o Gt[ ai ah nt r] e d, dr hrc eyo r'ou sm ame bx u iep n lve ii tr t yi aye n tic ae en d a vesp eser yceo if io nu g tn htd i ot f ms r oe o tn om ifs e t ah l¢ e c awh nia atl lhl yi‘ e snF n ii g se e l g d a' tys ot o tpw b hooe olt sl ih etl i- cd c bs uo el wc t p iu u r lm r o de a v eln i t d eee da sd c t ai a e v dx i m n u ec sh a rn ad n e ge ea d det dt ae hi eB e)
i e ] ne o c t ov c o nd r p ei n e l o n r n t n
intensity of its people make this a memorable book growing tradition of demonstration. cum? "
evokep si se tr ha er y, iveR ev ani de w coe nr ff uo sr edm an bc ye tha er t. lacA kl l oft h dos ie r ecw tih oo n aarned didsesgpreurnattlieodn o
‘[It] vividly l s e xperiences of the
ordinary people of Bangladesh, with their the gay movement have needed a good, book-len a
strengths, foibles and humour explanation for some time. Over the Rainbow oh
Minority Rights Group Socialist Worker (US)
Apr 97 © 192pp * Paper $13.95 » 0 7453 1094 X 1995 © 200pp * Paper $16.95 * 0 7453 0826 0
Library cloth ed $39.95 * 0 7453 1095 8 Library cloth ed $44.95 © 0 7453 0825 2
*PLUTO CLASSIC*
UNMANAGEABLE
HIDDEN FROM HISTORY
REVOLUTIONARIES
300 Years of Women's Oppression
Women and Irish Nationalism and the Fight Against It
Margaret Ward Sheila Rowbotham
‘A real contribution to understandi
‘Essential feminist history’
olutionary Ireland and, even more
Feminist Bookstore News
importantly, to our understanding
‘An important and valuable
of feminism as an aid to arriving at
achievement’ Elizabeth Long,
historical truth’
New York Times
Times Literary pup plement
1996 * 182pp ¢ Paper $16.95 « 0 90438 356 3
1995 * 320pp « Paper $18.95 « 0 7453 1084 2 Library cloth ed $49.95 * 0.90281 8295
Library cloth ed $54.95 * 0 7453 1085 0
sib WOMEN OF A
PHTY RARONER LESSER COST
BAD GIRLS AND DIRTY
Female Labour, Foreign Exchange
PICTURES d Philippine Development
The Challenge to Reclaim PORNOGRAPHY, os Sylvia Chant and
_ . Feminism FEMINISM AND THE Cathy McIlwaine
Edited by Alison Assiter INDIVIDUAL “A considerable contribution to the
_, Encoa mn pd a ssA iv ne gd on th e C ha ir so tl or y of ‘llt] A ofl fi es rso n an As is ni tt ee rr e sting develol pit me er na ttu re . .. o in t iw s om aue tn h ora in ta ationl
ch 1e 99c 3t m k L h iio ' e bBnv rug ae 1 ry a 8 ym 6 n e pot p cun li i Vt t F ot ,.- t eo * h, c tm r Pe i eA aeen ds p as ni ehdt r $ o c 5 r r 2r .$s a ie T 51o tah c , 05n il .ki 9mi «b 5 n ey e 0 l s »i 7f Ti o e 4s 0 e 5 v0 3m 7e w 4i 0 5o 0n 3d 5ri i 2 tt 3s ! 0 ’ht 5 2 7r 4e ad 5 ’ anc 1r d 9o ai 8dm Ll i 9 im w l c bt *e rar hu aeln L 1o rm 7 yt an i 6 a pg f bin p cr e n o l a omy a u tt i * hw, d r i ni e Pn it eaq dsh pg ue et / t r $ax h 4 cp e 4L . $l y ecp 91 a o 5r 5r f .i in 9oa tn , «5 fi i i l T 0qn ub *ru 7cg u r ae 40t ee v 5 3an 7 i 4w soa f l 5o 0h ofl 3 3 sa r 1o 9pt s 0 t o 5 hh 2 6r 1 e i n i ps 0 ‘L n 1r I i 9vt le 9l] 5f fs i ie i r bm *r cn a ooe if 3 en v 8n 4o yc pc e pmr u oe sm em nd aa s anat np ¢t t i n h ia Po e ecn a dn p ud ed o a $re 5G nu 9bj d .e sP aa 9 o t 5rm eo g- $24- r *gp r Uefa r 0a rs c oe e 7p ek a 4rs 5 r ne a’ 3 :a 0 9y B E vs aa e o e n J
See the Pluto list on-line at http://www.leevalley.co.uk/plutopress
a a a aoe n l ao e cl ao tc aal l ogb oo ck os ne tl al ce tr :. LPIn C ,c as 1e 4 36o f Wd ei sff ti cu Rl aty n door l pf ho ,r a Chc io cpy a goo f It Lh e 601 69 09 77
) 432 7620 © Fax: 800 334 3892 © Email: plutopress@igc.apc-org
mber 3
September/October
1997 Volume 20 N
22eek.
Feminist Bookstore News
Publisher’s Column
ETS
Confessions
of a
Feminist Firecracker
By Felice Newman Good Vibrations Guide to Sex, the most wholesome,
upbeat, life-affirming sex manual available, now with
In May, Cleis Press celebrated 17 years of publish- more than 40,000 copies in print.
ing by opening our new San Francisco office. Bicoastal Naturally, we've enjoyed our role as sex-positive
no more, Frédérique Delacoste and I now work ina | Firecrackers. But now and then, I get the feeling that all
spiffy corner storefront near Duboce Park, a neighbor- these Cleis sex books make some of our friends nervous.
hood nestled between the Haight and the Castro. No surprise. Sometimes Cleis makes me nervous.
After the move and all of the wonderful hooplah at I was terrified by Sex Work. In the mid-1980s, I
BEA— where we won three Lammys and werenamed | thought that a book on women and prostitution had
Outstanding Independent Press of 1997 at the Fire- to expound certain feminist “truth— smo”st of which
cracker Alternative Book Awards — this seems like a were contradicted by the real experience of real
good time to stop and reflect. women who worked in the sex industry, many of
Frédérique and I have known each other for nearly whom did not feel their work to be inherently
20 years; and although we have not worked under the | exploitative or dangerous or any of the other things
same roof since the early 1980s, ours has been my most | I'd learned to believe were true.
personally transformative collaboration, changing the Sex Work popularized the phrase “sex work,”
way I work and live and experience myself. changing the very language we use to talk about its
Over the past decade, we developed a line of | subject. To us, that meant the book was as uccess. The
books on sexuality and sexual politics. We began with | risk had paid off. :
Sex Work: Writings by Women in the Sex Industry in 1987, Sex Work taught me that in order to publish books
which Frédérique co-edited, then we went on to intro- that change the way readers view themselves and
duce readers to On Our Backs editor Susie Bright with | their place in the world, we would have to allow our
three collections of her essays, published in the early own worldviews to be stretched and challenged. If we
1990s. We gender-bended with Dagger: On Butch were to produce a provocative list, we would have »
Women, followed by Charlotte von Mahlsdorf’s I Am allow ourselves to be provoked. Likewise, I learne
My Own Woman, Lambda Literary Award winner that if I wanted to experience my sae! ped
Loren Cameron’s Body Alchemy: Transsexual Portraits, geous and open and Babigte 6 would have
and finally Pat Califia’s Sex Changes: The Politics of | allow myselftobe provokes as wes
Transgenderism. We published vampiric erotica by Sex Work, and all the aa oe: * ne ees sy
b to ht oh ogl ie es sb i oa fn s roa tn id g (a Sy itm ce hn , Hita tn ed ge an nd de r- qd ue eef ri an tt eoa rn- y_ || m dee irus S E uS et sa t cre cap re eeMa ceg tht Myo mf eor eta ebl e Hli ettl e
l e c a w r s) h s e > t i o e s
SRU iA St ae i Ima es ee sl o ur nw cae n en auo sea l wis te hrai eacS hE na es wk S ra eaa dt ii n g,i e ani di sah i th ea vt eno ff oe nr su ep cos nu dr pr ri es ae ds i nga ,n d, m ao kn e fi mr est
e e i r e
volume. We’ve published two editions of The New | feel uncomfortable. September /October 1997
—
23
Volume 20 Number 3PRP
Bookstore News
aFe minist mb er, Cleis will publish The | desires, when we are not ally ae
And eew, in f o N Ao nv ae l Sex for Women by Tri; stan own! ? (How to sell sex books — artniscy late Our
Ultimate Gu the only book on anal eroticism specifi- videos, toys, accessories and safer etn 1622ines,
Taormino — the ony her Cleis books, | feminist and progressive book Pplies — j,,
ore than ot Stores
oe a Ne oe tade insiders, selling a book | subject of an essay all its own.) UBAE to be the
‘m O
ve En. aie ¥, pit erd aun et ei tn g B, itto e say P ehth le e lea fs et e. l Me T eh si s dois w nse x the id s uc ra ot adi on a re at myit s emo est aSic. You who
ing aloud. Yet we are ask- y joining us in carvin Out a
ieally ae on the job of selling this book books in the world of bookselling voces tof Sex
ing pd i. malize” desire, widening the boundaries of Me
“ Nail = is almost always #1 on the censorship hit acceptable for women and men to want me
list. Canada Customs routinely used “Anal Penetra- experience. Sex books 81ve permission. In our Case
tion” as an excuse to seize shipments destined for | we publish The Ultimate Guide to Anal Sey for Women
lesbian and gay bookstores — until Little Sisters’ to validate women who do it, like it, don’t do it
historic court case, of course. don’t like it, don’t really know much about it, but
Of course, anti-censorship work is not all glorious certainly have the right to choose whether or not to
heroics. Some of us may simply feel uneasy selling sex explore this particular form of eroticism. Like the
books in a feminist context: Won’t men come in and | first booksellers to carry titles on orgasm for
exploit this literature — as they do everything else we women, by authors like Betty Dodson and Lonnie
create? Often we don’t know how to talk about sex Barbach, or even the first booksellers to carry books
with our own lovers, let alone total strangers. Who on lesbianism and lesbian sexuality, when you sell
among us was ever encouraged to talk about sex | books like these, you are expanding the “possible”
anyway? How can we help customers navigate their | for all of us. O
Ne eter eee oo Ban ee net emnaee SM SSSnt BAS tOb si e pewase anes eencnsdeusinecesnatcucnenstnbannessunhnewn shiv csc cue-ve~esccsseesoecevaecenwaancsserenntiiteCeretinsneaentaenee
| Check all the boxes you can and mail to Feminist Bookstore News,
: S | | bse i] be! PO. Box 882554, San Francisco CA 94188 or fax 415-642-9995.
: a Please make checks payable to Feminist Bookstore News.
: Name
Business Name or Affiliation
: Address
i City/State/Zip
:
: Phone Fax Emails. i: a8 ene |
CL] 1 yea— $r70. * Check enclosed. C2 Publicist ( General independent
C1 1 yea— r$75 . Bill us. C) Reader/Bibliophile CJ Alternative/political
| _L Plus $23 for international postage. F] Writer C1 Spiritual, Wiccan, New Age
: U1 Plus $10 for Canadian postage. C1 Other
: D1 Half yea— r$35 . Bookstores:
: L Sample copy— $6. Bookstores, Publishers, and (J We have one store only pal :
; lam/We Periodicals: [] Multiple locations: # of sto" —
are: Is your focus primarily: d by:
O Bookseller (see also column 3) C] Feminist : ee a women C men CD both :
a cee C Lesbian 04 of stock by/for/about women ;
Ou ce CO) Lesbian & Gay ~_ % of staff are women
: . . Mindvidi ub ar la ri aa ndn single store rates Oo ys seveanonened Oa
Se cbe:1997 $$ ee
24Feminist Bookstore News
TRIVIA
& COMMENTARY
By Carol Seajay that won’t make it to print will be books that would
have sold strongly in feminist and good independent
Drop everything and read Gayle Feldman’s bookstores. —And it helps to explain why feminist
article “Breaking Through the Glass Ceiling” in PW’s writers from Mary Daly to Jane Evershed have been
125th Anniversary Issue. It profiles the women who dumped from HarperCollins’ backlist over the last
have made it to the top levels of publishing in the U.S. six months or so. If you aren’t NY Times bestseller
— there should be too many to fit into a single article, material, your chances of getting published just
but there aren’t. In telling their stories, Feldman out- declined significantly.
lines the obstacles women faced — and still do — in The number of copies of a book that corporate
reaching the offices where power is kept. publishers must sell for a title to be “successful” is
No surprise, there are no women of color at the constantly rising as publishers acquire stockholder
top of the publishing world to include in this article. debt and obligations. Ten thousand copies was a
Elsewhere in the issue PW contributors write about respectable number when I started working in the
the excessive homogeneity of the publishing world, a industry, then it jumped to 20,000 copies, and now,
problem that has occasionally been addressed, but is some say (even while swearing that no one is count-
still mostly ignored —an approach that makes room ing), 30,000. Books go out of print before they ever
for “a few pretty faces,” but that prevents any system- reach their market. Publication opportunities for
atic change in the old white-boy network that controls beginning writers continue to shrink....
what is published and what people can read in this All of which boils down to the fact that we need
enormously diverse country. feminist presses more than ever. And of course surviv-
While reflecting on the effects of this kind of ing as a feminist press (or any other kind of
discrimination against women and people of color independent press) is harder than ever, no thanks to
(never mind, say, lesbians), I came across Sarah Schul- the wave of returns from the superchains, their fickle
man’s remarks in Gay Community News (Spring 1997): buying patterns, the vagaries and complications of
“None of my books have ever been bid on by a man, distribution, and the recent bankruptcies.
gay or straight. So, after 8 books and 14 years in the =>?
business, no male editor has ever thought that some-
thing I’ve written should be published.”
And there you have it.
But the news isn’t all bad: Book industry cheer-
leader Barbara Grier writes, “Book sales are
improving a bit even though video, to some extent,
keeps us out of hot water, we are happy that there is
These are interesting times, all right: Women, some gleam of hope on the horizon. Our self-distribu-
more than ever, want to make it in the “mainstream” tion, stubbornly held on to through the year, has
publishing world, yet that world is still significantly accidentally been our salvation. As long as there are
closed to women at every level. And it’s reasonable several hundred stores who need our lesbian titles to
to expect that with HarperCollins cutting its list by survive we will survive. Remember this when you
600 titles to “less than a thousand,” some of the books decide Barnes & Noble is easier than driving to your
a 25 September/October 1997
Volume 20 Number 3Feminist Bookstore News
eaeles bia Nn io ar wo hm ae sn ’s ee{ sto ar be l. . [ t[ oI t’s r] etn uo rt se tl f- se fr ulv li n sg aft fo oA nm ce er ic wa la en ad nea dll i tt os pu un bh le ia sr hd anV do ice cs e, l” brS
a d b n e n o a t e r e a te neh
ight. voices, p e the big corporate types . ur Own
: ohay there be equal portions of hope on the published some of our best She O at e i tnt heo
horizon for the rest of us. remember who gets dumped first Wie as IS to
vh ia ar bd a an nd t ro adk ye .e p our own institutio strong€ S anar ge
l e d e NS
And on the legal front
And on a definitely cheering note, Little, Brown There was a great rumor flyin aro Ve
is working on the first American Virago listand wants this spring that Barnes & Noble ee a toe
tosupplement Virago’s British-based list with titles by investigated by the SEC, something about eats
eAa tn m hd e n r ii ca cb ao bnu a t c kani gc d ro on uo Cc nal da n ss a .t di ic, a Tn h eir ywr 'e o rv m ee ere nn l t o, o f kr ie o nv m ge n a fos rvu ab rv wie rer t iys t i erv o se f ili t an cv u eo n rl d tv e ae r id i n ln ygw i wt d ah r s u ga fE um nu o r no we hp y i.e l a en N o i tb a ltn ar suk tt eh d w .i t ot h i t, a apr pe ap ru et na tt li yo ,n bi ue t
whose work(s) have fallen out of print who could be
sr ue gp gu eb sl ti is oh ne sd tf oo r Aa ac no dnt ae mp Mo ur ra rr ay t atr a Ld ie tla eu di Be rn oc we n. Send GalatrM oe ,a n iw tsh il foe r, erP e hn eg au di n ha cs edic th ar ag nde d coC llh er ci ts it oi nn se
m y t , .
m of r ,
with embezzlement of at least $1.4 million. Somehow
mwmicwwj B uanau yeus t rt ew dsM rth rio oo l e nr d ,ln e eea om pf tn ryr eeo sm w ta g t he bh ln te o et llwo erS k sia id ar bi nea rw as+ d ih h fi a+ c iS nt ch w gtc o eh+ u sI l y ent+ a e nm am oba r on bs ,v le arai ikr ig on y ro et , re dr rh ov ym a ,i aa p te tdn ]opw y ar: ay ieu“ seea a I ngb oyh oeo a nu uv tt re s. cSAtlsgP tt Bh i eh e rmea Av n pt e g onc nwu ro as ad i ut lto tttn aos e t/ es tAP a sn a e i’ s rdc uva gt s ue eo nr r yc es t u,i a ds io a si e en gnt ne c’n’ e tm cs ad tols ltdm ea tw ddl $ l itni i e1 l vk t f6 e th a5 avh tnya a vt rtnh em G.e s adi e dtel f lr Wl iu ai em i gale a o as htni n o no of f lw atr s as rp ii tp aor t oe eure wo c ule- Ji ab is eo ca y.l hf l . e af f. im “ed ai P ht s .Jo oe sb c mn me o pc lg oh u yo u ni tv si bt hn ee en nsd r
r r ci ry e rt de wee e r o t a b k e li s e bk l ei trn o e g o v p e udi r c sm r; e eo s : hp ut e l r r e e ti‘ h’ ss el e t or blt ; ie e c p nh b n o ia lglo i fnr m oi iu c n c n ial t o l a , ta h ee t n t t o po wh ok o l s so t w i a c [r a tte l o i h cn mc ea io n ’ t kd m t h ; r Id t e no n i tg lr l o o yy, t f a c ohe re e e , ‘m e ss b dlo e h o a cB nA le r t i c rn o t a l h au h o d a e d e ri h e o i e t s e s na t t x i t n t s m r thi eo i i o na I ln .c w g o s n d t r o r b y nf at sr e ”a f c or b o k o , -
c a b e n t t a t b
genre. I resisted that, but it is not easy.” ah
The main part of the interview addresses the
ways Schulman’s book People in Trouble was used asa
basis for the hot Broadway play, Rent. Rent, inaddition In yet another legal battle, NACS (the Nee
alslht a eo ney l s ds p b bb o iaie c apa ti r n on pn i s eg s a e hy l x( a: ,a p vh e eor r bwi w iup e eh t- “v n o ne e cf on wf r e ,h ceo bf os na t t md h S r el miac y ea ri )h r ug ,u t ch wl ht ioim e at rna i lktsn w ih’ cdis i v e st a e e ll d w um e e eo se e ”r bm d .k mie ., a en .n t d so il h Iw “l war cu irvi os rit et urte r le e a u lt ene aa vis bb a vv o no eet tu ru rh ” yt-te iouctA f nh nos e ffl ts eal eo rieA nc irg dBi nle ea A gy dt i b tlo do r fan io oaw s rk ds c esuo r tf ci i ot lm srs aC tie o sons rl saa , el rtn s e oed g e a mbh l e aa tl gsS te a t eg sio rf ei nr i .n se l g ts e p d) r i cca t si eh os s s ea lu t l eit e mta og, sk n et i han rlg b ee eo o en o eg ra o p c e aa g o tve he aa i t e e ttas hhr eee
d
o u I t
deeper issue here is returns, not the use ser sched-
books are put. How about a variable pane return
ule with higher discounts for oe for return
privileges: say 50% non-returnable, 80% discount
privileges for 10% of the books..up t0 60" Ort.
for fully returnable? This system woul ers pay for
who buy wisely while making high retum™
the costs of excessive returns.
September/October 1997
Ve olumee 20 n N umb er 3
26—_—_ Feminist Bookstore News
But my favorite lawsuit of the summer is Barnes group of dissidents from just slightly further back —
& Noble’s suit against Amazon.com for false advertis- including many in the “well-placed” university press
ing for Amazon.com’s “The Earth’s Largest section — who were very unhappy with sales. I guess
Bookstore” ads. What defines a bookstore in these the secret to success is selective perception: talk only to
Internet days: having the biggest database (Ama- the people who were pleased and you have an unquali-
zon.com) or actually having a lot of books in stock fied success. But perhaps I’m being unfair, BEA did
(B&N and every other bookstore in the world)? send a questionnaire out to exhibitors and even
Sounds a lot like 4-year-old boy-talk: “My ____ is acknowledged our response with a preprinted post-
bigger than yours is, and that’s all that matters.” Grow card that said our concerns were being addressed. My
up Amazon.com and get over yourself! B&N’s suit favorite question on the survey? The one that asked
seeks to bar Amazon.com from using the slogan, to how important it was to me, as an exhibitor, that booth
have Amazon.com issue “corrective ads,” and an locations be assigned fairly. Duh, take a walk! O
unspecified amount of damages. The suit maintains
“that Amazon.com isn’t a bookstore at all... It is a
book broker making use of the Internet exclusively to G/LIF Aisle, continued from page 9.
generate sales to the public” with no more access to changed the rules under which location is assigned to
the titles on its database than any (other) bookstore. these sections: Seniority no longer applies. Instead,
It'ssucha pleasure to watch the superstores take it out special sections are assigned to the outer periphery of
on each other, rather than on independents. We could the show — in the least desirable real estate available
actually benefit from this one, as opposed to the — and there is no discount for these peripheral loca-
B&N/Amazon.com who-can-offer-the-biggest- tions. FBN was advised that the sections would rotate
discount war, which just hurts everyone. around the hall, but for some reason the Children’s and
aceess University Press sections made it to the front of the hall,
while the G/L/F section was always relegated to the
back. (BEA continues to assign locations to other spe-
cial groups, based on the sponsoring group’s seniority,
The courts will decide this one but the stock mar- and it also allows publishers who wish to exhibit next
ket decides the one that really matters — How much to each other to average seniority when applying
money can you raise? Shortly after Amazon.com together.) The specialty sections are the only exhibitors
announced its alliances with AOL, Yahoo, and Excite, who are excluded from the seniority system. In an
stock prices jumped back up to $30/share, which puts informal survey of G/L/F Aisle participants, FBN
Amazon.com’s active worth at about $680 million — found only one publisher who knew that they had been
about six times its projected sales of $115 million. B&N excluded from the seniority system when the
actually has sales of $2.5 billion, but its stock is worth ABA/BEA offered The Aisle specialty section status.
only half of that on the market — $1.66 billion. Go Naiad, Alyson, and Spinsters will return to the
figure. Alliances are sexy. Projected growth is sexy. main floor and thus to a more central location based
Risk is sexy: The fact that Amazon.com's new alliances on seniority. Cleis, Firebrand, and presumably
are expensive — one analyst estimated that the com- Women’s Press/Canada, will exhibit with their dis-
pany’s sales and marketing costs for the year are tributors, following a trend begun by feminist presses
running at about 50% of gross sales — doesn’t seem to of shifting to these better-located, lower-priced
matter. Everybody wants to buy a piece of sexy. Who options at the onset of the specialty program. FBN,
cares if it’s a successful financial investment! Gynergy, and Second Story will continue to exhibit in
the Small Press section with Down There and Third
“Success” seems to have a very fluid definition. Side. Several publishers are reserving decisions on
BEA survived this year and the booksellers who whether to exhibit at BEA at all and/or have decided
attended had a good time. There were a lot of reports to wait to send their reservations in noting that
(from the front and center of the show) that exhibitors “many late sign ups in 1997 received better placement
had record sales. But there were an equal (if not larger) than we did.” O
e Vole um e 20 Number 3 27 September/October 1997Feminist Bookstore News
SW
BUILDING
BODIES
FEMINISMS
An Anthology of Literary Pamela lL. Moore,
editor
ReviT seh de or Ey itia onn d Criticism c" aA c to al kl ese cti oo n tho af tf er li on cg a Clv aa sl su ia cb ul se range of Critef
i-
d l n u s f
: 3 or bod ‘
Robyn R. Warhol and es: the built’ body.”—Susan Squier, suf
of Babies in Bottles Iwentieth-Century
Diane Price Herndl, editors Visions of
Reproductive Technology %
In the landmark 1991 edition of Feminisms, Warhol
and flerndl assembled the most comprehensive 224 pp. 27 illus. Paper, $17.95; Cloth, $48.00
collection of American and British feminist liter-
ary criticism ever published. In this revised edi- SISTERS ON A JOURNEY
tion, the editors have updated the volume, in
keeping with the expanding parameters of femi- Portraits of American Midwives
nist literary discourse, Warhol and Price Herndl
Penfield Chester
have again established the measure for repre-
senting the latest developments in the field of Photographs by Sarah Chester McKusick
"Sisters on a Journey makes these astonishing
feminist literary theory,
women real, in all their diversity, in all their
1,150 pp. Paper, $25.95; Cloth, $60.00
glory.” —Barbaro Katz Rothman; author of
TARA SCRIBBLING Recreating Motherhood and In labor.
288 pp. 27 b & w photos. Paper, $19.95; Cloth, $50.00
are WOMEN
NEW IN PAPERBACK
€ "eae SHOsy ne S reare5 r ay ee Short Stories by
I9tK-Cemrusy Angercan Vranen
I?th-Century OUTRAGEOUS
American Women
PRACTICES
Selected and
Introduced by How Gender Bias Threatens
Elaine Showalter Women’s Health
With stories by Louisa May Leslie Laurence and
Alcott, Willa Cather, Kate
Beth Weinhouse
Davis, Mary £: Wilkins fC rh eo ep mi an n, , R Che ab re lc oc ta t e H Pa er rd ki in ng s “In the tradition of Our Bodies, Ourselves a
Gilman, Susan Glospell, Sarah Orne Jewett, Eliza- other landmark women’s health books, up ie
nrPb f iere eet a nnsh di ec em to ro et srS et t e u ta hSr t -opt W o o ef o nafP l toh s ure o rl d snp y, a,s m , p lE Ad i mSiC nc eta grh rt i ih b cW ba aolhr f niai n rn gte to hen , W mS oe ebmd neag e snw n tdi wc rk iC s, i to n on rt ss ir ,H et o sa da r unr ci c e be e s yt or fe s Be oh sa o tr —w o c J nh u e t dd h ye W oc mmr eNi e ot nd ri i ’q sc su iae gl i ap Hnr e s Nao y l ev s a ti wt n hd e d e m s B uF o rs su ot tip l khl- e Bt r oo f g- Ca ii od l elsa R lt o ,ee m o c e tT , i Oc v uivex , e ro s.°m f :! a e 1hs
n c w o t e r O s e
448 pp. Pape! $18.95
$50 pp. Paper, $17.95; Cloth, $50.00
=2p6 -9323
September/OctoR beU T 19G ERS UNIVERSITY
PRESS * Available in boostores or call (800 V) lu4 me4 206 N- um7
r 97 o be r 3
28ANNOUNCEMENFem
Tinist B Sookstor e News
By Carol Seajay with Jenn Tust
BookWeb site (www.bookweb.org), CIBON features
The 1997 Gregory Kolovakos Seed Grants Recipi- ss te oa rr ec sh a ab nl de ia n sn eo at ra ct hi ao bn ls f bo yr 2 s, to0 r0 e0 nof mt eh ,e 4 c, a6 t0 e0 orm ye mb ke eyr
s e a g , -
ents are Paris Press (Ashfield MA), RedBone Press word, city and zip code. ABA member stores are
(Decatur GA), and Thorngate Road (Normal IL). Paris invited to send email addresses, URLs and/or
Press publishes transformative work by critically descriptions of up to 250 characters via email to
acclaimed but neglected women writers, RedBone (info@bookweb.org), by fax to 914-591-2720, or by
Press celebrates the culture of Black lesbians and mail to ABA, Attn: ISC Dept., 828 S. Broadway, Tarry-
promotes understanding between Black gays and les- town NY 10591.
bians and mainstream culture (see Our Presses), and ABA views CIBON as the beginning of a major
Thorngate Road publishes work exclusively by lesbi- centralized Internet Network devoted to independent
ans, gay men, bisexuals and transgendered bookselling and the book-buying public. The site will
individuals regardless of age, race, ethnicity and continue to evolve and may eventually offer such
nationality. Each press received $2,000. services as electronic commerce, chat rooms, discus-
sion groups, research data, and other information
Banned Books Week is September 20-28. ABA aimed at promoting bookselling and giving inde-
has free kits available to member stores for the 16th pendent booksellers a place to do business among
annual freedom-to-read celebration. Kits include a themselves and with consumers.
rane
resource guide (published by the American Librarian
Association), a list of books challenged or banned in
1996-97, and three posters — one for adults, one for
YA’s, and one for kids. Each of the posters features
the First Amendment and the “Celebrate the Free- In related news, ABA’s Industry Standardization
dom to Read” slogan and lists several books in that Committee has developed a Standard Chart of
age category that have been banned or challenged. Accounts (SCA) for member bookstores. In these
Banned Books lists (50/$10), buttons (100/$75), times of shrinking profitability margins (and shrink-
bookmarks (500/$35), and t-shirts (6 L, 6 XL/$110 ing margins for error), booksellers are tending to their
p Oe rr d erdo z. f) r oma re ABa Fls Fo E ,a va 8i 2l 8a b Sl .e . B rA od ad di wt ai yo ,n al T ark rit ys t oa wre n $ N30 Y. aa cc cc oo uu nn tt si ng ( thel ike a ccn oe uve nr t inb ge fo tr ee. r m A fn od r ta h e go co ad te goc rh ia er st o tf o
10591; 800-637-0037, fax 914-591-2716, email (aeis which expenses are assigned — inventory purchases,
overhead, payroll, et al.), makes financial analysis
man@bookweb.org). much easier and more effective. A good chart of
o n sn eal lmi len eA sB i sdA a C Ot nIah la b Bs ia O s nNer en o (fa Cm eoie tmnd wpd ore e rpa he knd n e d n .e s r n ie t vl ea vu b an o iIc o lnh k ade s bd et lo p er ei e nt ss d . oes nne tTa h r Aec Bh Aoa e ’ob ‘kel s-e wp ba u irc t tec hpo sau r on a tmt ht es ei t o in m aa iel dss ao ,n od f ip nr m ao a ntv h k ei i d an re cg u cs s o h ue nfi of tn fe a f c nsto teir t vm tea i wnt hb gi u oo s un i p n pe rasf iso or b r u id s tb e i io c n zit e esh s si s o ,n t ts aa o, xx r
e r e N ) A B
September / October 1997
1 29
Volume 20 Number 3Feminist Bookstore News
p ar cce op ua nr ta st ii o dn o es0 ve nr o t f pin ra on vc ii da el a rn ea al dy is li ys , aca c es st so ir b. e l’ es dc ah ta ar t foo rf rr ae tt iu or sn co an l cun le at t edw or at nh d a wn ed i gh“ eT dhe d7 i ffS erc eo nr te ]? STOups of
ing financial decisions. ix bined to produce a single fixture which; then com.
A Np wented by this problem, by difficulty experi- predictor of the likelihood of bankruptcy), USed as a
enced by stores that tried to contribute ae s By computing these Performance me
the ABACUS study but who found that their Ss °6 one’s own business and comparin; g them aSures f Or
ries were just too different, and by boo se 7 average results reported by Similar bug; With the
comments that the ABACUS data is of limited value i ABACUS, a bookseller wil] gain a biel in
dth ee vy e l Ao Bc pa An e ’’ d st tc Sho te m ap nS da t aar rne dd arit Cd ato C h ta t rh oe t fi r o Af o cAw ocn uc o nu ts n si t t su .a it ni co ln u, esA B aA sts h ut e ca cn ed soi spn .e g r atof i oa nn d aa n d bet tt he ur s ha in nd cl ree a O SeN V ta her ii ro us haa nS cP eec st s fe or o r- f
c
h r c d ll
the accounts (categories) necessary to be able to The easiest time to change to a new chart of
report store’s results to and compare them with the accounts is at the beginning of a new fiscal] year. But
ABACUS. It also includes the accounts necessary to the best time to consider and evaluate a new chart of
deal with federal and most state and local tax issues. accounts would be several months before that transi-
It is assumed that stores will use the accounts that tion would have to be made.
are useful to them and skip over inappropriate or Copies of the Standard Chart of Accounts are
overly detailed sub-accounts. Usage is, of course, available at no charge to ABA member Stores; call
totally voluntary.
800-637-0037 to request a copy.
SENOS
“Across the Fruited Plain,” The 1998 Midwest
Bisexual Lesbian Gay Transgender College Confer-
ence sponsored by The University of Illinois at
The package includes an overview, implementa- Chicago will take place February 20-22, 1998. Urvashi
tion guidelines, and a brief description of how to use Vaid, Leslie Feinberg, and Michelangelo Signorile are
the resulting data to calculate a number of perform- the keynote speakers and singer-songwriter Melissa
ance measures to evaluate a store’s financial condition Ferrick is one of the entertainers. Check their Web site
— including computing a Margin of Safety, debt for the most current information, (http://www
rations, inventory turnover, asset turnover, gross -uic.edu/depts/quic/ mblegtcc), call 312-413-8619, or
margin return on inventory, total return on assets, email (mblgcc98@uic.edu).
0
“[Teen Voices is] the magazine | was really waiting for.” *Gloria Steinem
The magaz ree
Professional © High sell-through © Published since 1990
Contact your distributor or call Teen Voices at 888-882-TEEN for more information.
September/October 1997 a Volume 20 Number3pS TesH EY WS ENT S THAT-A Fem:inisWt BoAokstoYre N N ee ww ss
|
ho”
By Jenn Tust with Carol Seajay Lodestar Saved!
Sally Engler and Beth Gundersen, having done
New Stores
everything they could think of to find someone to buy
Dorothy Logue and Cherie Monnell are sched-
Lodestar Books in Birmingham, had made the diffi-
uled to open Artistic Amazon Bookstore on Labor Day cult decision to close the store. August 10 was to have
in Portsmouth, NH. About an hour-and-a-half from been the last day.
Boston, this feminist, lesbian, spirituality book and But, just a few days before the closing sale was
gift store fills the front two rooms of an old ship scheduled to begin, local activist David White came
captain’s house. It is located in the historic downtown into the store to see if Lodestar needed more t-shirts.
area of Portsmouth along with a number of other gay “David,” they said, “We're closing!” Somehow he’d
and lesbian-owned businesses. Logue, a nurse, and missed it all.
Monnell, an electrician, hope to retire into book- “Tt can’t,” was his reply.... Birmingham without
selling. Artistic Amazon Bookstore, 28 Chapel Street, Lodestar? Unthinkable!
Porstmouth NH 03801; phone/ fax 603-422-9598. So David asked Beth and Sally to hold off on the
sale for a few days.... And within the week he came
back with a plan and co-investors, Beth and Sally did
an inventory instead of a sale, and they all worked out
an agreement. On Sunday, when the customers and
Robyn’s Bookmark, a Web-based bookstore, fea- friends turned up for the closing event ready to
tures women’s, feminist, lesbian and trans/ gender mourn the loss of their bookstore, they were greeted
resources.” Robyn Robbins emailed FBN, “after a short with a huge sign in the window reading “Miracles
p de er ci io dd e d wi tt oh sta am rta z oo ffn . oc no m m y bo oo wk ns . as I s bo uc ii la tt e ms y pr Wo eg br am s, it e,I h Loa dp ep se tn a! r !”D a av ni dd a W ch ei lt ee b ratis i onth e insp tr eo au dd of ne a w c loo siw nn ge ! r of
o thr ad te re dd e ala s se pl ee cc it fif ce aw l lyt itl we is thm os wt oly m enf ’r som as nma dl l fep mr ie ns is ses t DantzD lea rv .i d’ Bs e twp ea er nt ner ts he a tr he r ee Co on fn i te h emH ill t heya nd havJ eo hn a
issues. My goal is not to provide the biggest selection, tremendous amount of gay, lesbian, and feminist
b w b V E iu no i vo t eo e m wk n We s t ip tn u cr wo a hi o r lt iv et lh ti sh y ad a . e t L” R i wna oTr ia d b e h ta y e h s nn e o F l t is Ie hi r nc t oef e tt s p’oe ets ed ru o s nn n C ed ea t,g tf o r eio Pn o hu h p op .l F e o Da o nr k.r g uo e uf par ( m s A w ,b wb o o ao f mo ko e ek ek aa ns t n n u ’ dis r n si e gtf seo c sr b l M aoa io sona r n s k n v esd ec si t rn h ot aa e r)ib or e.ny n- c w bgi Der n oo e si i am tt n nm eai gl xu n lg pn i oo a fni f fg nt e Sdy x t tiB op u noe dc gor eo ok i nr lle tlg on he sa gc eg n r)e ei ,,, az t i man ha ac eg n d s to rd r s m e ap ae m la gbux lam eu !p t s s e e sir r afni po gee rrs en as s cc mk te i a i s, l w n c cl s hey o a i os ( lae n .n e dw o te wl n l s eia rns v c =o ilg a nur gd na tin snt g- - :
o
Intemet use and Web page design. Robyn’s Bookmark, Congratulations
PO Box 782142, Wichita KS 67278; phone/fax 316-776- Not So New, But... .
(0 th i1 t o5 t n3 :p, : (/e /m oa w oi w kl w . nr( for ob @o ryb ony bbn yo@ nor bko osb oy . kn c sb o .o m co ) ok . ms ). .c Fo orm ) moa rn ed it nhe f orW me ab - and tB he ry eeo nd ot heW ro r pd as r tnis e rB sl ’i z na ebe wt ih s h Sh gi ap yl e ey pa, tn ed mA bl eld reo /s b OiV ca ta n ol bm ea ra n n d
B i S 1 997
Wo 31
lume 29 Number 3i_nst Bookstore_ News
Feminist Bookstore News
rogressive bookstore and gift shop ;
KEeiboaiond of Bibokiyr. Open 4 ae at Slope
WRITING WANTED
Beyond Words is one of nine Specialty stores
area that is preparing for a Barnes and Nobis mt the
tL IES sion. Beyond Words, 186 Fifth Avenue Brooke inva-
fee a 11217; 718-857-0010. ames
bw oa un gd S ti s st ae y tr s hs e’ “s sa o tn od rf a r B ir s oo t Fh g ee o br os rd’ u” ryn ,ae bw hf ee) W bn ue sr esR so bi sn ceL ei n h-
By Jenn Tust h e n a o u Tt i ga n in s i e
bookstore will soon also be 2 coffecshep Rea
Black Lace is seeking erotic photography, short started A Quie; t Corner Bookstore i3 n CO with Pat Wisea -d
stories, fantasy letters to the editor, poetry, feature arti- berg. She left A Quiet Corner to run Sisters’ and
cles, artwork, and other items of interest to the African Brothers’. A Quiet Corner continues on. Sisters’ and
American lesbian community for issue 5. They are also Brothers’, 4011 Silver SE, Albuquerque NM 87108; 505-
seeking editors. Black Lace, BLK Publishing Company, 266-7317.
Box 83912, Los Angeles CA 90083; 310-410-0808, fax J. Fleenor and Ted Jensen (both men) opened
310-410-9250, email (newsroom@blk.com). Outloud Books & Gifts last November. Located
Radiance: The Magazine for Large Women is seeking between downtown and the Vanderbilt area of Nash-
contributions from young girls and boys about life — ville this g/1/bi/trans/feminist book and gift store
issues surrounding the body, size, friends, family, has been busy since they opened. The store is 850
school, good times, bad times, your wishes and goals, square feet, is the only such store in a 150-mile radius
struggles and successes, acceptance, self-esteem, self- and has other gay and lesbian businesses close by.
worth, body image.... Length: 300 to 1500+ words. Outloud Books & Gifts, 1805-C Church Street, Nash-
Guidelines: Alice Ansfield, Radiance, PO Box 30246, ville TN 37203; 615-340-0034.
Oakland CA 94604; 510-482-0680, email (Radmag2
@aol.com).
The 11th Berkshire Conference on the History of
Women, “Breaking Boundaries,” will be held on June
4-6, 1999 at the University of Rochester. The program Changing Names
committee seeks proposals for individual Papers,
Brava! A Place for Women has changed its name
workshops, panels, and roundtables. Send proposals to Bean’s on Broadway due to a challenge from
on U.S and Canadian topics to Nell Painter, Dept. of another organization. Gayle Rayfield and Jane
History, Princeton University, Princeton NJ 08544; on Douglas have left the business while Jean Narunsky
European topics to Sharon Strocchia, Dept. of remains as the sole proprieter for this book-
History, Emory University, Atlanta GA 30322; on store/coffeeshop in Redwood City, south of San
Africa, Latin America, Asia, the Pacific, and all com- Fransico. Bean’s on Broadway, 2209 Broadway,
Parative topics to Teresa Meade, Dept. of History, Redwood City CA 94063.
Union College, Schenectady NY 12308. See their Web
site (www-berks.aas.duke.edu)
for more information. Stores Move
aditol
Alyson Publications is seeking contributions for Rubyfruit Books (Tallahassee) has move!)
Ss te ov re ir ea sl (a nn ot wh )o ,l og ei roe ts i: t ni om ne fit cr ta ive ol ( bD are c se tm ob rie er b31 y), ag bh oo us tt vn ie sw bles pa —c e, ont wi ce ajas rl ar Ng oe ta hs /t Sh oei ur ho ld sts rp eea tc e an4 o Fn ee
c - n
s / i a m o r t
a ao ea a * L ia ctt ione n at bo ut 31) t he an hd o lig da ay y s me (n D ece(n mo bw e) r, mall. Rubyfruit plans to opena coffeebar as com-
pM ea ty ie tir to wld thF BN the ty ex Bp aa rn nd ee sd at nh de s Nt oor be et so $ "7f two
1 (noe wr )n .i ty Foa rn d gum ii dl ei lt ia nr ey s- :r el Aat ne td os le ox ys tor Gi ue is eb -y
Say men v e i t he w o l 3 9 ;
h g d
lines, Dept. NP Alyson Publications, 6922 Hollywood MB ooo nk rs o- eA -M Sti rl el eti ,o n T ali ln a ht ao sw sn e. e FR Lu b 3y 2f 3r 0u 3i ;t neB wo o ak re a codes:
Blvd. #1000, Los Angeles CA 90028; 213-871-1225.
oO 850-222-2627, fax 850-222-0411.
September/October 1997
=
Volume 20 Numvs 2ie,
new R sa ti orn eb ow ha’ ss mL ut cd’ hs bY ev tto en rn e VisB ibo iu id tyr ea —u is ta ’i d the thi r Feminist Bookstore News
l s in
afr no dn t peof pla es h co ap np in seg p tl ha za stoa rn ed fi rs omo n tt hh ee ma cai rn r To hx BACK TO
o e e PRESS
i r s. e
2st 0o 5r -e m 1-o 0v 9ne 3ed Hi un ntA su vg iu ls lt e. ALT he 3i 5r 05n ;e w 05a -d 5d 3r 6e -s 5s 00ie 5 f2 a2 AND OTHER GOOD
J o r d a 8n L a 2, NEWs
8 . 8 2 9 x
———
Stores Close
By Jenn Tust
On the Move — A Mobile Bookstore based in St.
Petersburg FL is no longer operating. Nancy Cybilla Rights
cnH t or oa e w mw m mk e l I y a w it a ti n yO n t n t e fr otet ro h se t mi ln o dM g vo e dv e a kn eod sn w r ”i c tt oh e Gas l oc l r oe eF dn aB tgN ii, lnn gg “ ,I at t’ n Nes d n nb ce by ye ue .n ia r ls d,a i n n gb e ux t- a RM oe be bt e rS ste o ’a l t Wh ieP nr ee N s es t t oh h e Ga r es l ra mns ao dl s nd y (r Vi (ag Fnh r t as G u ee nf no onr f e fp eW ) nh se ir a ve n e d ) .t h re i ghO tc se a fn os r
u n o y . u c k a
Awards
Books Move
Calyx Inc., celebrates its 21st anniversary this
GLAS: New Russian Writing titles are now avail- year! Their famous book, Into the Forest, was a finalist
able from Ivan Dee. The theme for GLAS 3: Women’s for the 1997 Small Press Book Awards and was selected
View was Russian women bloodied but unbowed; and by the New York Public Library Office of Young Adult
GLAS 13: A Will & A Way focuses on new women’s Services for a 1997 Books For The Teen Age.
writing. 20% short discount. Ivan R. Dee, Inc., 1332 New Moon: The Magazine for Girls and Their
North Halsted Street, Chicago IL 60622; 312-787-6262, Dreams‘ September 1996 issue on “Politics and Femi-
800-634-0226, fax 312-787-6269. nism” was named Best Single Issue in the
Educational Press Association of America’s Distin-
Publishers Move guished Achievement Awards.
Rising Tide Books is moving to Tucson AZ. Their Autumn Sea (Astarte Shell Press) won the 1997
800 number will continue to be in service: 800-648- Small Press Book Award, established by Small Press
5333. More details next issue. Magazine, in the Gay/Lesbian category.
Sharon Olds (Satan Says, The Dead and the Living)
Electronic News was awarded the Harriet Monroe Poetry Award for
1997. The award, with a $1,000 cash prize, is given “to
Cleis Press has a new email address for Frédérique
any American poet of distinction or of distinguished
Delacoste that we missed for last issue. It is
(fdcleis@aol.com). promise...and in making the awards the committee
shall give preference to poets of progressive rather
Radiance: The Magazine for Large Women celebrates
than academic tendencies.”
its 13th year this fall! Watch for the 13th anniversary
PEN America’s $5,000 Essay Award went to
issue, the Swimsuit issue and an upcoming feature on
Cynthia Ozick for Fame and Folly (Knopf); The
Delta Burke. They are also working ona kids project,
Poggioli Emerging Translator Award went to Ann
See Writing Wanted for more details. Radiance has an
Se im ta e il ( hta td pd :r /e s /s ww( wR .a rd am dia ag n2 c@ ea mo al g. ac zo im n) .ca on md a new Web KoM f ac tG I ea s ir sr ; e el t dl h ie’ ns P Etr N oa f/ n Ks Rll aa e nt ii dno n mB of o o HV k oi ut st E eo dr ;i i a t i an nR g do nc A Eh mwe eay rr’ gds ngwTh ee n Wt rF ia tc t -e o
e ) . M a o i
Can’t get enough of Publishers Weekly? Sign up for ers prizes of $3,0 00 and $4,000 went to children’s
the email edition delivered daily to your email i illiams-Garcia and nonfiction writer
address. To subscribe, fill out the form at aif Blan ae tively Oe $15,000 PEN/ Faulkner
(http:/ /www.bookwire.com/ pw/daily/). The Book- ae for fiction was awarded to Gina Berriault for
Wire site hosts a number of book industry sub-sites, her collecti on of short stories Women in Their ie
including PW’s site which includes a number of (Counterpoint).
articles from recent issues. 2
September /October 1997
Volume 20 Number 3 33Bookstore News
Feminist
f
Public Heroes, f
o
Private Felons
M
Athletes and Crimes Against Women
Jeff Benedict !
l
This hard-hitting look at the darker
l
side of sports exposes an escalating
o
problem: abuse of women by success-
S
ful athletes. Drawing on unprece-
dented interviews with players,
coaches, victims, and others, it offers
O
an in-depth examinatien of several
incidents of rape, gang rape, and as-
W
sault by prominent sports figures.
Controversially, the author does not
shy away from indicting the lucrative
sports industry for shielding abusive
N
athletes and allowing them to escape
O
accountability for their crimes.
J
$24.95 cloth
l
A
P
S
Loving Her J
a
Ann Allen Shockley
W
Groundbreaking when first published in 1974, Loving Her
isa powerful story of a young African American woman
who flees an abusive marriage for an interracial lesbian
love affair.
“In its exploration of a daring subject boldly shared I think |the novel]
has immense value. . . . It offers the reader an opportunity to develop a
new way of seeing and caring.” —Alice Walker, Ms.
$12.95 paper
NORTHEASTERN
University Press
360 Huntington Avenue, 416CP
Boston, Massachusetts 02115
September / October 1997SHORT
RAVES
Compiled by Jenn Tust
Hijole! If you haven’t checked out Locas by Yxta
Maya Murray, what have you been Waiting for?
Locas is an excellent rendering of life in Echo Park :
neighborhood in Los Angeles. Having moved to x
Francisco from this area, I was eager to read this
book. Much like the movie Mi Vida Loca in its por-
trayal of girl gangs, Locas tells the story of Lucia and
Cecilia, two women who are connected to Manny, the
leader of the Lobos. Written in alternating view-
points, Lucia, Manny’s girlfriend, becomes entranced
and inspired by Manny’s power and popularity
among his compadres, and decides to form her own Americans, Louisiana creoles, Jamericans and evena
gang, The Fire Girls. Cecilia, Manny’s younger sister, white woman. Includes Terri Jewell’s interview with
is perhaps the most intriguing character in the book. 90-year-old “Miss Ruth,” Makeda Silvera’s explora-
In a surprising twist, Cecilia falls fora woman ina | tion of Caribbean girlhood in “Man Royale and
neighboring gang. I don’t want to spoil it for you,so | Sodomites,” Jewelle Gomez’ “I Lost It at the Movies,”
I won't tell you what happens...but this is a wonder- and Mattie Richardson’s “Spice.” New voices macinde
ful book both for the women’s perspective of gang Tiffani Frazier’s poem about first lesbian experiences
life and the tangential lesbian content. 1 found myself | and unthinkable acts, Roxane Gay’s “Letter to
drawn into their intertwining stories and wondering | Mama” and Lena-Nsomeka Gomes’ vignettes of her
if this book was nonfiction — it was that believable! young lesbian experiences. This collection is a must
Murray’s writing cast a spell on me because she so read and a must carry! I had a hard time putting it
precisely captures the vernacular and mindset of her | down. RedBone is a new lesbian press. Their next
characters — I actually cared about what happened book, already in the works, will bea “PFLAG kind of
to them. And she left me dreading the end —I wanted book for Black parents of lesbians and gay men.”
more! When’s the sequel? $22 cl, 0-8021-1605-1, Advertised in the Feminist Bookstore Network Fall
Grove Press. —Danielle Bauter Catalog. $19.95 pb, 096566590-9. Redbone Press, PO
Box 861, Decatur GA 30031; 404-815-8391. —JT
Kudos and thank you to Lisa C. Moore, founder
of RedBone Press for publishing does your mama Killing the Black Body: Race, Reproduction,
know? An Anthology of Black Lesbian Coming Out and the Meaning of Liberty by Dorothy Roberts is a
Stories. This fabulous, diverse, inspiring, emotional devastating account and analysis of “America’s
collection of stories, poems, interviews and essays deeply rooted and ongoing assault — both figurative
8ives voice to the many facets of coming out for Black and literal — on the reproductive rights of Black
women. It is filled with both fiction and nonfiction by women.” From the time of slavery when Black
both established and new writers: African Ameri- women’s reproductive potential was a possession of
See Raves, page 83
cans, biracial women, Jamaican Canadians, Haitian
— 35 September /October 1997
Volume 20 Number 3FemiGnist EBooksNtore DNews E R AND JUSTIC;
FALL BOOKS FROM ILLINOIS —
THE CO WM OM MO AN HOG ORO DU ND OF ROMANCING
THE GODDESS
N
Three Middle English Ro,
Class, Gender, and Working Girls’ Clubs, ma
about Women
1884-1928 ge
MARIJANE
OsBorn
PRISCILLA MUROLO
The Medieval Savior Goddess Fig
Upper Class and Working Class Women— in Three New Translations
ag
Allied in Reform
eO vs ab or rn mi an nt cr eo sd ,u ces a dn ed lit nr gan sl wa it te s wt oh mre ee me cg as.
Working girls’ clubs, which lasted from the l o al l a h n t
1880s into the 1920s, were initially governed adrift upon the northern and Mediterranean
by upper-class women, and activities converged seas, then shows how the stories forge a hith-
around standards of respectability and charac- erto missing link with worship of a savior god-
ter of working women. Later, the workers them- dess in the distant past.
selves presided over the clubs, and the focus
WOMEN PRISONERS IN Illus. Cloth, $46.95; Paper, $19.95
shifted to issues of labor reform, women’s rights,
MEN'S PENTTENTIARIES
and sisterhood across class lines. PURIFYING AMERICA
Illus. Cloth, $29.95; Paper, $14.95 Women, Cultural Reform, and
MARCHING TOGETHER Pro-Censorship Activism, 1873-1933
GENDERED JUSTICE IN THE
ALISON M. PARKER
AMERICAN WEST Women of the Brotherhood of
Scrubbing the Filth from High and Low
Sleeping Car Porters
Women Prisoners in Men’s Penitentiaries
Culture
MELINDA CHATEAUVERT
ANNE M. BUTLER
WW ho am te n heP yr i Ws eo rn ee rs in Agt ahe nsW til d West—and BT lhe ckr ol Me ao nf oBl oa dc k Womanhood in Shaping mP iu dri df ly ei -n cg asA sm e ar di vc oa ace yx p ol fo r ce es sort she ipw i ad se s p pr oe pa ud
l c n h a -
t u p i a h
lar reform around the turn of the century and
“Beautifully written. . . . Butler has expanded Standard histories of the Brotherhood of Sleep- provides a historical perspective on contempo-
the understanding of western violence to en- ing Car Porters (the first national trade union rary debates that continue to divide women.
compass not only women but abusive family for African Americans) focus on the men who Illus. Cloth, $42.50; Paper, $16.95
aS ni dtu at si oo cn is e, t ala bo fm uri yn ab agl ae i nsb tru ta ol fi fty e ndw ei rth si n onpr ci es on rs e, - tb au nil tt rt oh le e u on f io tn h: e f Le aw d iea sc ’ kn Ao uw xl ile id ag re y it nh e shi am pp io nr g- WOMEN AND THE ANCESTORS
leased.” — Glenda Riley, author of A Place to public debates over black manhood, setting Black Carib Kinship and Ritual
Grow: Women in the American West black political agendas, and crafting effective Second edition
Illus. Cloth, $29.95 Strategies to win racial and economic justice. VIRGINIA KERNS
Illus. Cloth, $46.95; Paper, $17.95 “A richly detailed account of ee m-
e777
:
porary culture in which pte ing?
important, valued, and et era
— Anthropology and Humanism”
illus. Paper, $18-99
http://www.
press. uillinois.edu
UNIVERSITy
OF ILLINOIS
PRESS
e 13 25 South Oak Street © Champaign, IL 61820 * 800
September/October 1997
mber 3
36 Volume 20 NBL
S
TLSiL
e Rs
Pandora Book Peddlers
Madison, NJ 2. Songs in Ordinary Time, Mary McGarry Morris,
$13.95 pb, 0-14-024482-4, Penguin
NONFICTION eae 3. 0A -n 3n 7i 4e - 52J 5o 1h 0n -, 2 ,J a Nma oi oc na d aK yi ncaid, $10 ; b,
1. AR de ov li ev si cn eg Op Gh ie rl lsi ,a : MaS ra yv in Pg pht eh re S $e 1l 2v .e 9s o pf 4. 0S -h 3i 9p -F 3e 1v 6e 0r 0, 9,A nd Wr .e Wa B Na or rr tet ot n, $12 pb,
n t i , 5 b , 3 - .
0-345-39282-5, Ballantine
5. Wild Meat and the Bully Burgers, Lois-Ann
2. Raising a Daughter: Parents and the Yamanaka, $12 pb, 0-15-600483-6,
Awakening of a Healthy Woman, Don and Harcourt Brace
Jeanne Elium, $12.95 pb, 0-89087-7084,
6. “Wide Sargasso Sea, Jean Rhys, $11 pb,
Celestial Arts
0-393-30880-4, W.W. Norton
3. SW ah ne dn I HA m MarA tn Ol ed itoW ro m $a 1n pI b,S h 0a -l 9l 8W 9e 49a -r 6-Pu 5r ,p le, 7. $In 2.t 9h 5e T pbi ,m e -4of 2-th 2e 44B 2u -tt 7e ,r fl Pi le us m, Julia Alvarez,
r a . z , d , 1 1 1 1 0 5 7 e
Papier Mache
8. *The Education of Harriet Hatfield,
4. Chicken Soup for the Woman’s Soul, J. Canfield, May Sarton, $10 pb, 0-393-31029-9,
M.V. Hansen, J.R. Hawthorne and M. Shimoff, W.W. Norton
$12.95 pb, 1-55874-415-0, Health 9. The Deep End of the Ocean, Jacquelyn
Communications
Mitchard, $7.50 pb, 0-451-18692-3, Signet
5. In Celebration of Women: A Selection of 10. *To the Lighthouse, Virginia Woolf, $7.95 pb,
Words and Paintings, Helen Exley, $12.95 hc, 0-15-690739-9, Harcourt Brace
1-85015-801-0, Exley Publications
6. What Women Want: A Journey to Personal and * The women of Pandora write: “We are true believers in
Political Power, Patricia Ireland, $12.95 pb, the art of hand-selling. Our list of fiction bestsellers always
0-452-27249-1, Plume includes older works that are our personal favorites and
7. The Cloister Walk, Kathleen Norris, $12.50 pb, which we enjoy introducing to our customers.”
1-57322-584-3, Riverhead
8. The Heart of a Woman, Maya Angelou, $12 pb,
0-553-38009-5, Bantam Women in Print
9. Beyond Dolls and Guns: 101 Ways to Help Vancouver, Canada
Children Avoid Gender Bias, Susan Hoy
Crawford, $10.95 pb, 0-435-08129-2, 1. Red China Blues, Jan Wong, C$18.95,
Heinemann 0385256396, Doubleday Canada
10. The Mother-Daughter Book Club, Shireen 2. Cure for Death by Lightning, Gail
Dodson, $12.95 pb, 0-06-095242-3, Anderson-Dargatz, C$16.95, 0394281802,
Ha erCollins Vintage Canada
c 3. Fugitive Pieces, Anne Michaels, C$19.99,
FICTION 0771058837, McClelland & Stewart
1. Stones from the River, Ursula Hegi, $12 pb, 4. The Two Ends of Sleep, Lizard Jones, C$15.95,
0-684-48680-4, Scribner 0889740720, Press Gang
Volume 20 Number 3 37 September/October 1997E ee B 1 { News Crazy Ladies Bookstore
-——
7
Cincinnati
tam C$19.95,
6. Pall the Pale, Elana Dykewoman, ie Class Reunion, Linda Hill, $14
If tod 407 S4 q7, u arP er ,e ss K aG ta hn erg i ne V. Forrest, C$7.99, 2. WNa oi ma ed n ’s Traveller, Damron, $11.95, 092943599
do5 m8 9 a9 H3 l, sB eer Nkl ae oy 0679308539, 0D 3ra 4em 5ar 3ko 8n
8 RBe ae s c oe us m i Wolf, C$29.95, . B 8i n g 2,P oi Bn at, laM na tr it ni na Navra
6 8 l e tilo va, $5.99,
n
9. SLe ct o’ ps peF ta tc oe net ,h e CM $6u .s 9i 9c , 0an 3d 4 54D 1i 2e 2, 57S ,a ndra . Let’s Face the Music and Die, Sandra
Scoppettone, $5.99, 0345412257 Ballantine
Ballantine
10. When Fox Is a Thousand, Larissa Lai, C$16.95, H Bo et c, h deT lh ,r o $b 1b 0.i 9n 5g , 1D 5y 6k 3e 4s 10 8t 6o 9 ,W at Fc ih rO eut b rFo ar, nA dli "so
0889740410, Press Gang
. Succulent Wild Woman, Sark, $15, 068483376x
Simon & Schuster
Dream Lover, Jane Futcher, $9.95, 1555833756,
An Intricate Weave Alyson
. When Things Fall Apart, Pema Chédrén, $18,
Women Write About Girls and Girlhood 1570621608, Shambhala
Liberty Square, Katherine V. Forrest, $5.99,
EDITED BY MARLENE MILLER. INTRO BY KRISTEN GOLDEN.
0425158993, Berkley
Some early praise for our new anthology... 10. Best Lesbian Erotica, Jewelle Gomez, editor,
$14.95, 1573440655, Cleis
“A thoroughly satisfying, completely
uplifting read.” So To Speak
Sisterhood Bookstore
“All the pieces celebrate the importance Los Angeles
of girlhood...” Publishers Weekly
1: Class Reunion, Linda Hill, $11.95 pb, 1562801783,
“Their truth is in their particulars, Naiad
whether they are about mothers, daughters, 23 Mazel, Rebecca Goldstein, $11.95 pb, 0140239057,
sisters, mentors, friends, or the Penguin
stranger who sets you free.” Booklist 3: Dream Lover, Lyn Denison, $11.95 pb,
1562801732, Naiad a
“A phenomenal collection,” 4, Hot Throbbing Dykes to Watch Out For, Aliso
Lilith
Bechdel, $10.95 pb, 1563410869, Firebrand
“ This. book deserves an audience.” 5: Succulent Wild Woman, Sark, $15 pb,
The San Francisco 0684833767, Simon & Schuster ‘
Review
6. Early Embraces, Lindsey Elder, $11.95 pd,
1555833543, Alyson
$11.95 pb,
7. Women’s Traveller 97, Damron,
0929435222, Damron
Jena Maria
. The Moths and Other Stories,
$15.95, Ava4 i S0 l oa% fb tl ced i vs edc i ro r ,eu cn tt 3o 9O f n fr1 omor Bm ao kr ee r b &o o Tk as. y lor . V NOi u er t a mm o ao fn nt ,te h es , C 1l 0$ .o9 9s. 5e9 t5 pbp a ,b n , d 51 N 55 o 55 8t8 38 h 45 i 11 n 53 g 98 ,0 , t© AA lWr ye sar o, n etL eslea
o
4 w $ 1 p
Pages, 0-945372-15-9
10. Witches Almanac 97-98, Elizabeth Pep
ey $6.95 pb, 0884964159, Capra Press :
38 Volume 20Dear sisters,
Is it uI sw eo fuu ll ?d Hlo ov we ? to Dh oa ve y ous om oe r df ere ed ab na dc k haa vb eo ut s uct ch eis s s co sl eu llm in n: g mW oo rm ee n’ prs o -acH ti is vt eo ry a ppM ro on at ch h tv ha ir si e ys e arw id (e sl uy g. g esW te i ont so ok i naa
future column).
books you might not otherwise? I’m sure the folks at FBN Fortunately, parents (and grandparents, aunties,
could use positive feedback in their uphill battle to get the etc.) are buying what we call “great girl stories” and
big guys to spend a few of their advertising dollars with us. middle-school biographies and diaries. Those main-
So call, write, fax, or email your responses to Women & stream publishers who are making a point of doing
Children First, Attention: Linda, 5233 N. Clark St., quality books of fiction and history for girls and con-
Chicago IL 60640; 773- 769-9299, fax 773-769-6729, temporary “growing up guides” are doing very well
email (wcfbooks@aol.com). —Linda Bubon in our store. It’s hard to understand why they
wouldn’t be thrilled to advertise in the Feminist Book-
I have been going through piles of children’s store Network Catalog, unless, as I suspect, all of their
books, from presses large and small, trying to find the advertising dollars are tied up in Ingram’s, Borders’
best books for our store this season. Although many and B&N’s catalogs and promo pieces. (Then, I sup-
publishers have smaller adult lists, they still seem to pose, if those girls’ books don’t find their market and
be investing heavily in children’s books. I hear that the
sell their print runs, the publishers will have an excuse
educational market is strong, and although many not to publish more of them.)
publishers sell directly to schools and libraries, I
strongly advise stores that carry good multicultural
and special-issue kids’ books to develop relationships
with nearby teachers and schools.
Let me start with a few small press books written
with love and good intentions. Though they won’t be
nominated for Caldecott’s, all three of them belong in
feminist bookstores (and libraries and classrooms!)
In Chicago our schoolteachers are always looking Something to Remember Me By by Susan V. Bosak
for quality books to inspire their African American, is a lovely, longer picture book suitable for ages 6and
Asian and Latino students. Picture-book biographies up, written from her memories and thanking her
(other than of sports figures, of which there are more grandmother for their special relationship ($15.95 hb,
than enough!) seem to do well, but I wish there was 1-896232-01-9), published by The Communication
the same interest in women’s biographies. Teachers Project (800-772-7765 or through B&T, Ingra m). Illus-
are perfectly comfortable planning special projects for trated by Laurie McGraw in warm tones, it shows
African American History Month, but support for traditional images of grandmother and daughter
over the years, sharing ordinary moments cS
Graphic by Laura Irene Wayne, in Journey to Feel (Jora). special by love and attention. Impossible to rea
Von September/October 1997
Olume 20 Number 3 39Fe Smi ei ni e As nt o t t <B h o eg wo e retk t lis ln g t rgo a ar s nt e ea f r oy rN , e chtw h is i ls d ri es n . a book e ds ’s sf or t Art a mh de yi t ia od n Au al slt k s bgi uf tt a bb Rt yye l dl gSi M etn oT feg th iva i eet t v lh ’ a dSa s, t n u i l Ca ol Tls nis h avoo 0a lw 6n t 8i r 7n u R 7(g e e )$ , s .1 o 5 of; . u I9a r nC 5n c o te hu h sn ibn s,f d fe (e 0 u5e 9 lsr 4r s 6s -st 4 ct Da o1i a la 0 gro 5n nd 3 s -4 8 1- 1)DW ie v Pa Ro ork aa cn u de e ds #b l 0s .
i l y 8 9
equally stirring, 1S bian?, illustrated
Question: G dr p aa rn Mtd onm tera h , e rB ar Cb C oa o ur u ra r aa gL g ei n ed Pq ru P ei r ss se ,t s , s r6t ( 6h $ 7e 1 g0 et D. sw 9 o 5 lg ah aa nbl d,s gta a ihg n rie d lss ’l bi4 ofe- co 1 okb0 e, vf bo er e rt e cw ao au a tsn is ed oi nst a ie f tr tes ewr x. a sd lMi s rc Z us S SOs ot hei a T e* PaP r ai ec nt Su t ar s ie ’ sd ob h ro e yo }qk ; i¢ :
o1 o u g s
t
F a 8 s n s p o
Ave., Racine WI5 many children have hen theis ee the feeling
up, this book answers a of their parents’ decisions. And I es change ecause
ctcpa h er ob i lo so m u b i bt ba n ob g aol l ky ie o os u nb gt ti . oh a e oen sWs , ao bn r eel smh y by,o io am nb no i d op n o cfh k uaoo lcr tb cm uii en raa ept, :tip avri ne Gn c rt e aa n no d t dn o mas aa n t rg ha Jr ooi a g nn ph od ot rp f uia o nnrr g dwe san r at d n o, d s b gwo rn e o ae r d pe y isi t cs mo t ige e sr dt e eh r se ar ir be , glm nei .tn hd ie ss y T h bef ot o lh u de g ph ico t att nh u dle r ir ek se ot c rh ara erat e z y e ec yha ei n -li ct d ln At he p a tren tt hs
n h m e e
e r t f l
tt oh e ana rm o uto sf th ae nr d ic nh ga ir c ua ltn ud r es ay os f , w“ oT ma em n pr wo hu od s e to grb ee al to en sg t tm ro ys it n g s te o lf g- etp ub a l ki is dh ed to rb eo ao dk s a, boi om kp or ot na an t t oua ct hc eh ing at eha n
ject.
goals are to love and to care for other women; to fight
for whatis right and fair for women and children, and
most men, too; to work to stop violence, war and
pollution; to create grand music and art and literature;
to honor the value of Mother Earth and the Goddess A few small press books from last season are
inus all.” Whew! [hope kids will read it. Because there worth mentioning here. From Free Spirit Publishin
is still such a need for basic information about non- is We Can Get Along: A Child’s Book of Choices
traditional families, motivated authors do more ($9.95 pb, 1-57542-013-9) by Lauren Murphy Payne
and Claudia Rohling who also wrote the great kids’
affirmation book, Just Because I Am ($6.95, 0-915-
793-601). The new book emphasizes kindness,
tolerance, and peaceful conflict resolution, a great
book for K-3 classrooms. There is also a Leader's
Guide ($14.95 pb, 1-57542-014-7) with reproducible
hand-out masters. Another sequel from Free Spiriti s
Stories from My Life: Cassandra Walker Talks to
Teens About Growing Up ($6.95 pb, 1-57542-016-3).
Walker, a popular TV and radio personality, tells
stories from her own life and includes heartfelt letters
toand from teens. Her first book was Becoming Myself
Children’s Book Press has some of the most
attractive multicultural folktales, many of them oe
gual. Just out in paperback is one of our spe
China’s Bravest Girl ($6.95, 089239-148-0) Bet
Chin, illustrated by Tomie Arai. For ages 6and up, e
is a classic retelling of the legend of Hua Mu vhs
Chinese Warrior Maiden. Like all Children's
Books: ‘this soul: ‘kingly illustrate
s, this is full-color and strikingly ted boo f
Illustratio Qn eb ty iB oa nr b (a Mr oa heLi rn d Ba oyj uu i rst
u s t a ge eran’ Geely
September /October 1997 ie
40SS
Australian children’s writer whose wonderful book n Feminist Bookstore News
ba lr ee pto oo mn ,u m We hr oo eu vs rt o Ym oe un t Ai ro en ,, toh as elwr ci ot mt een a nS ewi ba companion to the Bessie book is another Paper-
e e w a ab
or celebrate any young child’s birthday. The her
features a globe peopled with tiny, waving bodies;
across it flies a brown-skinned man dressed ina sky
blue suit and a matching Stetson. In his arms he holds
four children from the four corners of the earth. “Who-
ever youare, / wherever you are, / there are littleones
/ just like you / all over the world,” begins the sooth-
ing, repetitive text that, coupled with the richly-hued
paintings, communicate a diverse, loving world:
Joys are the same,
and love is the same.
Pain is the same,
and blood is the same.
Smiles are the same,
and hearts are just the same —
wherever they are,
and illustrated Allison ($17 hb, 0395-85895-X), a
wherever you are, realistic and moving story about an Asian girl who’s
wherever we are, been adopted by American parents. Her doll, who
all over the world. looks more like her than her parents, becomes her
only solace until she finds a stray cat in the garden
We love this book from Harcourt Brace. ($16 hb, and learns the true meaning of parental love. On a
015-200787-3.) less serious note, the ever-delightful Susan
Another good story made better with breathtaking Meddaugh (you owe it to your inner child to read
paintings by PJ. Lynch is Amy Hest’s When Jessie Martha Speaks, Martha Calling, and Martha Blah Blah,
Came Across the Sea ($16.99, 07636-0094-6), due in all staff faves at our store) brings us an original
November. I’ma sucker for European immigrantstories spin-off, Cinderella’s Rat ($15 hb, 0395-86833-5).
since all four of my grandparents came across the water When Cinderella’s fairy godmother turns an ordi-
nearly a hundred years ago, leaving loved ones behind. nary rat into a coachboy, the fun begins. He must use
Jessie is chosen by the village rabbi to travel to America, his wits to save himself and his sister (still a rat) from
leaving her beloved grandmother behind. Both author his newfound human friend. Witty and animated,
and illustrator capture Jessie’s fear, apprehension, brayv- Susan Meddaugh’s books are equally entertaining
ery, and finally, pride, as she makes her way in America, for both children and the adults who read to them.
using the skills her grandmother taught her. This is from
Candlewick, which is also bringing out Amy Hest’s
Jamaica Louise James, illustrated by Sheila White
Samton, in paperback ($5.99, 07636-0284-1). This story
Speaking of silly, my favorite Christmas story this
ltPNs d ihi ah o vfo elbf lw feoe yis r rmd soe ty pn h nc olo e w O w e(i nn no sn .s s9he h9e or c t wvhr se 0ee n a e it ci Si ag kv ne yh , :b Ao gs m3r T p eh h 1u ro e r-n o e9k d a)Sy . .t no re slA Byi ll g ssh to ot hf oy o “ re u B ;a Ct dr mr a pLlv oio en el md ap abBa nm neep cra se ed sr ie ’aea o”i s rf f tsa r ul sl o m -ci nds C hO dh el orri ov .ne ri i, eoec l nt ie h dno, e reO b m?ryt h soe t r h e bR na eee u i st n h sld ho rOer le s ie vr eo .af ( r$ !st V1 h ‘i1 ue. 9 e5 e a, q ou 0 a ba8 al O1 l y1 8 - a t1 8 ua0 ti 7 e- u1 ie)
C o p a r a n e mb y $ 5 R e , e - 7 y6L 3 oi 6 un - d 0b e 6 r g ih c, ri e vu is s at i r ee a t ie o ib rny P a m e hw l a ss wiL ae dn a h too sg e s t d o w r h r Bs ie u, edJ v . ee Ie O r t h t e a w r th hsS e ii n ab o h od i ia d h dn a ee d y r t v n h i e a r Sn a yn ao u lm tt ie oh h; o a e e
e i c e d A f r a A t d g h e o ’ k el I y
e n d e t f a g t u t a n e ” v e a
holding onto your dreams.
September /October 1997
V Oo lumn e 20 Number 3 41Feminist Bookstore News
u i sp tl ol ru ysto t r fat oth rie o 4n N s o tor a n t h d ya eP c ao rhl e a or lmt do si .n h ge Al np t ,exS ta n ofmt a a ck oeo u rt s. t h ,is B o Oal ld is va etg ir sa sfp ayh vii enc sg gke is rd n ei s o at e w ti n o lsn ei. kb d il g dyT seh ’a i os br blg oeb a o n ko .ik a )z n e ddc an b c y oo vnb ee fa g ie dr tee hng ia strd o u fi p a in , b r‘ soa tun a -t n d i sa w i a, ]N i ln § maor eet syw o o y,
d u e
8
o I l p er t k
bi os ok. S ba yv in Pag t t Mh oe rad ay i s i a n lia brb ae ra iu at ni fu wl h, o me da en vi eln og pf su l a p si pc et cu ir ae l baa r eb t go i iu s ntt s s ah wne ir d t h mf ie psm lsa ail coe in na gr a in tec hse es t wao n or ds m as nw toh ro y d t ue rlw ile ner ge s 4 a m acS hN a r hr ia st tai on rv d ye
relationship with a yo ung migrant worker in Tomas
and the Library Lady, illustrated by Raul Colon. This and adding, “but she didn’t fight in it an si of War
book touched and inspired me, as I know it will chil- reader is touched by each individual , ae the
larger picture emerges: hard-working. dete the
dren. Based on the true story of the Mexican American
author and educator Tomés Rivera, this story shows talented women who created family, society i)
what libraries and education can make possible. ture while the patriarchy raged and destrayail cul-
Colon’s expressive paintings interweave the harsh reali- One other picture book from the Morrow
bti oe os k so .f To Thm ea s’ r elli af te iw oi nt sh h ipt sh e wj io ty hfu l hii s ma sg ti on ryi tn eg ls l inh ge f Gi rn ad ns d-in w Mo er lt mh e d me an nt d io Jn ii m ng L a i Ms arL cit ht el e ($O 1h 6 hb by , 0L 6a 8u 8r -a 1 420B8e-e7,
af da ut lh te sr ’ an ed n ct oh ue rc aa gr ei mng e nl ti br oa fr i ea mn erc go in nv ge y rt eh ae d ei rsm .p or Ct hea en rc se to of Rth ae i ns ba am be i est eam ( $16th at h b,c re 0a 6t 8e 8d - 1t 0h 7e 5 5e 9n )c .h an Wt hi in lg e st to hr iy s, T mh ae y
Pat Mora for creating wonderful books for adults and remind you of Thumbelina, it is an Original fairy tale
children that celebrate her Latina heritage. Wisely pub- set in Japan about an origami girl who comes to life in
lished simultaneously in a Knopf English-language a tender and exciting tale whose details, exquisitely
hardcover ($15, 0679-80401-3), and a Spanish-language represented in La Marche’s paintings, will capture
paperback edition ($7.99, 0679-84173-3). children’s imaginations and touch their hearts.
And finally, I want to recommend three Fall titles
for pre-teens. From the daring, committed, and beau-
tiful lesbian writer Jacqueline Woodson, comes The
House You Pass on the Way ($14.95, 0385-32189-9,
Celebrating family love is at the heart of all of
Delacorte). In this novel, 13-year-old Staggerlee (née
feminist author Vera B. Williams’ picture books, and
Evangeline) comes to terms with her longing for her
her new one is no exception. Lucky Song ($15 hb, friend Hazel when her cousin Trout comes to visit.
0688-14459-4, Greenwillow). In characteristic bright
Woodson’s novels, and this is true of this one, always
warm tones, a little girl sings her lucky song about a also deal with race and class issues. Red Scarf Girl:
wonderful, blue-sky, kite-flying day made possible A Memoir of the Cultural Revolution ($14.95 hb,
with the loving, attentive touches of sister, mom, dad, 006-027585-5, HarperCollins) is by Ji-li Jiang, who
g Wir laa lnn iadd mme sas a bn acd lig s5r t,a nd ap la w. ysF or oa ng de es fu2- l4. y; Do clc uh se ic vk ou at w tua rs tw re el vv oe uty ie oa nr .s o Hl ed in a1 m9 i6 l6 at asth e hs ut ma irt iaof et dh e acu nl d-
’ k a w r l in e l a l l r f y w l t
reviled by neighbors and former colleagues, and Ji-l
was forced at one point to denounce her et
sacrifice her future in her beloved Party. Told wit
simplicity and grace, this is an unforgettable ie
And from Walker & Co., Judith Harlan’s ae thet
Staying Strong, Feeling Good, Sticking ne
($8.95 pb, 08027-7524-1), illustrated by Debbie ae
The tone is very positive and upbeat with advic wie
Suggestions about famous women, thet Seat ;
feats and inspiring stories. Next issue I'll wae as
children’s books that will be in our neW
Bookstore Catalog and mention my vO aa
for the winter holidays.
esN umber 3
42 Volume 20ss
Feminist Bookstore News
e2|2-IINEW
ME
eae
Li AOoSr DeNVa eAn
AUDIO ® VIDEO e CD-ROM
2 <
ELECTRONIC
BOOKS
by ae Holland
series. A gentle, easy listen, well read by Seldes. I
enjoyed remembering what a broad range of ideas
Cather can present in such a narrow geography.
First, a computer-type book of interest: ($11.95, 1 cassette, 1% hours, 1-57270-012-2, Audio
Get on With It: The Gay and Lesbian Guide to Partners.)
Getting Online by Richard Laermer. ($18 tp, M Is For Malice by Sue Grafton, read by Judy
0553069349, Bantam.) From an overview of how the Kaye. ($24, 4 cassettes, 4 hours, abridged, 0-679-44064-X,
Internet works to a savvy insider’s evaluation of the Random House.) Another good read from Grafton.
services available to gay men and lesbians online, this Strongly feminist Kinsey Milhone strikes again!
isa definitive survey of what's happening (and what's Beardstown Ladies’ Stitch-in-Time Guide to
not) in queer cyberspace today. A comprehensive jour- Growing Your Nest Egg: Step-by-Step Planning for
ney through the gay and lesbian online community. a Comfortable Financial Future by Beardstown
\.
Ladies, read by the authors. ($16, 2 cassettes, 2 hours,
abridged, 0-671-54776-3, S&S Audio.) I keep thinking
if I listen to enough of these ladies, I’ll find financial
acumen — or just money!
Now, the ear candy, AUDIO: (all available at Ingram, When Work Doesn’t Work Anymore: Women,
most at BP.) Work, and Identity by Elizabeth Perle McKenna, read
The Woman Who Fell from the Sky by Joy Harjo, by author. ($23.95, 4 cassettes, 6 hours, abridged,
read by the author. ($11.95 one tape, 90 minutes, 0-553-47794-3, Bantam Audio.) Really interesting
unabridged selections, 1-57453-149-2, Audio Litera- ideas about balancing work and real life for women.
ture.) Harjo combines storytelling, prayer and song in If self-help audios do well for you, here you go.
this new collection of poetry influenced by her interest Speaking Truth to Power by Anita Hill, read by
injazz and by her North American tribal background. the author. ($24.95, 4 cassettes, 6 hours, abridged,
Bird by Bird: Some Instructions on Writing and 0-553-47894-X, Bantam Audio, October.) Hill tells the
Life by Anne Lamott, read by the author. ($17.95, 2 story of her life, and how she became the touchstone
c Pa as rs te nt et re ss ., 2% M4 orh eou rs o, a Lb ar mi od tg te ’d s, v1 a- l5 u7 a27 b0 l- e0 16 a- d5 v, ceA ud ai no for se Ix nu ta ol th ha er as Fs orm ee sn tt bi ys sue Js e anin A Hm ee gr li ac na d. . ($21.95, 4
) f i d
wanderings — especially wonderful because she’s cassettes, 6 hours, abridged, 0-553-47878-8, Bantam,
the reader. October.) Set in the near future, this mesmerizing
IsI as ka k iD nei sn ae ns ,e n eaF de as bt y: WiA llP ie ar mf or Lum ca en ce An Jut lh ieo l Ho ag ry c too mi sn ug rv- io vf e- ag ie n n to hv ee irl d re ut ra ai ll s ht ow mo e you whn ig l eg irl cs i vis lt ir zu ag tg il oe n
by D r an d -
:
tis. ($29.95, 6 cassettes, 7+ hours, 1-57270-029-7, Audio round ot nh em F. l ame Lake by Lorna Landvik.
Partners.) Adelight to listen to — having two perform- e ($16a .95v , e 2 cs ass ettes, 3 hours, abridged, eect ee
€ Vr is tom rWa iik al e ls Ma git C a zq tu ii h nt e ee r d Pr ry e en a sa d em ni tc b sy. WM ea lr li -a Sn okS ee nl de Cs, mpf aro nm ont she oH fi g Cuh rb lr id ag ne hA eu rd io p. o) erB fy ulth e ana du th bo rr i llo if a nP ta t bty o okJ .i e eeu?
c a a p o i , ot w
September / October 1997
— Volu me 20 Number 3 43Bookstore News
Feminist
wakes up and decides that this is the day shay
Thus begins the film portraying a rural] Ee die,
that covers four generations of women. Do narchy
this one. Dutch with English subtitles, 19) an
Bound, $79.95. Bound is a thriller that kee Utes,
on the edge of your seat. It has the ending | a you
for Thelma & Louis.e . The vi. olence i‘ s not on the Schaynyt ed
zenegger level — but if you have squeane
sensibilities, just close your eyes when von Le
something ominous is about to happen. It's well
worth the effort. 108 minutes.
When Night Is Falling, $89.95. “Finally!
favorite lesbian video. It is beautifully done, has a
happy ending, and never resorts to dumping on
males. It simply allows you to compare relationships
and (surprise!) women are better!” says Helene in
from Full Circle’s newsletter. 95 minutes.
(These four are available from both Naiad and
-STORIES-—
Wolfe.)
Ellen Special, $39.95. 3-video special: Women of
3+ hrs/2 cass. $22.95
ISBN #1-883332-22-2 the Night — Classic standup with Ellen DeGeneres,
Available from Paula Poundstone, Judy Tenuta and Rita Rudner, 56
Penton Overseas,
minutes. Wild Side — One of the best kept secrets of
Ingram, B&T BOOKSHELF
1996, starring Ellen’s girlfriend Anne Heche and the
delicious Joan Chen featuring a great love scene and
Bound Feet and Western Dress by Pang-Mei even a happy lesbian ending! 96 minutes. Wise Cracks
Natasha Chang. ($17.95, 2 cassettes, 3 hours, abridged, — A fun documentary about women comics includ-
1-57453-093-3, Audio Literature.) The sa ga ofa remark- ing standup routines by Ellen and a host of your
able woman born in Shanghai at the turn of thecentury. favorites. 93 minutes. Ellen Special availabe from
Succulent Wild Woman: Dancing with Your Wolfe, Wild Side is also available from Naiad.
Wonder-Full Self by SARK, an audio experience cre-
ated and narrated by the author. ($17.95, 2 cassettes, 3 Dorothy Holland runs BookGrrls, devoted to ae
hours, abridged, 1-57453-155-7, Audio Literature.) small independent bookstores in business. She also ee
Based on her new trade paperback book, this tape lishes The Co-Op Report, an annual nt
V“e Ixu Dl Ets in the pleasure of living life to its fullest.” fq iu na dr it ne gr ,l y usiu np gd at ae ns ct lo imas is ni gs t coi -n od pe ep re atn id ve en t kb eoo eks ae
O d a Bo x
Cy ho iu ,aoL lfi f fv ae — taN arC su iyd en ne st h aiG nai r l ns S o, t e hav e$ ne1 rd9 n . s t9 o o5 n u. u, hD yDo n a c’ n set ua jl ebe D crt e sl tt .a ih e on Ay t i tot a efl e n rd it ih cK er nio amw p 88o 3 6r 0 7t , - 1f 4Pr 5lo 5am c , i tap esu m b al iNi ls Mhe (r ds 8 o. 7 r o0 t4B ho 3 yo - @k 0 bG 8 or 3r o0l k;s g , r r5 i b0 sD 5o .-r c8o o6t m7h )-y . e9 07H 7o , f fa e t 55 O
sa t pt sr l s t i a f r a k f n n y l e a n f r fi d l-
n d t c b t r ]
Xena Merch!
Xena Fanclub Kit: Includes a video
too. 9 A2 n tm oi nn iu at ’e ss . Line, $19.95 (wh t : : Gb al bo ro ip ee lr s, anda n te hw es le gt at ne gr ,, a ph lo at ro gg er -Sé ! Z© ane
This brilliant film with a is an amazing price).
received an Academy Award fori gh Bt ef su l femi : nist slant poster, a membership card and certificate,
: t Foreign Film of exclusiiv e color photo of f XeXen a and G
es oO z bright, : ¥ morning an elderly woman tub. $29.98. Created by Wolfe ae per 3
September/October 1997
Volume 20 ND
USIC
NEWS
OC ro im gp ii nal le d reb vy i eB wa sr b wrS im ta tl el ne y b y/ L La ad uy rs il ei pp Fue cr h s,M us Bi ec t h Ann oa fn d es oo plm ee on ce mew si th a al na dr ger aya sn d vem ryo re wer ea tu lc yo us dog ro yu op
p o u p S s “ u
Koelsch, and Joanne Andrews mind if I use this chair?” Then they wisk it away to
their own table, as if their’s was the original party and
This summer, a tour called the Lilith Fair went | I’dsomehow been saving that chair for their use. How
from town to town putting ona big multi-stage show could I begrudge them their fun and comraderie —
featuring Sarah McLaughlan, Tracy Chapman, the | what was I saving that chair for anyway? And so go
Indigo Girls, Mary Chapin Carpenter, and others. my ruminations.
Now, that sure seemed like something to get What I also hear “out there” are some encourag-
women’s music lovers all excited. So, lsought to get | ing words from retailers who are dedicated to looking
information about the tour into feminist bookstores | for eclectic and independently produced music by
thinking surely people would be turning to you to | women. With these sorts of titles they plan to shore up
know more about this event. After tracking downthe | their niche, open new possibilities, and please their
booking agent for the tour, a company called Little | customers.
Big Man, I quickly learned that this event wanted
nothing to do with the independent world of
women’s music we’ve supported for two ast
Perhaps by now you have read articles in places like
The New ee — and Ms. magazine in which some My Secret Joy/Mary Sw Eh eo es
of the Lilith Fair performers explicitly distance them- Some of the sweetest, ee ae 7 . a = a
selves from “women’s music.” Though, as they also melodic, oes a We oe een
say, the major record companies are liking their sales with ae Se Hee eae Sc CE ey
of women’s music lately. Yes, that is confusing dou- as melli sel 4 eae ope ae es
b fle-speak e. And whaal ta s, Bop e rr eh ra sp s hey do u boe uv ge hn we un pt alef m he E Gi Tn ot ee a(all o f w uhic sh iso nund like ev ne a fl
t l e | r n W g om
a e eae j m
This co-optation of BOnmEAS music concernsme. | 4 eal laid rene dic qualities, expressing
I want to rejoice over the success these women artists around the yt ae nana heartbreak, hon-
are having. I want to think we helped them and pro- | tony s Reevetits which is accessible to all
vided important support for them. But what is the esty an pees ike “I Wish I Had a Monro
Price of their gaining success in the mainstream? aed Wants Me,” “I’m Your Debotantss os
“ R( oCW cyo knm it neh ’in a’ s th L e oMnu Bts o i ac th ::a s N Mao a sg sLo oond Mg ue sar ir t cia c lSe am na dla lb o MuP atr s i svt ahties M opP vra ero mtb eyl n”e tm s:in ytho oe ne a sc ki a e uA la d bac ssstl oa cs kae n d t T ho i d s rY uo ifm u s” y, o ua r We I l N i i ka t ehc c j: ao a 2m d 2p ,a a shn a ni de o fd stt or cuy k m g peu aty . th is
edited by Reebee Garofalo,1992, South End Press.) I Te eon’ think you do — very hiigghhlly y recom-
have the same feeling about this that I get when I’m in eae Shimmering Fishbelly 1.
a public space, sitting at a table with an empty chair, September/ October 1997
Von
45
Olume 20 Number 3Feminist Bookstore News
Talkin’ Jazz /Gir] Talk. I must shamefa ced]
fess that when I saw this album from a ¥ con.
Norwegian jazz trio I was not expectin 2 all-female
exuberantly admit that I was greatly mi& stM au kc eh r, , bu 2t ]
Talk makes stupendous jazz! Tenor saxophonist Re inl
Niska (whose hometown of Hammerfest, orw a
the northernmost town in the world!) has had ae is
Rollins compare her tone to Stan Getz, and her ee
gentle, burnished sound definitely hangs in the :
neighborhood as Getz, Lester Young and Ben Webster
Ohio expatriate pianist Elizabeth Walker and Baa
Tine Asmundsen complete the Picture, They work in
a late 1940s—early 1950s groove as they shine their
creative light on their eponymous tune, Basie’s “Blue
and Sentimental,” Van Heusen/Burke’s “Polka Dots
and Moonbeams,” Styne/Cahn’s “I Fall In Love Too
Easily,” Monk's “Let’s Cool One,” Jobim’s “O Grande
Amor,” and others. This 1996 release has sent me to
jazz heaven. I defy anyone to not fall sighingly in love
with this little inanimate object. Hot Club Records 91.
Songs From the Nineline/Laurie Freelove. She
founded the wonder-dyke band Two Nice Girls in
the 1980s, then released a critically-acclaimed solo
' From the beginning of time, women have album Smells Like Truth. Since the record companies
gathered together to express their passions which released those albums have joined the big
through song. Join Alice Di Micele and distribution center in the sky, this 1997 “recorded live
several of the Pacific Northwest’s most at radio stations” release is the first stuff available
from her in a good while. Sounding somewhat like
_ powerful female singers in a circle of Marianne Faithfull with fewer cartons of cigarettes,
_ _ celebration of women everywhere with Laurie hauntingly sings her original compositions
_» prayerful thanks to Mother Earth. either solo or with the compelling harmonies of
~ Weavinga tapestry of voices and music, Gemma Cochran, accompanied simply by her ee
Fe the circle draws from its diverse cultural guitar or with didjeridoo, violin, percussion, et
' Tootsof Celtic, African-American, fretless bass. Her cover of “Dear Prudence,” recorde
Jewish,
Korean and Sicilian heritages, for a John Lennon Birthday Tribute for oe
(EB) CD/CS R2/R4 72879 with synth, talking drums and rainsticks, trans ! ies
the simple tune into a swirling, mystical ae et
_7 A Su Lg Pu Cst 19 $, 51 .9 99 87 CR se l $e 1a 0s .e tg io oo nd t fo avg oo r! teT hi as oo nn ge h ta hs Lb ae dc yo sm le ppa erb ig tp afe f—p e x
D 1 9 8 a l i m e i s
FarthBec easy feat. Chocolate Records 6909.
op] “Sh Heart * One Mind/ Elizabeth aes.
You remember The Sound of Music which ee right?
ire = | P.O. B eo mx ai l:1 8 4 06 m00 l- F po 3 @Rr 4 ie 6A d g-W w ch 4o a .4l y a4e , p 5 cP l .a C on Ae rt g 9® 55@ 60 E Bth l ae i r z oS a nt b eo e sr t sy h o Mf a i rst ihe at hA e v u os ngt r r Ti a ra n an d p d pf !aa um g Til hhy it, se r Vt h ee r o mv f o o nn t th a e ve i e e mr a- kss o ia n nm g ge -
_ Also available from Ladyslipper bw er ai ut te ir ulc ar mr ui se is on her isf a 1m 9i 9l 6y ret lr ea ad si et ,i on e© xq ru eis gi at ne ,
and Goldenrod f c . O n th p e
September/October
1997 angelic voice intertwines seamlessly with
irevceme tole
46—__ Feminist Bookstore News
p g dl ir ee a sn c ,d e d io cf b y c wl ifa o ts l hs k i -c s ha tl ay rle ma or nfr ila con u rg ie usm nh de e esn r.t ts H ne ero sf ho ar cui rg en ai t tn i ea n l g us smo ien clg aos l-, da et vm oo ts ip oh ne re t wh oat ec ne leb ra hte os al Al :
r h o , m ‘ t o m i s w maosornee’s feouendi
atterns vigorous and precise, echoing her back- director defi- nes the mis. si.o n of this ees react
round in folk, classical and liturgical traditions. ae we be Illinois. Sung in eleven different
Other family members do participate, and on the clos- Aiferce ane 8 on this collection are from 14
ing title track, an all-women’s vocal ensemble experiences, and hs i, sta on rd y f ofo cu ws o meon n . the T h. traditions, life
provides the other-worldly sounds of a medieval
from the spiritual to the politpoilitic al, but thtey eare aalsway s
choir. Von Trapp Music 201.
powerful. “Soon I Will Be Done,” a tribute to
Sojourner Truth, Harriet Tubman, and Audre Lorde,
Stirs the listener with its rhythmns and rich layering
of voices. The haunting “Strange Fruit,” first per-
formed by Billie Holiday and later by Sarah Vaughan
Right Now/Lisa McCormick. Maybe it’s her and Nina Simone, is done here a capella. “Todor
background as an English teacher, but this gal can Todorka” features two solitary women moving
write one mean song! These songs are witty, intelli- towards each other, singing in an undulating Balkan
gent, literate and original enough to rise above the style which required that one’s voice be heard from
teeming folk masses. Lisa sings about brief connec- mountain to mountain. Songs not sung in English are
tions with people in revolving doors (“Asteroids”), translated in the CD booklet. Amasong 9706.
the eerie emotional parallels of “Cars, Cars, Cars,” Cafe Mocha/Ivon Ulibarri. Hey, salsa fans, go no
relationships, unwitting obsession (“All I Want Is further! This amazing 1995 release is everything you
You”), coffee house wastrels (“If Anything Ever Hap- need! Ivon used to lead the women’s band Amigas y
pens”), and tosses out lines like “It’s one of those su Grupo Ritmo. Cafe Mocha, Ivon explains, “is coffee
tedious days where I am reading for meaning. Why with chocolate, a blend of two flavors. My music is a
that particular chicken? Why that particular road?” blending of many flavors: Caribbean rhythms with
from “Bored.” (And don’t forget the editor’s clear top 40-pop rhythms and Mexican rhythms.” The pre-
favorite, “Sex and Consequences.”) She has shared dominant flavor is good salsa, and Ivon and her
stages with Ani DiFranco, Patty Larkin, Aimee Mann album rightfully swept the 1995 New Mexico
and the Story. Rising Records 10103. Hispano Music Association awards! She sings her
Chronicles of the Way — Showers/Seattle original compositions, both in Spanish and English, in
Lesbian & Gay Chorus. Subtitled “A Journal of the a resonant voice that complements and enhances the
Lesbian, Gay and Bisexual Journey,” this 1996 release percolating rhythms of her band. Trust me on this one
contains an eleven-song choral musical by conduc- — highly recommended! Colbri Records 32195.
tor/artistic director David Maddux, known for his
Swellegant Elegance (performed by Philandros / Seattle
Men’s Chorus), among other compositions. While
m P co ra s en e ary t, do af l l bt yh ,te h e ca hc s ot ou rna ul g s ly mwr ei ec r ms e ew re ir sne s pi wc rr hee d oa te bd wy, rb eay ndt ah sis i n dc po am r- tt the sG ita ay r ak ati thS ei t tica a gr e/ H (oa 6f -s u n hii n oeP u,a t se l a. n ad dH aa a ys f !t )u e r sb m he eag na bn y cs ayea el ar i s n t<e hO
e s b e k e o e 8 r , e m e
e s t aNo u hx s tp er t uch dee mca ue Os n hss v.”d osw oio rt Srh st te “k h hi e er “g Ict e h on do u m rLoau ti sm hg un u euh ie tn at tl ii ss y ah, t sy .c ef h re dr e iol htI Gtni on san i c .og yc a.ls Sl l., u ue d Ces ee hd eras eor xtt che th ea e o“ /m C ts l ta m”, i l nv l ce ss eha ean rM nnod ief .i tt hd hjBe “e ioy a s etc h M io— y hg- AF of (fi r gs dBt a a wcVw r aio o id m a voa un i gan m tooIe tt idno rda ni ir otl a ,e i ,. ic e i gS rv Oh ee e h na hs tnh ta a Mzm is nu sd gs rnei uuc gv t,e d ll ie o ,7g tep r aee e “d se a ia e t s ett my h nael be e rU on ef /u i ev p te l oi or aa bes y dn i i et n ! y g
o sn n , b u az i
cD t alia e bs m , ) e r uo n e a” HP t er t i rl( a ed e e uf enb sB ’ b l o W u a g n ote t E & cx i a I r l ” a g v a ww g o a n r bz u a su lA, eh e 1 a . t p o wd cs g ieu b e DfD c r d a t a— - ne e i d n n e s lg oi/ e t o h t c r e n a d l o c a h tS y o l G ee d” ” d p ew sh n si s ec i h s i s t o n K m 1 ad h9e es 9 n r ) g ra ahs e e eu pie n r ao p aln e e y s e x p cee ee t 9.
t p f r l n S t e O e r 1 97
ee
47
Volume 20 Number 3Femc inoisrt eBlo okstore News
Mt You’ve heard that pella group from Ontario, Ca an, n am du lt_ ti -ra ;
music sells great. release, they blend traditional, contem IS 199¢
Goldenrod Mus\e- original songs in English, French, Swahitine and
and Xhosa in a variety of styles ang th Japanese
makes it easy too: originals include “When A Woman” (“ ythms,
cm ei ln ed b, att eo l te ha ve lift he shs ha md ao kw es of hf ae ta tfut don e
Shipping
ay r e e e s , W
oe me 2 ve Shipping for 3 Orders) woman who’s free”) and “Stand Up”
Large Selection proud when we speak out of that Place th
7 No Risk - 100% Returns you to me beyond gender and Trace”). Other hj hii
are the South African “Mbombela” and the Bes ao
v Knowledgeable Staff Rickie Lee Jones “Woody and Dutch,” Malaika 001 a
vv( v. v.. van vd vf vun vt vo vt Val vk Vt vo! V) nK ge e CTp nsO n inM o 1v 9i 9n 5’ oF -o cbr oaw ra dr idd a/ dS eyh i nr hl eme y uM la ue lS p lr ei vn
v v VY S Bt ea it je in . hh ii A c h o r a g te os e ta o tt r ra av e l e d nts-
a n n t c e
Call collect for a free catalog of women's for the U.N. Women’s Conference an
music, gay and lesbian music, Celtic and theme song, Pat Humphries’ d to perform the
“Keep On Movin’
Native (A 5m 1e 7r )i can 8m 4u -si 1c 1an 2d more. SF ho ir rw la eyr d. M” In ana gd di fot ri o an ht oo urt he o pe pn ri eln ug ce tor e Hm io ln ay r,
4 7 a e s n a s a d e y
Rodham Clinton’s speech. On her 1996 Telease, she
reprises the title track, along with Libby Roderick’s
“How Could Anyone”and “Low To The Ground,” a
nd aep nm se gv ie ee tv ie er xd ro cn ki f prt uai sSt eo i mln ;aa cr o g wt tnm nti ha du“ uv cl sR ne “ ia “R csg ca(R aa -ia sm aa vog o lrg ena eo Y ra dd sia ) eslm B. D aa h fia 1n sa vr ori I b nr 4K en ga ea eba v c sr lul i l rsb rL.yu fa i”a id mkr ne e,is H m” - a hIK s Eat ea u rh snn gn ee td a P sd a ut iv , t ah ae e” e setl .r y e j1 Ta w. ot hnr bahd ole ni ny tf usf - api dm tacc o to rnu p ir l tsu nn it gal- ei et na n do tgr g -- PlaIaPbr t rnnneh le yde otdou g peg Mrl usia aeyn ce ha. es t” p ii “a oMoor lWr ia S srhr at i a lei sn on n g 1nnng .ti Wa hie nl eoegm LE de uv sg en po b hnr it s o rey bp t te h o l Wf - wo ti s ihon m te“ lf a oT l ,h ne ri Jc h’ s et w a re i n d tL hi d siht t “ ndol H b gme rro sa “ .l cW nL dkd e ’si - sg Su eh hO A pt inn r o, he lr” eo v f yo rA ca l ,nPaM ln Ml ei d zi Sn s ehO pe t 'n lt, s rh se e’ , -e
iMuewd d ri ev t c o r aa ro e ,e d c n a s e F I a t t c d a he h l i) s / cyK o or 9I i e 9 fl r l eo o co re . oe od r t do n i t i nu s g e i a nd b m sr y o o e d u i n u s ao l l ao c ahb le i n o p d a e e d tn a e t c ic nan m f tp t a i m e t ’ ir y s K iC nh go h i O r n . e ( C w h oW l o e l / h O C r e o g i a i ao e id )
o n e s
e n t l
Walela/Walela
(Rita Coolidge et a). This
first introduced as part of Robbie Roberson Rita
Road Ensemble, consists of Cane
es
dCo ao ul gi hd tg ee, he Lr us ri ast er SP ar ti ts ec ri fll ia ldC .o oli Td hg ee i, an 19d = ombc ih na et
r a e r 9 s
anchored by their exquisite vocal blend, that filled
tt hh ee ii rr C ch he ilr do hk oe oe he hr oi mt ea .g e Fw ri ot mh t “h Te es o bun id ls ” Clt eo ant ,h ”e
d
h e ,
r thh ey yt hm di ec l ived rr u pm um ri en g ouof “W aa ns dh bY eo au ur i a ay
s n d t y, &
spirit...ranging temporary
from traditional and con
umber 3
48 Volume 20 Ng Ne atie Feminist
Bookstore
ve American to pop with gospel tinges. Also News
Hdi irn gec hnl l,u y”d es r “ eC ci“ orC mch mle e e r no do ek f de !e Li TgM rh io t l,r o”n k ai n ag 6n 0 d 4 9.S o “n Ag m,” a zi“ nE ga rth G raC ch ei .l ”- eM 5 o ns 1a kt l o - ,ar ” ee P q “u Tahe “ eas yO t u ee gd h A t rea e s o Rn F a lhl i ing All Aroun* d “T Mes et ,i ” “More
All Spirits Sing/Joanne Shenandoah. This inal. A dvettised ee) n Chili dren, ” and % “BreatT hsa ;”e 3 4
award-winning Iroquois singer and storyteller pre- in the Feminj
Fall Catalog. Rounder ‘aie Bookstore Network
sents an epic musical journey of a young Iroquois girl
Give Your Hands to
searching for her own voice and song. Join in her quest
filled with adventure and magic, as she gets crooned
by the moon, meets a turtle who speaks in “funny
r tii fd ud l les b, l” e na dn id n gs in og fs tw ri at dh i tith oe n alw olv Ie rs o. q uoO if sf er ci hn ag n ta s be aa nu d- except that Bernice herself is singing all the harmoniz- 7
I Lin tg lev ,o ”i c “es T, eya nd it Faf le la it nu gr e As c Ala rs os uic ns s Mu ec ,h a “s Ro“ oJ moa nn
Joanne’s contemporary expression of her culture’s t h A re l l d ” In
v aa ndl ue hs umt oh rro ou ug sh ms eo sng s, a geth is f or1 9 a9 n7 yor ne ele as we h os en had ss ea v ew ra r fem lt Oth re i giC ni arc ll le y, ” sua bn td i tl“ eT dh er Te h’ es EA voN lue tw i onW or ol f d a C Fo rm ei en dg o. m”
shy about singing, yet wished more than anything Fighter, this is an important historical documentary
that they could. Music for Little People 72748. which has thankfully been preserved. Smithsonian
Folkways 40049.
Behold!/Linda Hirschhorn and Vocolot. Draw-
ing upon ancient and contemporary sources that
evoke the spiritual power of centuries of Jewish
Lessons From the Animal People/Dovie women, this five-woman vocal ensemble (who take
Thomason with Ulali. Selected by the American
See Music, page 123.
Library Association as a 1997 Children’s Notable
Recording, this collection of Native American stories
is retold by Lakota/Kiowa Apache storyteller Dovie Can You Afford Not to Call?
Thomason, with music by the female a cappella trio (800) 634-6044
Ulali. The nine stories, “for people of all ages, nations
and races,” come from the Lakota, Catawba, Algon-
The Most Extensive Selection
quain, Penobscot, and other tribes. Taught to her by
her grandmother, Dovie explains that “they are the
of Recordings by Women
traditional way to guide young (and not so young)
lives without punishment or embarrassing confronta-
tion. Through the mistakes, bad choices, and often
unruly antics of the animal people we are shown Feminist/(Women’s Music + Comedy + World
human weaknesses and gently and humorously
Drumming/Percussion + Rock/Pop + Spoken
reminded to look at our own.” Yellow Moon 50.
Selections (2-Set)/Sweet Honey in the Rock. Alternative + Soundtracks + Men's Music
With this 1997 release, Sweet Honey, formed in 1973,
Moves toward the quarter-century mark witha look Blues + Spirituality # Jazz + Classical
back at their finest recordings on the Flying Fish and International # and much more...
Count ry +
Redwood labels, 1976-1988. The repertoire of this
Powerful a cappella ensemble of African American
Women singers covers an unprecedented range of LADYS
Original and traditional songs based in an historical
legacy of resistance against oppression. With an Distributing Music By Women Si
Nationally
€xciting range of vocal styles and harmonic blends,
this two-volume edition features many of their September/ October 1997
Von
Olume 29 Number 3 49News
Bookstore
Feminist
Carolyn Burke
S Tu ws ian igBo hr td o Zones B The c Lo ifm i on g naM o Ld oye rn
l
e e f Mi
IT mhe geH si d fd re on L Pi lfe too f tC ul Ot Ju .r al November, $18.95 paper, 21089-1
a m a o Mae West, Sex
September, $27.50 cloth 21101-4 Mary Lowenthal Felstiner Entertainment po American
To Paint Her Life November, $17.95 Paper, 21094.9
R. Marie Griffith
Daughters Charlotte Salomon in the Peggy Reeves Sanday
God’s
A Woman
Evangelical Women and the Nazi Era Scorned
Power of Submission November, $16.95 paper, 21066-2 Acquaintance Rape on Trigl
September, $24.95 cloth, 20764-5 With a new preface,
November, $14.95 Paper, 21099.]
C a l i
orntia
EFA -L EL 1-9. 20 i.
Flora Fraser
The Unruly Queen
The Life of Queen Caroline
October, $17.95 paper, 21275-4
Norma Field Rickie Solinger, Editor
From My Abortion Wars
Barbara Newman
Sister of Wisdom Grandmother’s A Half Century of Struggle
St. Hildegard’s Theology of the Bedside 1950-2000
Feminine January, $16.95 paper 20952-4
Sketches of Postwar Tokyo
DW iit sh c oga raN pe hw y Preface, Bibliography and November, $24.95 cloth 20844-7 Sharon Ullman
October, $14.95 paper, 21162-6 Sex Seen
of Modern
Emergence
The
Sexuality in An
ISBN Prefix 0-520 January, $16.95 paper ?
UToll-f Nree or Iders: pho Ene 8 R00-7 S77-47 I26, TSax Y800- 999-19568
V :
PRED
F CALIFORNIA
=
September/ October 1997
Volume 20
50ART
BOOKS
By Tee A. Corinne
tN ore grw ris hdF sl a sh w: hiiS t ho l e cln uM llo m e bbn ot os btb ioy lJ ebu dld ay lF er saa bnn idc a-e nws hc so etn nei amd re u tl igi ssg hF ta bfn w out h rla i s c t hci wac t s tm hF a e w nl h y oi i n c te h es o of pegb u try s a oce sL d ia r su ir c nae krl d s f, rB o au rr mt e- .c sh h bi or tf nse es,a et lu fa dr -n ie sds stt ehhh )tee
j pu hst o a av pe . I t s c a o o v e dy e sk u f t c “k - i - t n i s r ( a r A t a e u ag
sual photographs.” Beautiful, sultry, passionate, the
perfect conversation starter (or stopper). Although
pricey, it is a terrific gift item. $29.95 pb, no ISBN,
published by Judy Francesconi Photography. Avail-
able from BP.
Additionally, The White Blackbird: A Life of the
Painter Margarett Sargent By Her Granddaughter,
Honor Moore, has just come out in paperback. It is a
poetic, compellingly written story about a bisexual
artist who struggled to make a place for her gifts
within the upperclass confines of her life. $14.95 pb,
0-14-024920-6, Penguin.
Healing Legacies: Art and Writing by Women
Who Have Faced Breast Cancer is a beautifully pre-
sented exhibition catalog with color reproductions of
the artwork in which 32 women share their stories and
art. It is a small book with a tremendous impact. See
the Sidelines issue (page 55) for more information. $9
pb, The Jewish Hospital of St. Louis/Breast Cancer
Action Group. 50%. Distributed by Matuschka, PO
Box 29, Lake Hill NY 12448; 914-679-2131.
Wet: On Painting, Feminism, and Art Culture by
Mira Schor is a particularly insightful, heterosexual
history of women’s art production and major issues of
the last 30 years. Erudite and well informed, it is an
nsider’s take on what has happened (and is happen-
ng) by the co-founder of the influential art journal
M/E/A/N/I/N/G. Sexist art by men, the Guerrilla Girls,
mages of the penis, essentialism/anti-essentialism,
“sual pleasure, and more are dealt with in a highly Rhylorien n'a Rose b iy s h L. HT o. spE id ti as lo n, of i Sn t . He Loa ul ii sn /g
aafee form. ? $14.95 pb, 0-8223-1915-2; $45.95 cl, caseie rs a(T he CJ ae nw ci es r Acti‘ o n Group)
10-1, Duke University Press.
September /October 1997
Wo
Olume 20 Number 3
51, News
Femi‘nnisit sB Bto o co kstore
Nouveau artists to Produce images gf
also a lesbian and, along with her Joy er, FyU]l le
many lesbian histories. $299 5 ale a figures in
Northeastern University Press ’ 9553-309 4
It is a treat to have Rosa Bonheyy. 1
(Auto)biography by Anna Klumpke e, tranh se l ategt i St’
Gretchen van Slyke, available in En lish iy
(1822-1899), a lesbian born in France a Bonhe
formidable talent into painting animals an her
unconventional life, and received sp ecial i ahi |
to wear pants in public. Klumpke, a — TMission
U.S.-born painter, was Bonheur’s second shea
This combination autobiography and bog eae
originally published in 1908, includes a vibrant a Y,
duction by the translator. $39.50 cl, 0-479-10895 5
University of Michigan Press. ‘
ISBN: A Female Focus: Great Women Photographe
ae 0-9510
ae GAIA RDYTIDS FOR WoMYN 661-9-6 by Margot F. Horwitz is a generalized introduction to
WISE WOOYN WAYS the subject, suitable perhaps for young adult readers
(no sex, lesbians are called “single women,” etc). |
A best-selling astrological moon calendar and more... was disturbed by small inaccuracies in the book, but
MOoTHER TONGUE INK—IN OUR 17TH YEAR loved the numerous images of women photogra-
phers. Horwitz mentions work by African Americans:
37010 S. Snuffin Road, Estacada, OR 97023; USA
ph: 503-630-7848; e-mail: wemoon@teleport.com Elnora Teal, Elise Forrest Harleston, Eslanda Cardoza
Goode Robson, and Jeanne Moutoussamy-Ashe and
the Jamaican-born Winifred Hall Allen; however the
and a mother of two, Burch turned her gift for creating reproductions are almost all of work by whitewomen.
colorful, dramatic creatures into an international busi- $9.95 pb, 0-531-15830-6, Franklin Watts/Grolier.
ness. Fantastic Felines has many photographs of Distributed by Ingram, B&T, etc.
Burch at work and the art she has created, from jew-
elry designs and popular items, to gallery-appropriate
objects and paintings. This book is delightful and
inspiring, a terrific gift for oneself or someone else.
$29.95 cl, 0-8118-1644-3, Chronicle Books. f |)
Loie Fuller: Goddess of Light by Richard In Praise of Our Fathers and Our Mone :
N iel eso n lC itu er rr ae lln yt ba en ed M Wa ar ic ti ia Ew yei an rg C fou rr re Fn ut eris (a 1b 8o 6o 2k aB nl da ck rtF ia stm si ly ompTr ie la es du ry b Wy deO ut Hs ut da sn od ni ng F ane tee
n n g s . ll - A c by a a re
ee Q ee
but very smart Mid- Willis Hudson presents the work of over a
uoyant Spirit, who grew up porary writers and artists, almost
and Singing. In New York City in women. Complex and intense, it isab
the dramatic impact produced
by touch readers’ hearts and stir their dream Glenwood
0-940975-59-9. Just Us Books Inc. ea
Avenue, East Orange NJ 07017. Distribu
and Red Sea Press. ses 0
Some books reflect the oe once well:
women’s art movement's republiciziné Jatet
- onored bY
known artists whose work had been 18% ashion and
. F
September/ October 1997 (male) historians. Sonia Del ae
Volume 20 N
52_——
Fabrics by Jacques Damase is a delight, with the
kind of complex designing of page layouts which
surely would have brought a smile to the subject’s
Ove & To
face. Delaunay, born in Russia (1885-1979), created inda Otto Lj sett
dashing, colorful, bold designs which heralded the Il are available one,
“modern” era in painting and clothing. The sensu-
ous photographs of fabrics are breathtaking and
$Di 3n e 4t l .e a 9g 5ur nat a pe y bd w ae 0nl -dl 0w 0oi f t 2h 7m 9o 4t d 7e ex -t l 0, s dr W Ta e hw ai arn mg i es n s, g a ahn ned dr i c Hm l ua og dte shs i n ng ..o f oa fy yow ur*i eg l cSe utrs se te p mR wi eis rli l sn g s: e l olT uh w le e l ]A r lO ot yno lf y D ifo n yon ua kH no ow wel l t- hS Bti
, 5 - , o o w d a a
Distributed by W.W. Norton.
:
aes
N30 e% f Yo or rk1 -9 N, D 1i 0s 0t 0ri 3b -u 9t 5e 5d b 8y 0A -r 7t 2i 2s -a 7n 2, 2.7 08 Bh iop cPr we as ns.
w Y 5 ; 0 0
a
Heart of the Circle: Photographs by Edward S.
Curtis of Native American Women, edited by Sara ——
Day, introduction by Pat Durkin, presents images she could be your mother, your sister,
made around the turn of the century by a man dis-
tressed by the vanishing way of life of American your neighbor, your colleague.
Indians. The images have been criticized as romantic
and for not always being truthful — sometimes he she’s just like anyone you know,
had people dress in authentic clothing borrowed except she’s living with HIV.
from museums — yet the pictures of strong, memo-
rable faces are powerful. $29.95 pb, 0-7649-0006-4,
Pomegranate.
High Plains Farm, photographs and text by
Paula Chamlee, is a picture story about the Texas P \La * e As S ONTY . Ty+
Panhandle, but it is also a story about looking at one’s a positive life
Toots 33 years after leaving home. Chamlee’s parents,
in their 80s, still work the farm where she was raised.
These photographs are both document and testament;
Aye Babe 4 110
luminous, full of open spaces and exquisite details. HIV
$60 cl, 0-9605646-8-3, Lodima Press. Distributed by
University of New Mexico Press.
I come from a family of craftswomen and have A POSITIVE LIFE
a deep love for traditional women’s art forms. Over PORTRAITS OF WOMEN LIVING WITH HIV
the years, Quilt Digest Press has published a number INTERVIEWS BY RIVER HUSTON
of books which celebrate the history of quiltmaking PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARY BERRIDGE
in beautiful color reproductions and feature the quil-
428 PAGES, 11/4" x 9°
ters in photographs and stories. Some currently 30 FULL-COLOR PHOTOGRAPHS
F0a C r-v ea ili eel nba drb sal he t ii pn 7t g -i 6t Ql )te u;s h e ti RT sn er c al bu d yd i me t: Li io nn rQ dsu i bl My Oet t:m tK oa a k r We e Lor n s eF ea tni to l f (( aA $$ nu 21 ds 48 t ..r 99 Ta 55 l ei pp ia bb: ,, 2P hA A P nR eE oD uR lC teB (O 8A V 02C 0rE )eKR 4s$$ 5Se1 t2 -n7 r7 5e.. 3e9 t5 55 ,i0 I hI TS :S oB lB aN ldN r0 p0 e- h- - i77 a76 6 f26 2 :2 x4 :4 - - 0 (0 2 81 4 09 048 )-- iX2 53— 28U ,
8 4 4 2 - 2 6 0 i l m e b e a ipm s h r To orde Tr o, l l-c fa rl el e 4y po 5u r o S s :a h s 2 n p dr 4 e t a t 9 v ,e P i l i -e fln e , a 4 -. 84
-8442-2650-5); Plain and Fancy: Vermont's People
and Their Quilts as a Reflection of America by
September /October 1997
—,
Volume 20 Number 3 53Bookstore News
Feminist
Men and Women!
PA'S LINE «n.sescscceccercsccncescesrsrereneceesensensecssenses $19.95
CRONE THE WORLD THE LESBIAN WAY ........... $29.95
BORN IN FLAMES ...........-:-:c00:ceeeseeseeeseesertetenenteeenes $29.95
BREAKING THE SURFACE ..............0.:2::20c2eeeerereeeeee $49.95
CELLULOID CLOSET ............:::sccsscerrsrseteeereeseeerenees $19.95
HERCULES AND THE AMAZON WOMEN............... $18.95
HONEY, PASS THAT AROUND .. . .......:-0:ceeeseteeees $19.95
PTS AY PAR Uc crceectse seco toneesutecsccr eceegcvesrsoasscecsresav e $19.95
LEA DELARIA: THE QUEEN OF COMEDY ............. $29.95
LIE DOWN WITHIDOGS snccectiecice-tossacesesssstrcavceeteneaes $19.95
LIVE NUDE: GIRLS ic... -ckecccszectetpccacactotepsenoseseconnhes $19.95
WAU RIC Br oorecccectnri. coc vcebcasdiknssscudc pocseeaccwst ee taceeoaa es $14.95
PARTING: GLEANCES ds, oo. occcattocoss tasvasseocactrteeinsee s $29.95
OUT THERE: Lea DeLaria .......................ccceccceeseeceees $12.95
OUT THERE 2: Amanda Bearse ....................2.--2000 $12.95
OUT THERE IN HOLLYWOOD: Scott Thompson... $12.95
AERESA'S TATTOOS 4... oe ee ee $19.95
WILDSIDE: Pe Fe aicecsteattt ectesanca-stynetaneeeesreet, $19.95
Hundred’s more
available!
Erotica for the Men...
esLUs e Ha Sa yt S CB HE OIS MRS T EP S YO E SS S>T tOWAR BM OO YM EN oo.T S essW acI TH eeJ OH eeA N ee.. ......... n... e... .. $$ 22 99 .. 99 55
Dep y F -t t e
BOW 2 | ccsticuacats ee ee $29.95
BOY. 3:5. 3 ee SOR erie ak il ae $29.95
BOY 4 eho re el eet eer $29.95
CHAIN REACTION ..........ccccccccccecseceees $29.95
MAD ABOUT THE BOY ...................5.. $39.95*
SUMMER: THE FIRST TIME............... $39.95*
BARELY LEGAL SieSan 0 ee) $29.95
COLLEGE BOYS 26 31 =e $29.95
CZECHIMATING = tics ....c.-..sdeefehtees $29.95
BUR OS Re is cork See $29.95
LOVERIBOVS . 2s eee $29.95
SNOW BADLS ote. cee. weet $29.95
Call for SUNSHINE AFTER THE RAIN.........--- $29.95
complete list of VULCAN: BOYS OF SUMMER..........- $29.95
Books and Videos, * FEATURE LENGTH VIDEO
The Naiad
Press,
Inc
P (. 8O 5. 0 ) Bo 5x 3 9-1 50 95 64 53 «¢ FT aa yl la (h a ssee, FL 32302
850) 539-9731 » 1-800-533-1 973
September /October 1997
54Aes.
GAY MEN’S Femi [nist |Books Ttore News
FOR FEMINIST BOOKSTORES
AB y DiR fi fc eh ra er nd t L Lia gb ho tn t Be o okstores b $1o 2o .k 9 5 ab po b,u t 0-a 94r 2e 7g 7i -o 1n 6 -o 2f , th Fe l ow ao tr il nd g Ln oot t uso .f ten ali
Gay Love Poetry edited by Neil Powell — From
More new books for Fall and Winter; the (*) the contemporary (Thom Gunn) to the classical
starred ones are, as always, titles I particularly like. (Ovid, Martial, Marlowe), this 272-page compilation
of words, some of which rhyme, breaks no new
Fiction/Mystery/Drama/Poetry ground but brings to one volume an astonishing
*The Burning Plain by Michael Nava — A new selection of gay verse. $11.95 pb, 0-7867-0469-1,
Nava mystery is cause for glee; he’s a brilliant writer Carroll & Graff, PGW.
who drapes astonishing insights into the human con- “Holiday On Ice by David Sedaris — The popu-
dition around plots which suck in the reader. This lar and enormously funny author of Barrell Fever and
Henry Rios book is set in the movie world of Los Naked is repackaged in this Christmas-season collec-
Angeles. $22.95 cl, 0-399-14310-6, December, Putnam. tion including The Santaland Diaries, two other
*Vermilion by Nathan Aldyne — Alyson contin- reprints and the new, acerbic title piece. Give one as a
ues its resurrection of some of our classics with this gift before you get one. $14.95 cl, 0-316-77998-9,
first of four snappy early-80s mysteries featuring a December, Little, Brown.
sharp-tongued Boston bartender and his wise-crack- Isaac Mizrahi Presents the Adventures of
ing woman ally; it’s the prototype for a subsequent Sandee the Supermodel, or Yvesaac’s Model Diaries
decade of gay mysteries from the likes of Mark Rich- by Isaac Mizrahi and William Frawley — A camp
ard Zubro, Grant Michaels and Richard Stevenson. classic-in-the-making: three 32-page comic books
$10.95 pb, 1-55583-434-5, Alyson. packaged ina portfolio box, assessing and dissing the
*Gay Fairy & Folk Tales: More Traditional fashion world. $29.95 cl, 0-684-83511-8, November,
Stories Retold for Gay Men by Peter Cashorali — Simon & Schuster.
The author of the bestselling Fairy Tales takes 13 classic
stories (by the likes of Grimm, Anderson and Per-
teault) and recasts them with trademark gentle
homour as queer tales for our times. $19.95 cl, 0-571-
M1 B bon9 mo h,vy9 ru a2 kl z06 ned s“ i“- rr ,B7 e e, s y ewt fAaN c— 1to l0hA av Lzm ce 2I ioie fm nr b lt-at 7i ge ah ,ecr a o, h rn i wg oF h oua eG veb &a ee as ay r nyt a rn mn& ocF d cooi twa nc zF ar it a s.d nib qee o aur n eo e. nf or2 it h tge re ed ni 1 At 9 se g9 id 6 abne eb ad y i vt aii dB no Gr dbn dari itoa demn 5i s D t rh be ta ,ver lt ar ti rvc* h ieik $S 5ls 1’ ah rs y f 9a 5l t -iD ih lff 4cea e r em&ed 5’ ,t od s nu 6y r sn gg es ta n5.y Ob 5, ey 5u 8p oha rns biC nd i eca rd 9n 8me tNa h -i p-a cms sd n lto f nw aa grtn iP lh a te r .e,r k w p’ bfe h s pwr ore n,n nl to m— syv e Ph r se .B fl oid ara s ni ctyac es k .c 9mo e eav t e -ne ae tr e s n
P K ‘n Ma a u s ae ll b - ee —S m3 l e ’1 l x s o6m , -ae g Q sh ou o2e e or y ks, 9 ae n e r B s t mio f, of hu n o r l L or g ij ed t L sr h t l or gy ,n w a’ s l dB s ag N , oo d e l d n l iM e sne c B t s d)i S o l e i o fn fu n s n o gl hdf i t ie r bs n cc e yt ea p i sn :r n B a i e d t d n . s aA r ut $o ( 1 gf 3 . a ie 9 y na t t l a a pt o e hw eo i en s o . t t , Sa h ctr i 5m o ay 0 r 5o lt . 8t ss M d 3st fii a ldfh p t i b i ris r ’e n sn i a S1 ,t k a- i l rm n di a f etT n u ob3 i ny -s , f 3 l o iT ,i s ni h E i 5a Ae h A, i h yi M w sin O w ols c g l h nlh yd i o r ho e p r i i l 7 t ] ut e h g e A e t e A ts r j t er o ci t ti a o a *n 'o e ¥
l i e : c 1 - 2 - c t
September /October 1997
0
Volume 20 Number 3 55Feminist Bookstore News *The Farewell Symphony ee
Bg eK nt op af h a sr tde ucf be oo br v oe rrt n)wh oe r ftek al lD hsa eb ry y t h e lA olb S cy y o s u eo dtnA h,n e id r te nh r i mss t oao tlo en in oe o nf aF ( laa o r r gr i r ee g iil e enl v i ea nf ge . 4T B lo o0h vy 0e e' - rs p l lo O u an w sg n m- aa p nw aS ga to ei or t fy e , n ld a T tr the r een a td s.iB e vt a e $o u 2t 5W i ah f bi u co lt l ,u e t’ 0R s -o 3o b 9c m 4eo -m 4iIi s n 4n aea ut tW irh s aii dalt o uhge ley a (4
d a t k n e , e r 3 e t a
over the son’s desire to bury his lover in the ancestra How Long Has This Been Goi ng On oe
family plot. $10.95 pb, 1-55583-429-9, Alyso . Mordden — Paper edition of a 600-page y Ethan
The Good Life by Gordon Merrick with Charles account of gay life, mostly in Manhattan Pege-tumer
G. Hulse — There have been rumours of a last, just a few years ago. $14.95 pb, 0-51 1949 to
ou fn f Ti hn is Lh oe rdd Wn oo nv 'e tl Ml ief nt ,b e Nhi on wd Leb ty th Tae kl a At be ou( t1 98 M8 u) sia cu th ano dr October, St. Martin’s /Stonewall. 16867-5,
e d ' s l
a fistful of other classics; this is it, completed by his
companion. $12.95 pb, 1-55583-298-9, Alyson.
Kept Boy by Robert Rodi — Paper edition of a
witty prolific writer’s fifth book, this one about a kept
boy learning to be a man. $12.95 pb, 0-452-27345-5, . Chain of Fools by Richard Stevenson — Paper
edition of the seventh in Stevenson’s popular Donald
November, Plume.
Equal Affections by David Leavitt — New paper Strachey y mysmytsetreireiess. $11.95, ; 0-312- 16796-2: , November
edition of Leavitt's fine early novel about a mother St. Martin’s/Stonewall. ;
with cancer and her queer offspring, one a guarded *Packing Up for Paradise: Selected Poems
lawyer, the other an up-front lesbian folksinger. $12 1946-1996 by James Broughton — This collected
pb, 0-8021-3531-5, October, Grove. work of a film, memoir and poetry pioneer of the
Brothers of the Night: Gay Vampire Stories edited gay arts, edited by Jim Cory, is a marvelous summa-
by Michael Rowe and Thomas S. Roche — Seems that tion of a life filled with lust, love and a seductive
there are gayboy vampires as well as lesbiangirl ones. playfulness. $16 pb, 1-57423-052-2, October, Black
Chill out and read this sexy collection of genre erotica. Sparrow.
$14.95 pb, 1-57344-025-6, November, Cleis. *Tokyo Vanilla by Thomas Boggs — The author,
*Porcelain and a Language of Their Own: Two
whose mother was Japanese and father American,
Plays by Chay Yew — From a Singapore-bred play- writes with an insider’s keen sense of Japan’s social
wright now working at the prestigious Mark Taper
attitudes toward gayness; this is the coming-out story
Forum in L.A. come two poetic dramas of racial grief of a young college student torn between love for his
and cross-cultural love. $12 pb, 0-8021-3500-5, Grove. straight friend and comfort as a professor’s kept boy.
$14.95 pb, 0-85449-255-0, November, Gay Men's
Press, LPC /InBook.
White Rose of Night by Mel Keegan — Rip-
roaring historical fiction, set in twelfth-century
England, where 15-year-old Paul becomes the squire
to, and eventually lover of, a Saxon knight. $14.95 pb,
free adaptation of
0-85449-256-9, November, Gay Men’s Press:
died in 1986; the
$9.95 pb, 0-8112- FreeForm by Jack Dickson — A tough new 82Y
cop makes his debut in this Glasgow-set mystery gle
Overtones of S/M. $12.95 pb, 0-85449-257-7, Novem
ber, Gay Men’s Press, LPC /InBook. .
Maurice Vellekoop’s ABC Book: A Homoerolic
Primer for Grown-Ups by Maurice Vollekoop
From hairdressers to opera singers, truckers t oe
toys, every letter of the alphabet is invested pe
naughtily with a celebration of gay male archetyP
and saucy sexual scenarios; could be the tle sit
September/October 1997
56=~ =,
Pe ‘
book of the holiday season. $12.95 cl, 0-889539-04-x,
November, Gates of Heck, Inc., LPC/InBook.
Non-fiction
*Particular Voices: Portraits of Gay and Lesbian
Authors by Robert Giard — Photographer Giard has
been traveling America for a decade, capturing the
images of writers at home; this collection of just 184 of
those existing-light portraits, each Paired with an
fe rx oc me rp tt f pr ho om ot gh re apw hr ei rte r t’ os ouw ro r lk i, erais a cm ou ms mt u- nh ia tv ye $gi 4f 5t Is this the Crossover
h e t t r y . book, at last
cl, 0-262-07180-0, MIT. the gay book which will actually
*Staring Back: The Disability Experience from
the Inside-Out edited by Kenny Fries — Women and Sell to straights?
men, gay and straight, discuss how they deal with a
world in which they are physically “other.” $15.95 pb,
0-452-27913-5, October, Plume. Sex Tips for Straight Women from a Gay Man
son —* T To hw ia sr d b oot khe - leN ne gw t h D ee sg se an y er (aa c sy ho rtb y boB or ku :c e 60 Be Pn ad ge er s)- cby r osD sa on v erA n bd oe or ks , on at la an std , tM ha eg g gi ae y bB oe or km a wn h ic— h I ws ilt lh is a ctt uh -e
is a well-wrought broadside at how dominant class ally sell to straights? It ain’t high art, butitis hilarious.
cc uul lt tu ur re e, oe ve pn vea rm tyo .n g $10t he b,h ip, -9h 6a 4s 46lo 6s -t -i 3ts li En dk get wo isth ee $16 p Gb, a y0 -0 Q6 u- e0 s3 t9 i2 o3 n2- s0 :, 2R 2e 9g a Pn oB no do ek rs a/ lH ea sr pe ar bC oo ul tl ins Y.
f o p 0 6 3 , b o ur
Press; 212-982-4818. Gay Life by Jerry Holderman — How gays think, act,
feel as revealed through 96 pages of questions, some
T Kh ve etK ci hn eg o bf K Ji an ffg es Coan hd I: —T he amG pre ya te as nt gS ut io lr ty Nco on vf er mo bn et ri ,ve , lys so om n.e cute. $8.95 pb, 1-55583-438-8,
Ever d y e n C d - A
ridden, hilarious and wholesome, here’s a comic’s- The Gay & Lesbian Guide to Personal Finance
eye view of growing up Jewish in a suburban by Theodore E. Hughes and David Klein — When
Christian world; of coming out and growing up and there’s one book on sucha focused topic, it’s a miracle;
learning to be a gay man. $20 cl, 0-06-251501-2, two, synchronicity; three is definitely a trend, and this
HarperSanFrancisco.
is the third-such work in 1997 providing “essential
Gay Men at the Millenium: Sex, Spirit, Commu- information for planning your financial future.”
nity edited by Michael Lowenthal — A wise $14.95 pb, 1-55583-439-6, November, Alyson.
Usual-suspects array of contemporary queer writers *Jocks: True Stories of America’s Gay Male
(Kushner, Bawer, Sullivan, Holleran, Weir, Doty, Athletes by Dan Woog — Woog, author of School's
Matousek, Cooper, Campo, Doty...) considers the state Out, presents more than two dozen profiles of openly
of the invert union and its prospect for the 21st gay athletes, shattering the stereotype ae ou ope
Century. $15.95 pb, 0-87477-892-1, October, Putnam. and being athletic zn incompatible. 95 pb,
ss -399-3, January, Alyson.
; oe Ce stk Guide by pee ee
daa en fd iT th ie rN ma bget oari o kn a hl tL he s etb oi ra gn ia tn sd ioG ofa eGy atH e Ca Al t oeh sA ss s 2o ec i
T h ee vf eo a s s oi ns ta mn ’d si r e ec zo ar M oH et e sa em do ee
h ee ea ali en g byJ es Bu rs u: Ho Baw erF u —n da Tm he nt aua tl hi es m B Ae t Pr la ay cs l na d i n g y e a l a n t n o
at i e c e w e r of e i o n
-
f6 a y v© l eiT .fa e ,b l $ete wo b inar }i ,hdn ig 0gss -voc 5idu 1h si 7wss i o s 0nh la 8lr 2op -f, ,h md o ai iw Ns njt osai n t ekc h mt e i v ecfe u ,n ip ld se da tr Cm is re ap onne it wc oa nt fyl .i iv se ft grs ooo ’ dmn bGS iis e Rh oOe d rtf toto r h$ PP1 w s9 CR.o c9 aom 5 bae jn lp ob , iy 0 ce d-a 8r la0s D5 a0 va - Pg iS4 oo d7 7 ic2 W- iD ,7Y , uJ ra cn nu ep ee ea r ey n, H o be ae is a
‘ s » lr ' oos tt e s n c ho c a e o -s f w a r a t h h 2u h vc s a s C h rh r i r e n t a yu d e n e y h aod gt o aB , n c e l t c a l Pa r a s e
2 6 ¢ 7 6 b b e . a n
September /October 1997
vi
une 20 Number 3
57Feminist Bookstore News
nt for queer marriage with pragmatic ay Growth and Intimacy for Gay Mena,
argume n how to handle Eee , by Christopher J. Alexander — An education nt POOk
ti L ons E O -9, November, Simon C } book for men dealing with family of origin, / selg SeW lfo imr a k.
b" y S Ce hii u Chc i e L aRuit e Bi —g: TS he ex dS rt aa grs -, q uP eo er nn dF ii rel cm ts o, r o of n m o ie ud aa lt ii tyn :g $a 1n 9d . 95 rel pba ,t io 1n -sh 5i 6p 0s 2, 3 -9A 01I -D 8S , a ln atq e l fo as ls l, , a an sd a D« inie e
than 100 all-male erotic films reveals, in a ee - Park Press.
manner, the ins and outs of the business. $12.95 pb, Bisexual Characters in Film: From .
by Wayne M. Bryant — A pioneering Hp a a
-392-6, Alyson.
epee eae A World Guide to Gay & analyzes 80 years of on-screen bi behaviour. $17.95 ch
Lesbian Films by Claire Jackson and Peter Tapp — An 1-56023-894-1, Harrington Park Press, pee
_Gay/Lesbian/Bisexual/Transgender
A-Z look at more than 1,800 movies, shorts and docu- Public
m the an nt ar 4i es oup nr to rid eu sc .e d $29o .v 9e 5r pt bh ,e 0p -as 6t 6-8 30 8y 1e 8a -r 1s i Sn amm uo er le GPo ul ii dc ey tI os su the es : NeA Ci Ct ui lz te un r’ as a Sn td ugA gd lm ei ni bs yt ra Wat lo lr a’ c.
0 c 4 0 , w l r e
French Trade. Swan — A cultural war is being waged against itis
GLBT community, says the author, with the right
and the perversely religious focusing on the Wwork-
place, education, personal relationships and justice
issues. $19.95 pb, 1-56023-916-6, late fall, Harrington
The Complete Voyeur Video Guide edited by Park Press.
Steve Stewart — Hundreds of non-XXX special- *Rough News, Daring Views: 1950s Pioneering
interest videos (health and fitness, fetish, flasher, Gay Journalism by Jim Kepner — The founder of
hidden-camera, how-to) are discovered and dis- L.A.’s International Gay & Lesbian Archives give a
cussed; the male-nude videos make up half the book, he-was-there glimpse at gay life nearly five decades
the female-nude work, the other. $12.95 pb, 1-889138- ago in this stirring selection of essays. $24.95 pb,
05-3, October, Companion Press/SBC, Alamo Square. 1-56023-896-8, late fall, Harrington Park Press.
Hollywood Drag Movie & Video Guide: Drag
Queens & Kings of the Screen by E. Michael Moore KinshO iu pr F bya mi Rl oi be es Ou Gr ssVa lu ae ns d: AS mna yp sh Ao dt as so f SQ qu ue ie rr
r t o m e
— The cross-dressers from more than 1,000 movies Strongheart — From a religious/academic perspec-
a(B nr di gi St yt le veB sa tr ed ro t Sta an ld onM ea r al mo on ngB ra tn hd eo m, Ja ary en e liM sta en ds fi we il td tive comes more strong support for the sanctity of
l ) , h
Js aho nr ut ryr ,e vi Ce ow ms afo nr oe nve ry refi sl sm /. SB$ C12 ,. 95 lapb m, 1- S8 q8 u9 a1 r3 e8 .- 06-1, HS aam re r- is ne gx t onu n Pi ao rn k. P$ r2 e2 s. s.9 5 pb, 1-56023-910-7, late fall,
a p i P A o
h mH o eo r nr r tr o ao rM lr o n f fFs l ei i at l c re km r os fwb hy i hi c eHn ha urt rh nle y ki n nkC M osl . wo s nhBe oet: n m s o nh dpH o ho f tofm bo is — ae x A ru rta ih o fl i ysi itt nt ho gey r y f $& uo nf d .t t a 9h h - 5e e hb d ey e a elG ’. i “ n gY G o aa u e w ct ith atas shn btL L ohi u e v n ki a p n h g y t— s hai tw c Fi aot l prh eot srhH eeI ne V tmh: soe ta il tS t o he h n el af lc- ea xE r pv e i ei m rd pp ie ar en o c nft t ce es o ssT fi r ou H ont I fah V ls ,
t a h e te . 1 8 r s e o r a
Upb n, i ve0 r- s7 i1 t9 y0 -4 P4 r7 e3 ss- .1 , October, St. Martin’s/ Manchester w Hi ad re r inr ga tn og ne Po af r ki nd Pri ev si sd .u als. $14.95 pb, 1-56023904-2,
d
“Reclaiming the Sacred: The Bible in Gay &an
Lesbian Culture edited by Raymond Jean-F ee
Awide array of scholars take back the Bible, on -
ing through a study of history and literature tha a
pb, 0-313-16781-4, Martin’p sa .r ents. $11.95
December, St, h80 o0 md o seb xo uo ak l itis y m to hr ae n th hu e m fa un ne d iesin wi ots u la dt ti lt iu kd e es t he p7e ei e
the world to believe. $29.95 cl, 1-56023097
Harrington Park Press.
San id m onp r &o du Scc he ur s. er.$ 24 cl, 0-684-8418.. “The Social Service Closet: Who's In, ped7 e
t
a and Why by Teresa DeCrescenzo—In this frank @ ected
September/October 1997 sion of the dissonance between true self and p™)
58e sea lf, s the author makes a strong and challenging case for
orientation openness on the part of social service provid-
ers, be they priests or therapists or doctors. $29.95 cl,
0-7890-0331-7, late fall, Harrington Park Press.
*Critique of Patriarchal Wisdom by Arthur
Evans — The author of the classic Witchcraft & the Gay
Counterculture applies a fine mind to the philosophy
underlying the male-centric dominant culture, expos-
ing its flaws and making an important argument for
ts overthrow. $29.95 pb, 0-9645384-1-5, White Crane,
Alamo Square.
*Two Flutes Playing: A Spiritual Journeybook
for Gay Men by Andrew Ramer — Short, strong “Hearing Us Out: Voices from the Gay & Lesbian
essays on how to share love as well as sex, written Community by Roger Sutton — YA novelist M.E. Kerr
with inclusive passion. $12.95 pb, 1-886360-057, introduces this stirring collection of first-person narra-
Alamo Square tives, a must-shelve in the children/ young adult
Same Sex: The Ethics, Science, and Culture of section. $7.95 pb, 0-316-82313-9, Little, Brown.
Homosexuality edited by John Corvino — The likes of The Lover of My Soul: A Search for Ecstasy and
John Boswell, David Halperin, Richard Mohr and Wisdom by Perry Brass — Humor, heat and pathos
George Chauncey discuss such homo-issues (not fill the pages of this collection of brash Brass poetry,
always agreeing with each other) as marriage, religion, the words of a writer who lives passionately. $8.95 pb,
biology and rights. $27.95 cl, 0-8476-8482-2, November, 0-9627123-0-2, Bellhue Press, LPC /InBook.
Rowman & Littlefield, National Book Network. In the Arms of Adam: A Diary of Men by James
*The Queer Question: Essays on Desire & Randall Chumbley — What an effective way to tell a
Democracy by Scott Tucker — From Mr. Leather 1986 life story: through one’s involvement with men.
toa lone voice calling fiercely for queers to re-radicalize Chumbley’s memoir of a man learning that love mat-
themselves: that’s an odyssey which makes this collec- ters most is elegant and insightful. $15.95 pb,
tion of essays vital and pertient. $16 pb, 0-89608-578-3, 0-9638295-7-2, Xanthus Press; 912-234-5698.
October, South End Press, LPC /InBook.
Buggers Talk: A Social History of British Life And that’s a look at maybe one-third of the forth-
1900-1975 by Tom Sargant — Eight gay men of a coming gay male interest titles for the late Summer, Fall
certain age were interviewed for this fascinating look and early Winter of this year: so many possibly good
ata pre-legal gay subculture. $12.95 pb, 1-873741-32-4, books, so little space. Which allows me to segue into
October, Millivres, LPC /InBook. mentioning that a print version of my last two columns
Love Sucks: New York Stories of Love, Hate and (May/June, July/ August) is available: I wrote about so
Anonymous Sex by Ken Shakin — A guided tour to many books that Jenn had to break Spring
0S Ml -ee 8a m 5z oe r 49yc -i t 2y 5, a 4n -r d 9e p Oo f cr i tt c oi t bn i eg o rn , th Ga f at a yct st Mr a ea n nd d ’d sl e fs Pa rn et st a sh s ,e y . li Pn C$e 14 /b . Ie 9 n5t w oe ope kbn ., A c tu hn t n o a pb ru oon suc et ,e m o Ae n n e- Dt iqs fu fa eri rtn eet no r t o Lw f o t hh tep ar e pt n us t, br lie ia s sn . hd R dae tv he iten r lt th 5he an 8n h eea a ed t est o
t i g e al
4 , L B e
Hi e; s nt joW ar mh y ii nt e o f eNi t ihg meh ts SS ha ena n ad F drA as nc —ce in s Acd noi ng oA aI lS D h S ha id so tEw op rs i y: d e fA m rn i c Or ta b hl y b c1 o u6 o s— k tp s oa e mg l ee l e sr .sc ,a t Wa rl t io e tg a e, c he mrw esh ,i c ath l i 4b 8ri 9s a rib Cae ani ssn g oa nm d ea ede o tu t av Ba el e ee h s ee l i
t r
H p r r o m e r
GPaV ro eS al c e n ne l nas l m ao s lf L .e P3 f e I0 C Ir sn/o rfp m I d aoe en e lo rB1 p r m9 ol 6 oe t8 nk diC. a ow t ro ni e t : o1h n9 a9 aR n5A l. e dI cD $S o2 Em2 . m rt 9 Tsr e5 aa nc rne d vp as b ele , d t 0h IAe - c3 G0 —cup 4 a i-t ud7h Tne0 htl1 ei so 2 f n 6 e- tist b2 th ,, le ec h Sa al nl d Se kinf gm ue l t a frt o f ya il 4 s ac@1 s au5 a ye l- d ; ge4 l fn t3 b da1 o ma- fo af r o0 k le 8 s ew9 . h1 mic wm no rntom is ,o r)r e , a af n sna W ix i if dn y ft m y aee o cnr u ' ld oa u t rA p .n l 4 i n e ke o u ea c ec o mp ey n: i ts e, sa
ai c n a P .e o o y o r i i s r e t e r i o o
E a D d r I e
September / October 1997
VOluome 20 Number 3
59Bookstore News
Feminist
FIREBRAND BOOKs
READ MY LIPS WAITING IN THE WiNgg
EVIL DEAD CENTER
Sexual Subversion Portrait of. 4 Queer Mother} ud
A C AM Rys Ot Ler Ey LAFAVOR and the End of Gender CHERRIE MORAGA
Renee LaRoche RIKI ANNE WILCHINS Cherrfe Moraga,
takes to her jeep Riki Anne Wil- the celebrated Chi-
and the investi- chins has written cana lesbian writer,
gative trail once the book. that has crafted a jewel
again in the sec- may take the dis- of a book in Wait-
ond (Along the cussion of gender ing Bs the Wings:
Journey River) over the top. Portraioft a Queer
Native Ameri- This frontal as- Motherhood, This
can lesbian mys- is the story of "one
tery from Carole small human be-
laFavor. ing's struggle for
Aidhot of Akwrg The Juarser Bier © When an survival,” the auth-
ae Indian woman serena: or's two-and-one-
is found dead just off the Red Earth Reser- ature baby boy.
vation, the white coroner rules the Jane Doe ecifics belong to Moraga and
a death by exposure. But an unexpected —her large close-knit biologi-
phone call from Renee's old girlfriend, Cal g-term partner; the child's fa-
Beltrain—her political buddy and lover
during AIM (American Indian Movement)
days—raises questions about the woman's
identity. As Renee and the Red Earth tribal
Transexual N
police run down clues, the murder motive
a new level. I
is exposed: an attempt to cover up a child
raged, in the same brea
pornography ring preying on Ojibwa kids
Executi "Lesbians don’
placed in white foster homes.
ers,” she writes. Ourb
In prose that reveals the traditions, joys,
does taix in this inti
and hardships of daily life on the reserva-
tion, the author explores the often conflict-
ing cultural influences in Renee's world.
narrative she cons reating
ISBN 1-56341-088-5 $11.95 paper ISBN 1-56341-090-7 but of a,
ISBN 1-56341-089-3 $24.95 cloth ISBN 1-56341-091-5
216 pages
288 pages, photog
November
September
——
=
Firebran d 141 The Comn
Books
Available throug
September/October 1997
60 Volore:
FROM OUR OWN PREFe Smini Sst B Eooks Store News
Lh
alan
“==ena,
Compiled by Jenn Tust are the teachers who know that souls are not dead wood, who
kindle them and set a generation ablaze. Amen.
A&M BOOKS Every nation coalesces around its own defining
Sarah Aldridge’s readers will find her new novel story — this story is the escape of the Jews from
Nina in the Wildernessa sharp contrast to Amantha. Its enslavement in Egypt. Traditional Haggadahs have
two heroines are modern young women and their story not, historically, offered much space for women to see
is set against the background of contemporary Wash- themselves as fully involved in or spoken to by this
ington, D.C. Publication of this book marks another step powerful drama of human freedom. For poet Martha
in A&M Books’ progress. We are issuing it in both Shelley, creating this new feminist Haggadah meant
paperback, which will appeal to many readers, and in | opening up that much-needed space for herself, other
cloth, since we realize that there are occasions whena | women and other peoples. “I wanted to write a
hardbound volume is more appropriate. $11.95 pb; $18
cl, same ISBN for both: 0-9646648-3-6. A&M Books, PO
Box 283, Rehoboth Beach DE 19971; 800-489-7662. We
maintain our policy of a 50% discount to independent
bookstores. —A&M Books
ASH TREE PUBLISHING
A City Herbal by Maida Silverman. Herbal medi-
cine in the sidewalk? Yes! Edible, medicinal and useful
plants grow in the city as well as the country. With this
book youcan locate, identify, and learn to use dandelion
and clover as well as some more mysterious plants.
Included are line drawings for identification; botanical,
historical, and magical lore; information on how plants
can be frozen, stored and preserved; and wonderful
recipes. $13.95 pb, 1-888123-00-1, December. Ash Tree
Publishing, PO Box 64, Woodstock NY 12498;
Phone/fax 914-246-8081. Distributed by B&T, BP, New
Leaf, Nutribooks, Weiser’s, Moving Books, Summit
ee International, and Quality Books. In Canada by
ve, Biocosmic, Dempsey. —Ash Tree Publishing
AUNT LUTE BOOKS
Haggadah by Martha Shelley. Blessed are the
p thn e bn ancw hh eo t se ta rr ucf kr ui bt f lr io gm tf no ir ngb id ad ne dn plt are ye s, tw hh o ires .n a Bt lc eh seu dp thp ,a n Haggadah (Aunt Lute Books)
e r s y h w éi f s Photo by Joan Ro
September /October 1997
VOloumen 29 Number3
61Feminist Bookstore News
PRESS*GANG PUBLISHERS
Mae? = form Ufud;
o Over Farly foes
ETIQUETTE PROBLEMS FOR THE ILL-BRED WOMAN
heila Norgate revisits the ancient art of
etiquette for girls in a lively graphic rendition
which will have readers laughing out loud!
ae
Storm Clouds Over Party
BIENS
QUETTE P Shoes is nostalgia with a
WOM
paren ED
_. feminist twist... offering up a
== brilliant combination of retro
3 ee el =
ere :
images and the doctrine of
ie # Sheila Norgate
“good breeding” taken straight
from etiquette primers of
the '30s through the ‘50s.
A great gift book featuring 30 full-color illustrations.
Contact us for free 11 x 17 posters! brains
~Msn't be
0-88974-080-1 paper $13.95 US / $18.95 Cdn
i OVident.
STILL
RAISING
HELL
Poverty,
Activism
& Other True Stories
by Sheila Baxter
7° a world of “experts”
and °
voices of poor working
62a Ne E W-BOOKS for FATE ___ Feminis( t BoB okstoe re N ews
from Persimmon Blackbridge
PROZAC HIGHWAY
am is having a hard time walking to the corner store
because she's so depressed, but her life on the Internet
is one delirious ride. Prozac Highway is a rollicking novel
about Internet romance, pharmaceutical remedies for life,
and aging rebelliously—a cyberlit journey with Jam and her
far-flung family that is both as real and virtual as it gets!
0-88974-078-X paper $14.95 US / $18.95 Cdn
= +» New Paperback Edition! New Cover!
“It is a fascinating visual, literary and conceptual experience.”
— The Bloomsbury Review
“A poignant first novel. . ."—The Hungry Mind Review
"Post-modern storytelling at its best... The reader goes ona
True Story journey that is both poignant and potent, real and imagined.
with Lies Who could ask for more?"—Lambda Book Report
1997 Lambda Literary Award Finalist!
0-88974-060-7 paper $15.95 US / $18.95 Cdn — 0-88974-068-2 hardcover $21.95 US / $23.95 Cdn
Distributed in the US by LPC Group/InBook, in Canada by General
We're on the Web/ www.pressgang.bc.ca
PRESS GANG PUBLISHERS
ee ‘Sawwsy1A6°! T.
tel:coasat p1e7t h Avenue Vancouver, BC CANADA postal.c2 pi oe
— aE 76-7.787 fax:604/676-7892 email: pean gpub
Volume 20 Number 3 Lis Kees. SENBAB. September /October 1997
63Fe —cS 1sH im eo -Mai nl 8an g sl 7ei reg a 9 s b t 9a ot 6e hd or 0 aa fa - h tB 5 e 3 to s -h So - e 2t hk o a ,h ewns a n lit e dd lt t Oi e o h cv ya t r .i tad h nle oPad s e b ht o .r 2 e s a 0e rN ras .e f as A bow e e n A&htas ds hk . w e u s C n w AtAd a oo f a pm Lr H h 9H uo k 4oa au t 1n te gr eg 1n e o g 0, gs g :o as Ba r p oda d ap on a 4par i kd 1hn hhe s 5s s , -os .n 8u w!o 2r 2tit 6 h 1to $a -8hs to 1n 10 o 1n 3 a u .l a 0l n 9y s B 0s 5 iGd r , na y oJ gi ate u s p fh a nw . b ar a tn- ” , xt || | a5rsG 1fp i vee 46r o r acc 2 1re r l iet 7m -.s m lii . se 7s vo a n 5 en bt 3 ltt T Cs - ehh ph t a 9e e i hr l 3esa o fy 8 b n v rxa 4 ri os ,iba e i d mA s vs ism i Bu ni e f Aoef g as w r o o xr mh k aaa saM t dl , 5tt ial s t 4e lro e 1o n lv g n -tf B oe a t 7i o ,e ir o 5x oae n 3s nhtt - o I u 0fr B nto 5c ,Wy r gh 1. i a e r 5l . yb C al . o oe mA o ry d k y’ ei Css at s Pv l eAee rlrf Tae h jji y Scn an et a 3a 9e p 9r 0 O ’ .a0 R Js 5k oc 0“ utf , ii Ts 9r s ea t2 0 v 1 i ea j wo v ;b e |. |
4St 1r 5e -e 8t 6# -2 80 36, 0.S an vaF ir la an bc li es co Consortium. Small Changes, and SPD. 7 fe) cals,
2 0 A f rom BP, SPD,
—Aunt Lute Books
CHA TR heD O neN eP xR pE anS dS
GIy
w e d editio
Homephaba educa |
organizing tool,
tional and
CALYX A of Sexism by Suzanne Pharr, includes an informal
ative
CALYX: A Journal of Art and Literature by Women | afterword discussi fas 1
released Volume 17:2, the 50" issue of this prize- LGBT ees See ee ee yi the
—
a‘ta oie mr e=a onSepete mber. oTeh is inicslsuudee sa ls ao r t,c e pl he obr ta ot ge -s || bt iin bu le id o grm ao pv he ym e on f t s ugt go ew sa tr ed d l ri eb ae dr ino g s oc n a oe n die a ° F — — .
aO e ipel d aomna in .d d se aw el ei fe)n ‘g S horw t i fr ict ion Se at nh d B pr oo en tt re y || 5 p1 ol7 it5 ic2 s,. 0 pr5 o. gr esa sv iva el ib al ne al ysf ir so ,m rae ce,m at nd tha e Ri ne at |
=
——y
on ee at the birth of her sak Sonera ae peee a : = ey fay
—
—
.Saloma Miller, in “Sarah’s Courtship,” * oe d * _
—Chardon Press —
dled by Nancy Man
PPFOx. 300 pp, 50 b/w phot
world ere
rking and playing Wis se and found strong women
Madw om an Press, Inc, Eee Northboro, MA 01532-0690
ax: (508) 393-8305
Se Ptember/ e e F : - 5
October
1997
Ss
64 Volume 20 Numbet
aCHICORY BLUE PRESS , between lesbians and thei
“T have wanted
We have two new poetry chapbooks in our series to find my moth : Pst mothers,
i ‘ve ever loved,”
by wo Inm te rn ic atp ea st M os vix et sy. : Poems About Rape by Joan w Lr ai bte es s tR Oe iid i e in da el mai is no n, uc tiW one .m en I haI v e ached to find
asw ci cf ut r. a cyT ,h is u nfs oe lr di ses a o cf omp po le em xs , stoo rf y t th he ath si tg ah re ts et d 2a 5r t yea an rd s | c for ra td yl e bet fh oe r eb ac I k c ouo lf d “5 4 Fs Feto n hy e r i se o ngsr .a y I hs at die tg o yo tu url n
ago with a brutal rape. Writing poetry was the only ledge how often a eta thas 1D myself or acknow-
sw ea qy u enof t u mn ud re dr es rt an ofd i an ng o thm ey r r wa op me a na .n .d . . th Te her ap pi ost e’ ms s su ab r- e p ce oo mp pl le i caa tr eo du nd fo r me e. v” e ryoR ne e,a do bun t to sr l aa e motE hep rs h a re
not only for those who like poetry but for all other relationship is especiall owe nF Apo yelos
victims of rape. They’re for my rapist, too.” Poet | dened) with a multi ici : f ca clipes paces
Sandy McPherson says, “Swift shows how the atroci- $16.95 pb, 1-57344-030-2 dileabeliepiiniaicon dusts
ties indwell her life years after the fact, 7 informing g h her PoMoSexual: Challenging A i
quest for eae — and good in her daily Gender and Sexuality CC Oa
consciousness.” pb, 1-887344-02-0. Lawrence Schimel ( preface by Kate Bornstein) i
In Stolen Moments Nellie Wong’s exuberant nonfiction follow-up to anh Hitters: Se te
poems reveal the working life of a woman, the pleas- Gay Male Erotica and Gay Men Write Lesbian Erotica
ure she takes in food, music and movies, her roots in PoMoSexual dishes up an all-star cast of articulat
Chinese American culture and her deep commitment and witty gay, lesbian, bisexual and trans Sem
to justice everywhere. They move energetically and | authors—all of whom want to explode oe -
Beecifconsciously between the personal and political. tions about sexuality: Pat Califia, Dorothy ATR
Ima revolutionary feminist who works, writes and | Laura Antoniou, Jill Nagle, Ricki Anne Wilchins,
organizes in the movements for radical social Michael Thomas Ford, Scott O’Hara, Marco Vassi
change.” Nellie Wong is author of The Death of Long Carol Queen, John Weir, D. Travers Scott, and Greta
Steam Lady. $10 pb, 1-887344-03-9. Christina. $14.95 pb, 1-57344-074-4.
C Se direct from publisher, 795 East Street North, Cleis is proud of its big, glitzy, gorgeous Fall
oshen CT 06756; 860-491-2271, fax 860-491-8619. coffee table crossover title, Vamps: An Illustrated
—Chicory Blue Press History of the Femme Fatale by lesbian vampirolo-
gist Pam Keesey (Daughters of Darkness). In stores for
H poa pl ul lo aw re en f, V ia cm op nss —f ea Jt ou ar ne s ro av we fr r1 d0 ,0 p Fah yo et o Dg ur nap ah ws a y,of
SYA il m C o
aOHaeHC tnd uaL ehli igv eE t i nhie re nsI em sd iO eS s e,u E , r v b Y —BeP a AR izl h T E L e nE u vuaa s gco edS d t eo lr r r hS v i ye ye ae f lr d Pit ii t : r WLn cnl a A oe ee t o n r t- L mmz ,duef R a pep ao s e l , r lb i n ad edi o nu xfF a C di a hn a a Il l e nl ,e r H d S lW s r a h or b i1 va oH Mii9 e e kyaot a9 n le7 r lr M i Es y aYola tv i or yus e I uano t rg tn g n h E l o a gev eLrs ,T b e H oi sh ar la v e cy rs oJ ei k. e— oor d e la d rW aF n , tM e o D p iao o rm N a ott er ea nu H mh so s sr on eoe tt hi l nl nr h in l tes gyg py s, I | | | vhM K s bwt s aee e a eha e nhxa ne em cr ho td ss ip al se, e a ei ve s y nr i n s, twe o rMe ta i, reoa w vp e g“ m e D eA oti ea tl t die o ohl nW p nt dua e o g r t t essi nb s satc aa i. t s, ih rq id d” ee, mu s e s fi a a y n s gC n g F t ei ea d tr ar e e h t stl o ns n eh h s m dso e e t e i or a rh rnc fsi Ge e w ta rn r an ii wccs ee l ta a, rt m o cl r ea t hmnD a re eate ea ov se lG uc fn v ne a e rie n el ru a d t sb ot ev c aohB swe see c io t, i ot rf her tt e pm e oy ?p r gaT r eo tSa vn e drBl h sa ai a ol |a tg t mou r i A o pl p w on raa . P sh ns sh e p Oo , mrW S itB Oer o ft na i n aou in t Rns i etk ne e Eeh e- es ,s Ee the
t e s h o h
September/ October 1997
=
Vumoe 20 Number -Feminist Bookstore News
sidebars — statistics, excerpts of erotic sto
ries, ang |
CALYX, A Journal of Art and Literature by Women colorful narratives illustrating sexual techni
niques: Oe
all women. Bibliography, videography,
publishing provocative work by women for twenty-one years
pb, 1-57344-028-0, November.
Order the next issue today! Cleis Press, PO Box 1484, San Francisco CA 9434)
415-575-4700, fax 415-575-4705. Cleis Press books
Incredibly fine, full, and distributed to the trade by PGW and are also ayay
from BP, Ingram, Koen, Bookazine, B&T and 0
varied... From here will
wholesalers. Best discounts are available from Pi
come our literary heritage.
Very important! PGW frontlist orders ship from ware.
—John Berry, editor-in-chief,
houses in both Hayward, CA and Lebanon, PA,
Library Journal
—Cleis P
CALYX holds a special place
DAMRON
in my heart. Some of my
The only map guide just for gay and lesbiay
very first published words—
travelers, the Damron Road Atlas, 6th Edition, fe
two poems—were published in CALYX years ago.
tures over 150 full-color maps and 6,000 listin:
—Barbara Kingsolver covering 65 North American and European ci
including Amsterdam, London, Paris and Berl
Single issue price: $9.50 © ISSN: 0147-1627
Color-coded dots make it easy to locate lesbian
CALYX Journal is available to the trade from: Armadillo, Ingram Periodicals,
gay bars, accommodations, restaurants, bookst
Koen, Small Changes, and Small Press Distribution or directly from CALYX
541/753-9384, FAX: 753-0515 and more. Concise city overviews provide essen
travel information at a glance. The Damron Road |
CALYX, Inc. © PO Box B ® Corvallis, OR 97339-0539 Atlas is the ideal guide for the urban traveler on
schedule. $15.95, 0-929435-24-9. Damron Compan?
silver screen. Keesey’s fascinating cultural history is PO Box 422458, San Francisco CA 94142-2458; 800- |
punctuated by excerpts of interviews with film stars 462-6654, 415-255-0404. Available through PDC;
and critics. This book is a must-buy for vampire
800-464-4574. —Damron
lovers and movie fans who treasure images of
SVT
women as powerful, sexual beings. $21.95 pb,
1-57344-026-4, October.
Also in stores for Halloween, Brothers of the DAUGHTERS OF THE MOON PUBLISHING ~
Night: Gay Vampire Stories edited by Michael Rowe Daughters of the Moon Tarot Deck, by Ffiona
and Thomas Roche is the sequel to Lambda Literary Morgan. “A journey through multicultural Goddess —
Award Nominee Sons of Darkness: Tales of Men, Blood herstory. Visually a joy, she reminds us to remember
and Immortality, also edited by Rowe and Roche. our proud Goddess heritage and take our wisdom
$14.95 pb, 1-57344-025-6, October. and strength from it.” —Z Budapest. “Truly captures
User-friendly, sexy, honest and fun, The Ultimate the feminist spirit.” —Merlin Stone. With Goddess
Guide to Anal Sex for Women by Tristan Taormino is and female cross-cultural archetypes, the five-inch
the first self-help manual specifically for women on circular cards reflect a holistic approach, envisioning
anal sex. Many women are intrigued by the idea of cycles of energy. A beautiful wimmon’s deck in
exploring anal eroticism, but may be uncertain how to vibrant color. $26.95, 1880130-04-1.
proceed or hesitant to discuss anal sex with their Daughters of the Moon Tarot Interpretive Book
partners. This attractive, upbeat guide covers anat- by Ffiona Morgan. Frustrated with patriarchal tarot
omy, taboos and myths, fantasy, gender bending, and interpretations? Written to accompany Ffiona’s Tarot
power play; latex, lube and toys; relaxation exercises deck, these interpretations reflect Goddess and
and penetration; and anal health. Accurate how-to womyn-identified spirituality, including cultures
advice is combined with interesting, eye-catching from around the world. Envisioning a woman’s
September/October 1997
66
Volume 20 Number 3=
Feminist
Bookstore
News
community celebrating diversity, compassion and
wisdom. Each suit of Ffiona’s tarot correspond to The
Five Directions of the Wiccan Tradition, as well as the
families. “A Passionate,
Astrological elements. The definitive Feminist Dianic
sin’s power asa
Tarot interpretation. $9.95, 1880130-01-7. . In the same sen-
Mysteries of the Goddess by Ffiona Morgan. tence she brings us beau
ty, humor, tragedy.”—Sara
Invaluable information on Feminist Astrology prac- Paretsky. Now available in paperback. $13.95 pb,
tice and insights, with Ffiona’s personal stories 1-55861-176-2.
concerning spiritual aspects of each sun sign; Dorothy Bryant's Miss Giardino, a subtle, lyrical
Wimmon’s Tarot and Astrological Correspondences; | and moving novel of a teacher’s inner life, is ies
Crystals and Healing; Chakras; Self-Healing; Releas- | by her fans and is sure to win her new eadetaalte
ing Addictions and Dreams. “An excellent overview heroine, Anna Giardino, is a retired teacher who rane
of astrology, tarot, rituals, [and] sacred ways of the | regain her memory after having been found lying
year...an excellent handbook for familiarity with the | unconscious in front of the school where she taught
crafts of witches.” —Alice Molloy, Mama Bears. $13 for 40 years. She recalls her difficult childhood as
pb, 1880130-37-8. daughter to Italian American immigrants, her longing
Goddess Spirituality Book by Ffiona Morgan. for escape, and her mission to become a teacher. “[A]
Introduction to the practice of Dianic Wicce: including | fresh and engaging novel.... The author interposes
tools of Magic, Wheel of the Year, Purification, Casting | sharply observed nuances of personality and a leav-
the Circle, Raising the Cone of Power, Chanting, | ening pinch of irony.” —New York Times Book Review.
Lunar Magic, and Specific Rituals (from Releasing a $11.95 pb, 1-55861-174-6; $32 cl, -180-0.
Relationship to Birthdays and Prosperity!) “A golden Ella Price’s Journal by Dorothy Bryant. At the
treasure chest filled with jewels of wimmin’s lore, | age of 35, Ella Price is a successful housewife and
wisdom and Mysteries...a clearly written, precise, mother, but a discontented woman. She decides to
no-nonsense ‘how-to’ book superb for both the begin- attend college for the first time, and her journey to
ner and the seasoned witch.” —Susan Mermaid. $13 | self-discovery emerges in the journal she keeps for
English class. The exposure to a new world of books
pb, 1880130-06-8.
Daughters of the Moon Publishing, 9164 Mill and ideas leaves her irrevocably iste and i
Station Road, Sebastopol CA 95472; phone/fax 707- | must make painful but empowering © aon
8 P2 oo9 k- s5 ,2 48 S. muA ev la il Wa eb il se from BP —, aN uge hw erL se af, tM heo v Mi on og | ea Tou t mth erge en mt Hei elc ll di at ee sr aa yetr saoy ihr Be yn d e tnr ei n tg eeo f oa uw boo om aa dn ' ts ees i rr tu g aDas
a e r D t of n | t ix si -v e ry v o i c p p l “ne gr , he e e l d o q u mf o nr t g r o rw et k h . , T ei h b s: a
: a , i y h f i
CF \ pages, Dorothy Bryant's novel about a aes
PRESZ R discovers herself Fe coke its grip. 79 PD,
THE FEMINIST S
i_ n ChI iN lA e Cr ao ws as r da -n wd ina nS it nar g: M ae um to hoi rr s Maof r ja o rJ ie ew is Ah g oG si ir nl 1-558 A6 1- p1 i7 o5 n- e4 e; r $3 i5 G ae “ldm i ed sd tl ae b- lc il sa hs es d wr oe mt eur nn ’- st o- caw ro er ek r
sek oe oe ee sp ed programs to help women
Beier a
en
—cf Oa —l yl1 y — i in sn R ci rS eed,T i“ EnRnP osvG atE ivv:o el eim[ oenb m ou t ii rs f e drt ae wa s oa na thyo e r iicc h S o n e w ona en s — or juggle— an td h e p dr eo mfe as ns d pi rso er n ba a lof cg /aor Oae nles ar b eroan S 1 97
67
lume 20 Number 3Pe ews
Feminist Bookstore N' family. Juggling: A Memoir of Work, F
i ESS inism is both an historical ac ami ly, and
tt ta p:k e y wa w ws .p si pn inw ii fth e xpS rP eI sN s.I cF oE mX . aud /i ~e wom en n achi iee ve menm to s.v em Ge oun lt d a wn ad s a ond eo t oa f a tt he e in foe u no dn ee r s enann §
hittp- first permanent director of the Barnard the
Fall releases - - - . f X Center. In recounting a life which both paralleled.
New fiction from Spinire propelled a critical struggle in the women’s me
ment, Gould’s memoir, Juggling, documents th
Imago development of important ideas and social transaid
mations. $17.95 pb, 1-55861-173-8. is
by Francesca Rendle-Short
Mulberry and Peach: Two Women of China}
A migration story filled with Hualing Nieh. In her first fiction to be published inthe
love and obsession. U.S., the director of the University of lowa’s Interna.
This award winning author tional Writing Program presents an extraordina
_, . writes with poetic ease story of two women — who are really one. Mulber
and a sensual language is a young Chinese American woman who has fled the
turmoil of postwar China to settle in the U.S. Unable
ISBN 1-875559-36-1 $13.95 paper
to forget the terrors she has witnessed or resolve the
. conflicts between her new and old lives, she copes by
The Ballad of Siddy Church developing a second personality: the fearless, tough-
CHES BAAD by Lin Van Hek talking, sexually uninhibited Peach. The narrative
SIDDY CHURCH
offers provocative parallels between American
| was a child with many
history and the tumultuous events in recent Chinese
aunties. The; hotel was history. Publishers Weekly calls it “perceptive and
feeming with them powerful.” $12.95 pb, 1-55861-182-7; $32 cl, -183-5.
Filled with larger-than life,
strong, wilful & unconvent- lal:
ional women. G; LIES
ISBN 1-875559-61-2 $13.95 paper Defiant Muse: Dutch and Feminist Poetry from
the Middle Ages to the Present edited and with an
The Journey Home introduction by Maaike Meijer. This bilingual anthol-
by Cathie Dunsford ogy of 100 poems by 50 women poets writing in Dutch
and Flemish is the long-awaited new volume in the
.. . this wide-ranging novel groundbreaking Defiant Muse series. Included in this
takes readers on a collection are poems by Hadewych, undeniably the
MAMIE SRC eo re greatest Dutch poet of the 13th century, whose ie
ical experienc’
- Nisa Donnelly about love are rooted in deep mystical exp
An irreverent and funny book. and work by the 16th-century poet Anna hie
ISBN 1-875559-54-X $13.95 paper sfi er xst u alw o dm ea sin re . in C oD nu tt ec mh pol ri ate rr yar y poh ei ts st or ry a ngt eo w fa rl ome s d ea
Look i n o tu ht e f nor e xtW o im se sun e' s o f C Fi er c mu is n; i stL ea Bp oi on kg s toO rf ef t Nhe e wE sd ge ND fou ert wmc sh Saop f vo ae h gt e e r s L ”o n e as t l i eavN de eo rb ,e I l n, Ed l o ln yw e sh dio ea , W d ar t aoa r w dps ,o etu wr rp y io tn e a r hi 0h e P ert lhe
SPINIFEX NY Office: 1; id tly lesbian poetry. The volume presents poems aeth e
Tel 71 aie ee Karlsberg original language, with exquisite, new English
Distributed in USA & cx ax 718-980-4262 lations. $17.95 pb, 1-55861-152-5. vet, NY
Chicago Te! 800-626-4330 y LPC (Inbook) Feminist Press at CUNY, 311 East 94th street,
ax 800-334-3892 NY 10128; 212-360-5790. Distributed by Consort m
September/October 1997
3
68 Volume 20 NumbFeminist Bookstore News
————
in the U.S. and Canada, and in the U.K., Europe and HERSTAR
Scandinavia by Gazelle Book Services, Falcon House, Herstar Invocation One — the first feminist astro-
Queen Square, Lancaster, LA1 1RN London. logical symposium records a sacred circle cast in
—Feminist Press November, 1996. Members of the circle invoked
[Note: Miss Giardino, Ella Price’s Journal, and Mul- greater professional attention to and understanding
berry and Peach are reissues of previously-loved books. ] of the relationship between the entire feminist tradition
and astrology. First distributed as Jupiter conjoined
GYNERGY BOOKS/RAGWEED PRESS Uranus in February, 1997, at the Cycles and Symbols
This fall we are excited to be publishing a feminist astrological conference in San Francisco, this booklet
collection on mothering teens which provides encour- | now takes its place in the long line of feminist works
agement and support to all who accompany teenagers classified in library collections as ephemera (Greek:
| on their journey to adulthood. Mothering Teens: lasting for a day). As printed “recordings” of women’s
| Understanding the Adolescent Years, edited by teen | largely oral culture, ephemera allow our juicy, grass-
clinic pediatrician Miriam Kaufman (a contributor to | roots thoughts to hit the page. Herstar Invocation One
Lesbian Parenting: Living with Pride and Prejudice), is an is “a lovely, heart-felt, and eye-opening book. The
indispensable collection of 19 articles covering a wide essays are delightful. It is chock full of both: personal
range of topics, including adolescent development, experience and astrological wisdoms — you'll find all
sexuality and sexual orientation, body image, spiritu- kinds of revelations.” —Kim Rogers-Gallagher,
ality, activism and mothering a teen mother. This book KOSMOS (Newletter of the International Society for
examines factors that confront adolescents in their Astrological Research). 44 pgs, saddle-stitched. 50%
daily lives — issues of race, class, addiction, divorce | for 5+, prepayment. $13. Herstar, PO Box cae
and death as well as academic performance and teen | Berkeley CA 94712; 510-597-1246, email ss .
culture. $16.96 pb, 0-921881-46-0. herstar.com). ers
A first for gynergy books: Beginning this year Sa):
we are publishing a women’s daybook Bee ME
Portraits, a practical yet beautiful organizer w ic
profiles women who make activism a part of their | LAUGH LINES secs llection, Rina’s Big Book
daily lives. Documentary photographer Nancy Ipshen thizd cartoen a ' 4 t RinakPiccalo
Ackerman, writer Donna Nebenzahl, and designer | of Sex Cartoons, Canadian car hy as La
Louise Vincent have teamed up to create a daybook | tackles the topic ¥ pee a a ted. folenew
that offers inspirational quotes, monthly calendars funniest book yet. Every ss Be on ee nay
and week-at-a-glance spreads, moon phases, dates about fake eee Seem Gon any Dr. Ruth ona
to remember and much more. $13.95 pb; 0-0a4g8t- ene SPATS See fon pourtelé why Blue-
47-9. This title is available in the U.S. through GDS; era says “Rina Piccolo gives good
sie 2083: 2023 cartoon!” Rina’s cartoons appear often in Ms., Glam-
, PO Box G ; . ther magazines
een De rates 902-566-5750, | our, The Funny Times 2 les ae Back, I Think I'm
fax 902-566-4473 anil (gb@gynergy.com). Distrib- | and books. Her first two /
a
a B ya &y 69 September /October 1997
Volume 20 Number 3kstore News
Feminist Boo
Bookstore) are al so available from Laugh Lines Press. pp ul ba ly ie sd h fo tr h isl esb ai na tn hs o. loM ga y dw eo dim ta edn BP yres es j s deli; ghted to
$8.95, 1-889594-02-4L , Octt oo ber. o t rarer By nee (co-editor of Lesbian Nuns). Thirty eae Ma "
: t
The Joy of Soy: Vege (sa iest) collection FBN‘s Carol Seajay] talk about their ex a linclug: :
ibLvoL nf ee ee lg h th v oe hmm e ewt k k g a uu e Pr wht hh i h ia lal ler n ,, ai rs da e en t la w h pl hhe i hec ok a e w r d o ot — e Ior d s no r . qnl a a sd in w’ , V rys s ea o rnnp ,f ci eo etr ,ks h ’ t e e hs is e r x c Pp af hl eu r ia tn t lhi o ain c o da s a ent l ls pi m he h ia aaa lt i vn- eee D) t aa iat lp e ypr es Ne a er wea e si s : 0BIig t 2ne r’ -st 8o tt .whi e f nn u Mg wn e o anxt ry deh , tce hi ur o.t pi mof vi ai Ier g ns nnt d a esu xnB i ,t Pr t r,o e w 5s s0 n ,hi o b oe f p & Ie nwt f cu h .uen l i P.f G h io o Or tr ] F om o s BS .r oc t w xoo u a $t r 1i 68s d 9op 9r 5ee N1T a E s t V ;C atf er e ioo r nm g ,
, w e s , P 9
i a u t e
and the Humanist, and are featured online in “The MA 01532; 508-393-3447, 508-393-3395 Po
Cartoon Academy.” $8.95, 1-889594-03-2, October. (Dbenison@compuserve.com).
Complimentary bookseller copies of new Laugh
Lines titles are available upon request to FBN readers.
Email your name and bookstore address to: (Roz
Warren@aol.com) or write us at: Laugh Lines Press, NAIAD PRESS
PO Box 259, Bala Cynwyd PA19004. Available from BP. Lisa Shapiro’s Sea to Shining Sea is an emotion.
—Laugh Lines Press ally charged romance/mystery from the Critical]
acclaimed author of The Color of Winter. While trying
MADWOMAN PRESS to outwit a ruthless killer, two strong-willed cored
On My Honor: Lesbians Reflect on Their Scout- — an FBI agent unable to escape the pain of the past
ing Experience is a groundbreaking book. It’s the first and a crime victim with no hope for the future —
time anyone has looked at what lesbians have contrib- struggle to resist their raging passion for each other
uted to the Girl Scouts, or the role that Scouting has $11.95 pb, 1-56280-177-5, October.
In a daring departure from the standard lesbian
mystery, exciting newcomer Therese Szymanski
explodes the genre with a brilliant crime noveloflove,
deception and revenge. Filled with raw eroticism and
heart-pounding suspense, When the Dancing Stops
introduces tough, broad-shouldered anti-heroine
Brett Higgins — lieutenant to the owner of a chainof
strip clubs and adult bookstores — and the women
who love her. $11.95 pb, 1-56280-186-4, October.
Kate Calloway’s popular Cassidy James my
tery series (First I mpressions and Second Fiddle)
continues with a riveting Third Degree. Someoné -
Systematically terrorizing the women of Ct
Hills. But with the victims too frightened to help a
i ae the how will PI. Cassidy James be able to stop _
I f asa pUeecnttilvees if : ni ge ln yd ? beT ao u tic f: o um l pl ai nc da t ne o tom ra it :o t ue srs l, y uC na fs as ii tid hthy ffu' ul s l exa o 1n 5 back
i 4 nted in two languages; in town — with only one thing on her mine
— w— — — re_ c_ ivn es lisahnd esp ban eish pb, 1 H- a5 v6 e2 80 w- e1 85 g- o6 t, O tc rt eo ab er f. X-Fil’ oL nau gra
I | i sh to e n nls tS a t or your e s fa
I the new LOLA! c/o CAFRA = Adams’ contemporary sci-fi thriller Nigh and
Ps: : Tee Pt On i begins with lesbians around the country
eae Ss 7 US$) Ae Hrs S | nightmares. Every night. All night. Both pa meas
Sep tember/October 1997= = = —oe l —tl —_ wpe or mp ale nx in cg a, lit nh ge on ui gh fot rm a hr ee ls oa nr le a tl ow a dy ies hi oe ea as the
| l t p y m y j
70 ne 29 NumiFeminist Bookstore
News
”
i
aaa
i
i
ey yater a us tt ar ug, A dams is the closely guarded pseudo- iBo ey e4 ( e$29. )95), Cha Si un mR rea :c ti To hn ($ F2 i9 r. st9 5) T, imM ea d ($3A 9b .o 95u )t
m e e
,
4-5628o 0f -1a 8 2f -a 1,m ou Ns o vel mes bb ei ra .n romance writer. $11.95 pb, uy Legal ($29.95), College Boys ($29.95), Czech
Naiad is proud to announce the long-awaited M ($a 2t 9i .9n 5g ) . ( A$ ll2 9. a9 r5 e) , c urE ru er no ts l y ( a$ v2 a9 i. l9 a5 b) l, e a on r d wila l ve ber by Bo ly ats e
release of Chain Letter, the ninth installment in the summer/early fall. Snow Balls ($29.95), Sunshine
b tie vs et se Il nl si pn eg tm oy st Ce ar ry ser Ai ses tof ne .a tur Wi en g gA uu as rt ar na tl ei ea n tD he att ec i- A ($f 2t 9e .r 5t )h e wiR lla in ( a$ v29 a. i9 l5 a) b, an sd onV .u lcan: Boys of Summer
c r o l h n 9 b e l e o
addition to flying off your shelves, Chain Letter will For women we have Born in Flames, the very
increase demand for Claire McNab’s other Naiad early and still excellent lesbian fantasy film, ($29.95);
thrillers: Inner Circle, Lessons in Murder, Fatal Reunion, Celluloid Closet at the lower price of $19.95, Hercu-
et al. $11.95 pb, 1-56280-181-3, November. les and the Amazon Women starring Lucy Lawless,
Building on the success of The Erotic Naiad, The Xena herself ($18.95 SRP + big discounts); Honey,
Romantic Naiad, The Mysterious Naiad, The First Time Pass That Around (Comedian Georgia Ragsdale),
Ever and Dancing in the Dark, Lady Be Good is an the second in the highly successful queens of com-
intimate collection of erotic short stories by everyone’s edy series, ($19.95); Lea Delaria the Queen of
favorite Naiad authors including Karin Kallmaker, Comedy, also featuring Amy Boyd and Maggie
Jackie Calhoun, Diana Simmonds and Barbara Cassella, ($29.95, 75 minutes); Live Nude Girls,
Johnson. And when it comes to writing hot lesbian despite the title it’s funny ($19.95); and the three
love stories, these ladies aren't just good — they’re the “Out There” comedy tapes at $12.95 each, a new low
best! $14.95 pb, 1-56280-180-5, November. price. Wild Side at $19.95 is suddenly popular
Naiad books are available from the publisher and because of the sex scenes with Joyce Chen and Anne
distributed by BP, LPC/InBook, Ingram, et al. The Heche, (Ellen’s girlfriend). Antonia’s Line has been
Naiad Press, PO Box 10543, Tallahassee FL 32302; previously announced and is now available ($19.95).
850-539-5965. —Naiad Press
NAIAD VIDEO
___ Due to bookstore demand including, surpris- Our pride and joy is Around the World the
ingly, a great many of the women’s stores, Naiad Press Lesbian Way ($29.95), street date August 12, 1997.
has begun distributing gay male videos. This 80-minute compilation of five international films
Our new men’s line includes: Breaking the of excellent and very lesbian quality, features two big
Surface, the Greg Louganis story with scenes not stars. In This Marching Girl Thing, Toni Collette
| shown in the early release of this film...including the (Muriel’s Wedding) stars, and in Dancing, the noted
Kissing scenes, ($49.95); It’s My Party, a final party in British actress Sylvia Sims recalls a long ago romantic
Brand style, ($19.95); Lie Down With Dogs, a delight- love affair. The other three films Casting (an edgy
film set in Provincetown, ($19.95); Maurice, classic erotic German film) , Go Girl (Swiss) and the Canadian
| ae. male film with a very low SRP and high bookstore spoof, A Day in the Life of a Bu Il Dyke, round out the
| 5. ants, ($14.95); and Parting Glances, a special and five quality films. om Naiad. The Naiad
| rt ie arc e om ae ld sy o r so tm oa cn kc ie n g for M og may e nm te sn, w($ i2 t9 h. 95) J. o han Press,V . Pdi Os c. BoO xr de 1r 0 543d ,i rec Tt a llfr a hassee FL e32e30 2; i850 -
1 75), Boy ($29.95), Boy 2 ($29.95), Boy 3 ($29.95), 539-5965.
September / October 1997
71/
Feminist Bookst0%r e Ne —w —s —— us how far we’ve come, both personally ang oo
cally. Sarah started this novel 30 years Pole
decided to publish it now because “] know and
group of fans out there who would like to rea d a a
thing personal and whom I can trust.” $12.90
0-934678-85-5. 78,
Murder in the Castro, A Lou Spencer Mystery p
ALDRIDGE Elaine Beale. This is a dynamic mystery in whj y
H
backlash of hate crimes and homophobia TEATS its
sires IT AGAINE ugly head in, of all places, San Francisco’s Castro
district. We published it because mysteries sel] well
the setting is popular, and it examines Power and
i iter, Sarah Aldridge hits us with her politics in the lesbian/gay community. $10.95
BE ea The Wilderness, now available in 0-934678-87-1. ‘
hard cover and soft cover. Twist of Lime, ALynn Evans Mystery by Claudia
Nina in the Wilderness (Hard cover) McKay. We enjoyed the jungle setting (Belize) and the
ISBN: 0-9646648-4-4 ........ccescceesenseesersereee $18 complexity of a plot full of twists and turns, drug.
Nina in the Wilderness (Soft cover)
running, poisonous snakes and ancient Mayan arti.
ISBN: 0-9646648-3-6 ..........:ccseeerseeeereeeneees $11.95
facts. This is the second in the Lynn Evans mystery
Amantha
ISBN: 0-9646648-0-1 ...........cccseeeteeseeeeeeeene $10.95 series, featuring a newspaper reporter who (like us)
Magdalena likes to travel. $10.95, 0-934678-88-X.
ISBN: 0-9646648-1-X .......c::eeccessessceereeeeeees $9.95 Barbie Unbound: The Unauthorized Guide to
Misfortune’s Friend Unorthodox Play With Any Generic 11%" Doll by
ISBN: 0-9646648-2-8 ...........ccsesccseseesesseeeeees $8.95
Sarah Strohmeyer is a very amusing satire —with over
Other great books by Sarah Aldridge:
Michaela All True Lovers 30 photos — liberating Barbie from her pink plastic
A Flight of Angels Cytherea’s Breath world to assume roles that real women have endured
Keep To Me Stranger Tottie for years. It places Barbie in historical settings (ie,
Madame Aurora The Latecomer
Barbie Stein and Midge B. Toklas) and present-day
The Nesting Place
roles (i.e., Hot Flash Barbie). We like it because it is
A&M Books
funny and it debunks an American cultural icon. It’s
P.O. Box 283, Rehoboth Beach, DE 19971
amazing how many women have an emotional con-
Phone: 1-800-489-7662
nection to Barbie! $12.95, 0-934678-89-8.
New Victoria Publishers, PO Box 27, NorwichV I
NEW VICTORIA PUBLISHERS 05055; 800-326-5297. Distributed by LPC/Login and
Backstage Pass: Interviews of Women In Music can be ordered from us: 800-243-0138. Books are also
by Laura Post. This collection of in-depth interviews
available through BP, Koen, Ingram and Bookazine,
tfge ox l lc i ki em t pe asd nee d us i dj n atb zo z e c ta mhu ue s se p i e cr in s ao ot nn sa o ln w l hy a on sd d eo e ps o s l oi it t n i gp c sr a e l s he aln i vvt ee s a iin o n f f i l4n 0 ut ei r nm o ca c et k de , b mu ot n ei yf .y ou order from LPC/ L —og Ni en, w we Vi cts oe re i am o Pr ue bl io sf h et rh se
generations
of women, but
some of the interviews include provocatait ive ediis ec
the definition
and
“th PAPIER-MACHE
PRESS
Photos. $16.95, 0-934678-84-7. In There’s No Place Like Home for the Holidays
coe F loe sa em teS eo r dl g i it lna ei g sr o be f i l aea n sa bn c lid h ia f a en n B wg ir ae d sa e h nf tm o irs Sab ry a h Sa —ra ah tD er fe lh ee cr ti, y si ae This s ; ge uWid e ssi at t ro or f c P outS lrha lpen el ed cb ,r te a is o t h ns a H e s la l ol bi frd n g oe u fm g aWa mhhn ite l n y tM oa I gr aA et ntmz eh, e c r dan t o h te aO e l swdf a a rm W m ae o l nd m dy a np h ro euI cms ie i pp o er s
September/October 1997 celebrating the annual journey home for the holiday®
3 :
72 Volume 20 Nut"Feminist Bookstore News
Written by authors aged 3 to 93, this delightful collec- i Gerontologist Dr. Ann Gerike’s down-to-earth
tion recalls the tenderness and exasperation of dealing ook, Old Is Not a Four Letter Word: A Midlife
with family members against the backdrop of long- Guide, humorously demolishes negativ
standing rituals. Tie-in with grand contest for about aging, instead describing enriching e cm hy ai ngb es s
consumers. $9.95 pb, 1-57601-053-8, October. and opportunities. Liberally accompanied by 120
Wise Choices Beyond Midlife: Women cartoons by Peter Kohlsaat, L.A. Times syndicated
Mapping the Journey Ahead by Lucy Scott, Ph.D. cartoonist, this book is powerful enough to change
with Kerstin Joslyn Schremp, Ph.D. Betty Soldz, attitudes about aging for a lifetime. “Dr. Ann Gerike
B.S.W. and Barbara Weiss, M.S.W. Based on the collec- and Peter Kohlsaat’s delightful book about aging is
tive professional and personal experiences of four whimsical and wise. When I finished reading it, I
experts (who also speak as elder women), this immediately resolved to send copies to my sisters
resource guide empowers the 24 million women over and mother.” —Deborah Tannen (You Just Don’t
60 years old to manage health, finances, housing, and Understand). “The doctor is in— the groove. The next
lifestyles. Helps answer the question: How can I, as an time someone laments getting ‘older’...give her or
older woman, maintain a satisfying and dignified life? him a copy of this serious fun book by psychologist
Foreword by Johnetta Marshall, President, Older Gerike.” —Helen Rippier Wheeler (Women and
Women’s League. Includes bibliography and index. Aging: A Guide to the Literature). 120 b&w cartoons
“Every woman over 40 should have Wise Choices by $10.95 pb, 1-57601-002-3.
her bedside.” —Carroll L. Estes, Ph.D., director, Insti- Flying Horses, Secret Souls by Randeane Tetu.
tute for Health and Aging, UCSF. “A pioneering work With humor and pathos, Tetu’s latest collection pulls
about what women really need to know about aging you deep into the imperceptible moments that under-
well.” —Barrie Robinson, M.S.S.W., University of lie our everyday experiences and yet change our lives.
California at Berkeley. $13.95 pb, 1-57601 -051-1, October. Set in small New England towns, the young and old
Living on the Spine: A Woman’s Life in the share a sense of magic and recapture the way we saw
Sangre de Cristo Mountains by Christina Nealson. things in childhood that helps us as grownups.
At age 40, Nealson abandoned possessions, forfeited “Spare, impressionistic and finely crafted stories.”
security, and moved to the Colorado mountains to live —Wally Lamb (She's Come Undone). “Tetu breathes life
alone. Wrapped in solitude and nature for five years, into all the people in these stories, especially the
she renewed her spirituality and explored her erotic young girls caught in that aching time between child-
Self in search of mid-life identity and self-sufficiency. hood and adolescence.” —Robert Cornier (The
Woven through with the revival and celebration of the Chocolate War). $10.95 pb, 1-57601-020-1.
eight seasonal holy days, Nealson’s adventures whis-
Per and holler one woman’s recovery of rituals,
— WyC aNa ao nu e Sa yue dt a m u )rah l e .l s se s s ern uo No lt o $n nan fi n 1’ tc 2s uw i ri 9s Wr ( ev 5tT eh o ’ hhty ei sh e pt c de beh a Am rwrWs i te a 1o (, s i s -n M mst 5s t d ea’ o ' 7a y n ns s 6n o ’ 0d a p su W aa h -t a una 0uh y sn s 0e t) m ac 3w rn . o le u e t t s r 1ir ht c “ ,o I a Y fr l e t —’ t alo hs ry y e s o A u gv n ch ro oen ti a hr ldic eb oae e rrs o se. w W t inD ho si . it f“ el o s”C l sh a n or r b W— loi d oiJ, u os t o u rt mu kl ii ady .in s ee na ”a h ,t bO _ c $re 6l a .sd — z 9t eI 5s , eW dA e ln eo cll 2 m ,m 7e a a ra 1nb o -fnr t 5a i hb 7m ed yI 6M o r g 0a ue S 1r sd h a e -t a xw 0zl c 5ap ,l et 2e r i rt -t pd lWi Xtewt -e , sie wa ,l- pi r i ls Oo i n a cez n n tPe b m odu i e b r nv ep 8ge rl t ar . he v ds a , a t ui l wo o n t i tsh l oe tae n o abf r el1 te. W e5 e dh p m hie ni o n l t thl! oei go a rn OA pc atm a pec o ha b po e spn e r .y .
. , 1 - .
September/ October 1997
Volume 20 Nu mber 3Feminist Bookstore N ews
Papier-Mache Press
ee CA 95076; 800-927, -652971 3W,a lkeere Setr
ookmen, Ingram, B&T, Koen, and i om BP,
Storm Cloud
sO
Problems
—Papier-Mache Press for the II]- =
1S nostalgia with a tw
nation of retro imag,
primers from the 30s
PLAIN VIEW PRESS on lessons in “good : a)
feesF ao sr t- eG aiv pi ng c: eA Fe ami ini est Cri Set ic bi sm oo bf iE ba g 0a 0i kn st it: T hh e Ru fl ue ls l. -. c. ot lh oi rs ib lo lo usk t' rs tif oo nr sm ,t l $o 1s youe ! 2i /e b ge ifl
e y R i tMense a w 30 a * 4 9i 1. 9- 9/ C C$s 1 8.95 t »
rture fro iti inky €r available.
Genevieve Vaughan eet See Se a
33 =e vs i, bw ah si ec dh is nb as me ad sco un limo nt eh er si on cg i, la in zd tio on an ii e
s o
a a n r
Se gm that has brought the planet to the brink of
ex nction. She proposes that it be replaced b but her life on :
paradigm based on mothering. A stimulatin { 4 Prozac Highwa ‘ aN et 1s one unpredictable ride,
e 8Pr 0+.o 0 ev -Po 8lc 7a a i 8t n -i 3v F Ve 6a il 0l e 5w wo ,C r ak t P. a r l e pso hA sgd , o. v ne P e$r O1 /t 7 fi .s a5 B0e o x d x pbi 3,n 5 3 3 1t 0 1 2h - 1e -9 , 1 4 F 1 4e 0 A 1m 5 u -1i s- 2n t9i 4i4s n 5-t 25 , ,TB Xo 5o 0k e7s % 8 mt 7 ao 6 ir f 4 loe :r ahN seo rov iv te e fll g as er t - sis f ! la u $nb 1gr 4 e .9a f 5t a h mt i /a lM Ce yk $e i 1e n 8tg .h, 9a 5t ,c y ie sbw 0e, -br 8ol 8tiC 9ht y 7 4b j a -e o s 0 ur 7rc r 8n eu -ael l Xy t . u aw nr i de t h asJL e a vs im rb a ti n ia adn l || |
In a world of “experts” and “professionals,” it’s |
(sbpvp@eden.com), Web (http://wwweden.com/~sbpvp). not often that we hear directly from poor, working-
Available from B&T. —Plain View Press class women activists. With her feisty sensitivity,
anti-poverty activist Sheila Baxter, in her fourth book |
Stull Raising Hell, covers an expansive terrain of
Sex Spoken Here
poverty issues and grassroots activism. The resultisa |
Good Vibrations comprehensive examination of some of the most
Erotic Reading Circle pressing problems facing poor communities today, as
well as a personal portrait of this inspiring and dedi-
Selections
cated activist in her 60s who just can’t — and won't |
Carol Queen & Jack Davis,
— stop Raising Hell! $14.95/C$18.95, 0-88974-076-3.
editors New in paperback this Fall — with a new cover
Coed Selected to cross gender — Sunnybrook: A True Story with Lies by Persim-
Po Sti sc R le is ad nii eg Cre boundarie y s and sexual mon Blackbridge. A 1996 finalist for a Lambda
2
=S creclions 6. orientations, over 40 Literary Award, Sunnybrook also has been
ESE Oi oinal short stories anda announced as a finalist for the 1996 Publishing
c sts ih op te lr y l i en r ock fa t l n ii wogn rne ig t two i eo f lf n l ev —re oo r pts ei ae c n n do f yf a of sn ue ptr ra o s kya ee . ny s e t sTa — hr it tsl o s i en t xg h h u o e at l,l io d tio ys vk .e e x ry -at —T F ri e -r oc a Li tt d e aa i e no mn r tn bg , . dl g ae ro e / “ e aF P ls Be o or s a oor t knn o d- - m RG o ea i pr d m oju e a rom r g tu .l in r ne n ey Ae d s ty . t o P trr ht Wyi ehtz h aee t o vls el ri is yf n c o g or b u o alt fL a dht fe os rab it dp si s k ao a bin b lg f e eons r ta a .n n p. md t r. o i r cG eeT a ?a h n y e od f
$14.50, Trade paper, 176 pages, 514" x 842" $15.95/C$18.95 pb! (96 pages, full-color illustrated
ISBN 0-940208-19-9 novel). 0-88974-060-7.
38 Ho (4w 1a 5r d 74St -. 8, 9# 81D 50 1o , w 1S 0an 5n F nFr saT a unh rc ce i e(s ,i r c 1e o aC m9A oP 4r S-9e q84 us a1 r80s e93 A Grv ne en ruP aer l, Le s s aCV a dn G Gc ra (o on suu eg pv ee r P au tnb B iC, d l C i , ss )Kh C oe a fr eC ran s n oa, md a i n I1 sr0 V ea1 i5 yn- V 2 n i2 Cn15 A C6d. uA bv lai l saa era
g ) 9 x * e ox : 4 A5 ) l 7 9 , f eo m P n l P c t t l e op e w H a R n a d a . i h s W |i
Bsoohkoaza7 ilne , Koen,o es ee Se Nena (Canada) and others. Volume 2e 0 Nus mbe r? |
September /October 1997Feminist
Bookstore
News
passionate, angry and joyous,
| doe $ aear cm oa mm pla e xik tn y ow of? eme od ti ite od n s by t hatL is aa c coC. m pM ao no yr e a tee photos is “s ato vr ae i lad bi ls ep . lay A
| a pian’s coming out. These 49 short stories,
Black ations and essays — fiction and nonfiction accompanied by perso
ik eup a powerful collection of original and new found the courage to lea
writing by 41 women. does your mama know? is ready pb, 1-878067-07-9.
: | } | J Ylt ee oo ws ut eba nlik glae en bi lt Gs ov ooop di ml c .eea zsc . ,e A i dn TC v eo ert n rrh ite t r iJh i sa eb el wu dl ets l o lr ,o if s n Mli a tt i hke n er ec a l dr u Fy ad e e mA if S nir C l ii vh sc ee ta rr n ay l BA a om n oe dC kr l si a tSrc ohka raen ey, fMe oad rri tt le i eT d n sh e bze i. ab yL e ,T s hJ ib wo si ic , la e ln l t y h hn eH le pa o Wl nlht wyih t me cB , eoo nmok pM: r. neD ahC . vea , ir n gi s an tiag evn d e f to hr ehM eaO a cr lu oi tr ns hs se ual sb v io ne o Cs k.
n s e o
f
|| AN et muw so tr k caF ra rl yl ! Ca —t Ja elo ng n. / F[ BA N .fa ]n ta $st 1i 9c . 95a nd p b,i ns 0p 9i 6r 5i 6n 6g 5 90re -a 9d .. san yd s tes mo me ant di me ps ro vu idn ew el a c fo om ri wn ag rd -m ta hz ie n kio nf gt he b luh ee pa rlt ih n t ca fr oe r
ie P } | 34 00 0% 3 1;d is 4c 0o 4u -n 8t 1. 5 -R 8e 39d 1B .o ne Press, PO Box 861, Decatur GA living well. Whether writing on breast cancer or child-
—RedBone Press birth, AIDS or menopause, the history or future of the
lesbian health movement, these women offer support
to lesbians seeking physical and emotional health.
$18.95 pb, 1-878067-31-1.
Film Fatales: Independent Women Directors by
| Another Wilderness: Notes from the New Judith M. Redding and Victoria A. Brownworth is an
Outdoorswoman edited by Susan Fox Rodgers. You'll inside look at the most influential women in inde-
| et pulled from your armchair, propelled up moun- pendent filmmaking. In-depth interviews feature
| ‘ins, carried deep under the sea and led down pioneering directors, producers and distributors who
adventurous paths in this lively collection. First released have changed the face of contemporary film by deliv-
| 1994, this new edition has a snappy new cover anda ering new and distinctly female images and
| Rew introduction by the editor. The writers embrace the sensibilities to the screen: Susan Seidelman, Mira Nair,
| challenges, fears and joys of exploring new terrain — Jane Campion, Allison Anders, Julie Dash and Lizzie
i Physical and emotional. $16 pb, 1-878067-30-3.
Borden, among others. $16.95 pb, 1-878067-97-4.
| re. d’Adventure: Travel Tales from Inner Nowle’s Passing: A Novel by Edith Forbes. With
| Writ ma to Outer Mongolia by Jessica Maxwell. a third of Vermont's farms squeezed out of business,
| ae | athe extraordinaire Jessica Maxwell the enigmatic, hard-working Vernon Nowle is found
Baca og » wild ride around the globe in this collec- shot dead. The police assume the wound was self-
inflicted — the result of depression due to SEIS
“insistent hg that will transform even the most
tales of pe monies into globetrotter-wannabes. Her difficulties — but unanswered questions nets the
| Whales Ae whitewater rapids, trailing rare death. With its subtle rendering of family = Pie
Peeing = traveling to Ireland, Mongolia, and ships and passions, Nowle’s Passing in : en
| Cious pur Part a sense of place and reveal her tena- meditative novel,” says The New York Time
i" Suit of wonder. $14 pb, 1-878067-98-2.
Review. = P es ee csatieReal Handbook
an Be : :
| Violence oe Like You: The Face of Domestic
s ¥ Yera Anderson. Domestic violence is a for cape Women by Ginny NiCarthy andeSye
September / October 1997
75Femin= i st Bookst© re News —
Nominated by the American
J\ Library Association for the
bes¢
( gay non-fiction of the year,
Lo
et Ai p= L na om mb ind ea fL ori te tr hea ry eaA rw ’a sr d
e
y
b es¢
y\\ small press title.
Lesbian Polyfidelity: How To Keep
Nonmonogamy Safe, Sane, Honest &
Ww (21 Laughing, You Rogue! by Celeste West
50% trade discount on all prepaid orders: Booklegger Publishing
PO, Box 460654VY, San Francisco CA 94146. 4| 5/642-7569.
Distributors; Bookpeople, Koen, Alamo Square, Baker & Taylor-and
oa xo multiple es
oO sexualoves — Marginal in Canada.
ISBN 0-912932-15-5 $15 paper, ISBN 0-912932-16-3 $25 cloth
RD
rasD e aca l c nv l e gei s erd s s iG bo oe ln ft e . t i tn s oA g t y il cs eF i r em e fp , dol r ei sf Y ii o t ghe u e nd edC wv a oe nr m ts oa i B no e hn lF pio r n f e e c S re oia i ss ml i s e.w nrPr i Ie t t s ts le c’ en os v ve ei rb n se s aat nn- a Haiv rn ea evr ii ese nNit b ay l t He i ao vf re o vc ieu nr Al t mu at er i nre m ds ie , . c a Bens A so m sm ioe ean ng d Hw ae rl Bt vl h l e- e a yk ck n 7 5o aw nan w dr, t o i m s mte oo s rn th e ir nfs c fe ala mut im du la ir id ne ae gd
p s e w a l d e r
sa hb eu ls ti ev r e tr o el ba ut ii lo dn is nh gip , a f nr eo wm w nh ee tr we o rt ko g oo f fo rr e le atm ie or ng she in pc sy . artists including Georgia O'Keefe, Judy Chicago, Lee
This edition includes a new introduction and updated Krasner, Frida Kahlo and Mary Cassatt. It is a steal at
resources. $10.95 pb, 1-878067-06-0. $24.95 pb, 0-929005-99-6, October.
98121;S ea 2l 6P -r 2es 8s 3, 73 81 43 41 W fe as te 2r 0n 2A 8v 5e -n 94u 1e .# 41 D0 i, tS re ia bt ut tl ee W bA
0 - , x 6- 0 s d y
PGW and available from BP.
—Seal Press There is nothing available like Sweet pi:
SECOND
STORY PRESS Stories of Menstruation by Kathleen O'Grady es
Paula Wansbrough. The first book that adie
emotional side of this rite of passage, it ail
perceptive short stories with clear factual infor a
for adolescent
women about menstruation
Re
bodily changes they are experiencing. mane at
ine how many parents will be buying this
$9.95, 0-929005-33-3?
aie atholi¢ )
In Fault Line: Sexuality, Incest aie fe minist |
Family Culture by Tish Langlois a Ce ithi e
takes a controversial
look at sexual hae {foster |
Catholic family and the religious ideology ,
the unequal power relationships |
that lea
H
|
76 Volume 20 N
oOFeminist Bookstore News
and abuse. Drawing on personal stories from inter- in a Household of Boys, Karin Kasdin expresses what
views with survivors, the author clearly lays the every feminist mother of sons desires: boys who grow
foundation for a better understanding of why sexual up to be sensitive men. Through foibles recounted and
abuse occurs and how women can reconstruct their lessons learned, she crawls into the souls and minds of
identities and empower themselves. $16.95 pb, her sons and beseeches them to see life from her female
0-929005-98-8. perspective. Outrageously candid and funny, Kasdin
Belfry Bat and Scaredy Cat by Gayle McGuire sheds a new light on mothering men-to-be. A gift to all
Tremblay is already a book club selection that is mothers. $14.95 pb, 0-9638327-9-4.
impossible to resist. This hilariously funny, full-color Spirited Threads: A Fabric Artist’s Passion For
picture book is about a timid bat who becomes the Life: The Art and Writings of Patricia Roberts Cline
navigator for Mildred, a wild and wonderful witch, in by Cynthia Grant Tucker is the compelling memoir of
a race against Thunder Monster, the fastest roller- an artist whose passion for her art enabled her to
coaster in the world. For children under eight. $5.95 transcend her disability. “It is also a larger story —
pb, 0-929005-93-7; $12.95 cl, -95-3. about the struggle of women everywhere (especially
By internationally acclaimed author Rachna women artists) to overcome marginalization, to dis-
Gilmore, whose books have been translated into 14 cover who we truly are, and to remain connected to
languages, Wild Rilla introduces a new fantastic our vision despite pain and isolation. Spirited
female character. A full-color picture book about a Threads is a testament to the enduring bonds of
seemingly ordinary girl who can turn herself into women across time and distance, and a reminder that
Wild Rilla, a feisty supergirl who helps teachers and our own lives are the stories that we must weave as
even the principal during the time when she is the legacy for the next generation.” — Audrey May,
supposed to be sitting quietly. An empowering story Owner, Meristem Bookstore, Memphis. Features 46
for children under eight. $5.95 pb, 0-929005-92-9; b&w photos and sketches, 24 vivid colorful quilt
$12.95 cl, -94-5. images. $19.95 pb, 0-9638327-8-6.
And don’t forget the most popular edition of The Sibyl Publications, 1007 SW Westwood Drive,
Women’s Daybook. Due to great demand, the 1998 Portland OR 97201; 503-293-8391, fax 503-293-8941,
edition features photographs on the theme orders 800-240-8566, email (sibylpub@imagina.com).
“Women/Gardening/The Earth.” Besides the origi- Distributed by APG, Ingram, B&T, and BP.
nal photographs and accompanying text, this —Sibyl Publications
192-page, spiral-bound, desk calendar features a prac-
tical format that is universally acclaimed by working
women. A gorgeous package and only $12.95,
0-929005-96-1. SPINSTERS INK
Second Story Press, 720 Bathurst Street #301, Spinsters Ink proudly announces the publication
Toronto ONT, M5S 2R4, Canada; 416-537-7850, fax of two “must-read” debut novels this Fall!
416-537-0588. All Second Story Press titles are avail- Our September release, A Gift of the Emperor by
able through LPC Group. —Second Story Press Therese Park, a native of Korea, is the fictional account
of real-life atrocities inflicted upon approximately
SIBYL PUBLICATIONS 200,000 Asian women during World War II. This story,
In her new book, Oh Boy, Oh Boy, Oh Boy! Con- inspired by the recent revelations in the international
fronting Motherhood, Womanhood and Selfhood media that have rocked Japanese society and rever-
Volume 20 Number 3 77 September/October 1997FFem Aini Bst UBo Lok Osto Ure SN ews FALL BOOKS b e Kra ot re ed th sr co hu og oh lgo iu rt t khe dw no ar pl pd isnarratedyy SOog n.s1o
a a n l i e d Y
from New BV Aic Cto Kr Sia APu Gb El ish Pe Ars S S Pa an cd fis c.h i Hp ep re ed sto a is“ h fo oru cs ee o ini toe Proste ite ti. oa e theS O Sod ui te hd
T
i , h e d u n ,
fort woman.” This searing account of sea me
Interviews with Women in Music endurance of the callous brutality with ie Woman's.
1 r any mub siy c L la ouverra —aP of es rt n ific collection of beings can treat one another provi se CI Oc mph e h |i p 3 ae
mn ose t e t alenb te eh di nd w- ot mh ee n- sce sn ie ngs e rs,c hat ss o ngwwi rt ih t ern s ays pt oes wt ei rm o on fy lot vo e t oh ve e r st hr ae ten ,g th a ndo f tht eh e ulh tiu mm aa ten ae en: |
Alix. ic Dia on bs k. in— ,R oz M aW ra ir ar ne nn e Fai’ t hfull, folly a hope over despair. The Kansas City Star hae Phot
_ Ani DiFranco, Ferron, to na declared “at long last, with [Park’s] help, th y |
w-whose soanges onf eeem powe rment h ave influenced and about her former countrywomen has stant oe 1 |
ated generations of women. A resource of contemporary
face, and the world is listening.” $10 o5
n's culture.
Ne nee photos + $16.95 paperback * ISBN 0-934678-84-7 1-883523-21-4. 9 ty
SOLITAIRE AND BRAHMS Our October release, Living at N; ?
Mariana Romo-Carmona, cortices eed a
by Sarah Dreher
In her first novelistic foray out of Stoner territory, Dreher creates a ries by Latinas. Living at Night draws us intl a
vivid, funny, touching and Ss look at pre-Stonewall lesbian world of Erica Garcia, a young, working-class
rl eif ae l. .. . YouD re wih le l r' ns e verc ha fr oa rgc et te rs t hema .r e -v Di ebr ba on rt aly h a Pl ei iv fe e r and frighteningly Puerto Rican lesbian living in Connecticut andi
ISBN 0-934678-85-5 + $12.95 paperback searching for her own niche in the world, despite the |
pressures of satisfying family, friends and lovers.
MURDER IN THE CASTRO
Erica’s unresolved anguish over her own mother's |
illness prompts her to drop out of college and work |
by Elaine Beale
This exciting mystery introduces Lou Spencer, an ex-Brit with a past as a nurse’s aide at an institution for developmen-
she wants to forget, now making a new life in San Francisco's Castro
district as manager of an agency advocating for victims of hate tally disabled persons. Romo-Carmona shows |
crimes and gay bashing. Erica’s personal struggles with the role she playsin |
ISBN 0-934678-87-1 + $10.95 paperback stripping patients of their dignity, her attempts tobe
TWIST OF LIME their advocate, and the lessons she learns from those
qpTL l uhy o een t s n t f id ulgA e ol Iao n Ste sohL s f Ny bt n w rt oo if i 0n s n -t gc f s s 9o e a 3lE s al 4hv t no 6ea dwa r 7l n 8tv t -s uB oo 8m e l sl 8u t,i -hM n z e xe t ; y e as e s bt r rot i L ne yh kA nr e n nly ’np o .s f do ab n lr y p eo e eua n ss $cC t eM hl esa a a ny au .L tn 9d y f 5ni o n raa ' pr s a c ash k pM e iS eno i eu c l s bK o p ag ia ci c kcy ia o ml ns . d ig A. M$h aw 1e d Nh 0r o . o l 9m e 5 Sp 5s pe 5c i 8r pe nn 0bs n so , 2o tc ;n ee o 1 ra n - sl 8e 8 i 8n 0I3tj -e no 5 kx 3o 2 ,p 0u 3 e 1ar -c -dn 2 3t 62u 2es 8l -y 6t 2 E 0h , at oo sf tor O db o c (e , t Fm io rbt isce e ntn oa r ic n . tgh S fh te ru rtr ss e s @i e ato oi n— n t # .o 3 3ic on 0h mt ,mr o )o o ,rn D n ci ulic la Wn ul r eg tii bt h,n y g . | | |
B b
1 0 r 0 , s p s e l c
BARBIE
(http: / / www.lesbian.org /spinsters-ink/). Distrib-
=a A : Parody SOF of t tt he Barbie; Obsession* uted by LPC/InBook, and also available from BF,
ae h Strohmeyer * eSsion Ingram, B&T, and other wholesalers. —Spinsters
THIRD SIDE PRESS
and
Hardcover lesbian literary fiction! Mew
well-crafted, The Mayor of Heaven reveals : ire
life of four people whose link to one another onths
New Victoria Pubji Morganstern, who died from breast cancer ae. . 7
1800-326.5s2h9e7rs before the opening of the novel. Special z 3 |
0% 27 Norwich, vr 05085
NEWViC@aol.com 8rieving /surviving partners and friends, ™" 7 |
September/October 1997 ral, deaf, cancer activists, lovers of lesbian A
78Feminist Bookstore News
1 fiction, fans of Lynn Kanter’s first novel, On Lill Street.
| A meaningful gift book. $22.95 cl, 1-879427-29-x, Rh eT rw eo erne rw anfe eat rur re gf iil tms i rSt ear rri ng Joha en n oP au mli rk:
| O 1c to 6b 0e 6r 0. 5 -1T 8h 0i 2r ;d S 7i 7d 3e - 27Pr 1e -s 3s 0, 2 92 ,2 50 f axW . 7 7F 3a -r 2r 7a 1g -u 0t 4, 5 9,C hi ec ma ag io l va uc ea st ion to resolve é fal ii ln ig 1 ea lae onso hin wh itha
a n g r ti p h is
‘,dSide@aol.com). Discounts (via Consortium): girlfriend and becomes transfixed by Pavel’s (Johan
| 1-4, 20%; 5-24, 42%; 25-99, 43%; 100-249, 44%; 250-499, Paulik) beauty. ($39.95, #11269.) Sunshine After the
} 45%; 500-750, 46%, 750+, 47%. Our titles are available Rain. Seven friends share a villa on the beach
} from all major wholesalers, but much more of the together for the last days of summer. They have been
| money comes back to us if you buy from Consortium. friends and lovers and will shortly be going their
| Titles from all Consortium publishers combine for separate ways off to college. What more can we
discount. —Third Side Press Say...seven gorgeous men together for the last
summer of their youth...things definitely heat up.
($29.95, #11270.)
Stonewall special — your cost only $50. Over $1
| WOLFE VIDEO million at the box office! Three snaps up for one of our
| Teasers is coming this summer. The latest addition favorites with a great soundtrack including Patti La
| toour Lesbian Erotica series is a tantalizing collection of Belle, The Shangri-Las and The Shirelles! Nigel Finch
| short films hand selected from the best lesbian film brings us this fabulous love story set in the Stonewall
| makers in the festival circuit today. Four inspired (and Bar in 1969. A must have for your rental section! Plus,
inspiring) short erotic films have been brought together Wolfe Video will guarantee price protection on every
with two exquisite music videos — all six are provoking copy you buy for sell through to your customers.
Regularly $94.95, #11244.
‘and passionate. 120 minutes, $29.95, #5172.
The Castro. “Must see viewing.” —The Advocate.
| Now known internationally as the world’s first “gay
| hih hs ao t vm o ee r yt . fo w Tn h t, i h” s h rS i ea g nn th al lF y r a aan ncc dci ls ac so ei l’ m ls e d C ha rds oot ucr go u m edi sns ett cr a ti r ic ot y sh a iss a a m yur oi s uc t rh Valeri$ e1 9. S9 o5 anP ar si ,c e leR se bd iu anc ti so en ps ar: tiI tS h ao nt A fn od uy erW ar oh ol th.
| o r e t h n in l a s d nd f e
Store. Filled with rare archival footage, the story of Society for Cutting Up Men (SCUM), has one mission
H f $ 2t th 9he o . s 9eC 5 a ,s wt hr #oo 1’ 1s 2 l 7o 1t .vr ea dn s if t,o r ym oa ut ni go n ano dv er o ldt ,h e sty re aa ir gs h t is ant dol d gab yy . — g thi ev eto s cs uap lnr t ue ria and lc rt eh d we i h b iw l reo l r wd p i e nro dff of re m om fa a nl c ee e v . es nu tp S see tr i so inr u i rtt rhy e o. u 6 nL 0 di sl i i nd gT ua ry il tno hgr e
| | | _ 4 aP r No erf y ne T s i F rh s n eri o t ge ee or n v c Le hw h os . eh u. r . go . w nC tEf o ia ha n sr et l g ,l lh ls de S i r usi ti rn h ho fn f a se l cs o eumv mb .e uD at r ie dt Bdw en l ai e -e e st fr su h e o. v d re -aa $ tn o9 ey n9d . li os 9 u t5 vs hn ,a ee g l f p#s i- 1o o ot d 1p p nh e 2h ui s 7ei lt 2fs mar .t oru —i cc t iba i eot a o e on nd d . k Ws T a ma lh hh eio e ta d nyo at , t z Ci zae an ls nlTg i dlh nta u h gto l i’f lo s s ei A h sd e bn u xE ind un aC dy bt nl r e e so er r sW t a dea oa n -tr ni t y h n , eo dm a tl oe hre. en es yt e ( sh-f# io iod1 lr spi0 v td e0 eH o r0 n r o6 i y. lf n so) l cr g r y o f eC w eme mo nol to .o hl v v edu i i l e Neo a r hi o ro ld o rm em au ro tsC s oi . el c e do as x le Bust au-,. p y b y
a i e i s v i s
|| | | : Yo0 “ce uW $ 5 9.f 9a 5ar ,tv o a Bmi t il hea h o ib sl sO e .l c y ho min pl id Pv ph c i o sd oe o d. t o tT o h h isi t ss h e si uus bsn ubh f si o es r qg us et eto ntr ay t b l cw e oh mi ic p neh gr f g t oa r ok ume t-s . L 9i 5l 0y 4 2T W ;o o m ll fi e 4n 0. 8V -i( 2d# 61 e0 8o0 , -0 67 7. P) 8O 2 , Bo f x a x 64, 40N 8e -w 2 68-A —9l W4m o4a l9d f,e e n VW ieC debA o
(www.wolfevideo.com).
September/ October 1997
Volume 20 Number 3 79now lives in Norway. Her six aa
108ra
stories of growing up during the Cultural pe Phica
Liddell,
by Janice Lee were first published in Norwegian Re °Volutio,
ther’s Herstory Jr, is a wonderful
been translated into English with her h i © noy
book thai t g f randm : L oi tn hd es re y i l“ lw uJ r so i r t t . e rd s ao ” tn e, ” d" f br oo om k h ie sr if ne) tw en n dee dx pe t- o hn ee av rer t breb ae ke ,n tp heu bl gii rs l he ind thi en s e Ch si tn ore is ee s! HS In e e elp. Th Oe f the
riences. This delicately } Pi uble gift, one for grand- Very fresh, unsentimental and Powerful w tough kj d
Ae TE lh e t es hr ea rn d /c sh th i oi s r l yi d g. r ba y nF di fi mr is o lt lt, i h nge rth . ie n WNla o ot ro mwr e e ngiH aa n in n so TW rn o a m ne sn lis ’ a ts i t ohe nF i ,c te i 5d o 2i n 3t . o r N$ .1 2o 8.f 4 9 t5 h A y p Sb t, r e= e1 t ,. 87 SO 0 er 0 , 79T -Sta 1o 0n ry 9g .
gories —events
T thh ee n s pag cr ea sn d o f 98103; 206-781-9612. Available from Bp _ attle Wa
of her birth, —Women in Trans]
Try i he ea enr cs pe; s r; eh se er h ne trc ao tu m ir oit nds h di l op fe, thaM em g e oman i “hs Ation
c p leted er” story book to
ct yh ce eg .r a Tn hd ec h ci ol md plc eo tn ec dl ud be os th pis op mh ia ss ee o af st oh e tog i bf et c-g oi mv ei ng WOMEN’S PRESS-Canada
o k r s l a
l
family treasure to be passed from generation to gen- feminiT shi ts f pa ull b, l isW ho inm ge ! n’ Afs t Press celebrates 25reple years
eration. Designed for grandmothers and p §: After a rough year, we're pleased
grandchildren of African heritage, wisdom quotes to announce five new releases for the Fall,
from women sages of African descent frame each Everywoman’s Almanac 1998: Women and
page. This “her-storical” document belongs in every Food features twelve interviews with women on the
African, African American, Afro-Caribbean and Afro- significance of food in our lives. Contributors
European home. 50% for 5+. $9.99, no ISBN. A address the politics of malnutrition and starvation,
Woman’s Place, PO Box 10678, Atlanta GA 30310; cultural expectations of female emaciation and ifs
404-752-9413, fax 404-371-1023. _. —A Woman’s Place consequences — poor body image and self-esteen—
bulimia, anorexia, vegetarianism, and gender role
WOMEN IN TRANSLATION
expectations dictating that all women be responsible
Ask the Sun by He Dong, translated from the for the preparation of family meals to women. Asone
Norwegian by Katherine Hanson. A book with an woman says, “Good food is like good sex. It satisfies
interesting genesis. He Dong is a Chinese poet who you, enhances your spirit and puts you tosleep.” The
New Expanded Edition!
[| O
Hi - Ee
a
ci et aes ae of. Sexism is essential reading for any- pe. :
a8 atool to beet al : erstanding of how homophobia functions hobia:
transpender—from 5 i Just those lesbian, gay, bisexual and P A
individuals and or caching their full potential. Used by countless
care panizations and taught in coll Weapon
3 zi, this $b 1o 2o .k Pro Iv Si Bd es a -P 8o 9w 0e 7rf 5u 9l 01to .o 5l f boe e ducae tie e a ore
ng. 0 0 1 . or th e on a nd ga - vA P O
14 toro Women’s Project Sex ism
Phone 501-372-5] ta * Little Rock, AR e 72206
s&h $2.004 59 Bx 372-0009 « Wproject@
bg
Palso avail Eable thro “ cach add'l « 8 yisKao e&n mB ook iDk r iL Sue phart
Saabs pg 00k Distributors
80
a
aFeminist Bookstore News
| Everywoman’s Almanac is a fascinating and varied the most amazing adventure that happened to
| c o so u pil r rl ae lc ,lt ii v -eo 2sn . 2 3-o 4$f . 8 .t 9h 5 oug sh et ws n o bn oua n dt ,o pic 0 -8t 8ha 9t 6 1-t 2o 2u 2c -h 6e ;s a $l 9l .9o 5f a1 n4 d- ye ha er r- o bl ed s t a fn ri im ea ndl s r Gi eg eh tt as Bac et ni nvi is nt g I an ng dr id L arL ru yn d Fs et enr eo ym .
The day after school ends for the summer, Ingrid
notices a neighbour carrying home what looked from
a distance like a tiny furry animal. That same after-
t noon, Ingrid’s younger brother Eric finds a skinny,
| ! Spirit Alive: A Woman's Healing from Cult dirty black-and-white cat eating the stale bread their
i) | Ritual Abuse by Jadelinn. A clear and moving record mom had thrown into the backyard for the birds. So
of one woman’s healing from cult and ritual abuse. begins a summer quest to rescue the rest of aneglected
Releasing the pain and fear locked inside for years and litter of kittens from a neighbour’s locked garage.
.) | learning to trust her ability to heal, Jadelinn remem- $8.95, 0-88961-225-0.
|| bers, copes, accepts, denies, rages, learns, feels, Women’s Press—Canada, 517 College Street #302,
challenges, mourns. She reaches beyond survival, Toronto ON, Canada M6G 4A2; 416-921-2425, fax 416-
| beyond a crowded internal prison of many voices. 921-4428, email (wompress@web.net).
| Through courage, honesty and trust, she finds joy and —Women's Press—Canada
‘compassion, and she declares her spirit alive. $14.95,
| 0-88961-221-8.
Small Press Distributors
| Bolero: A Novel by Assar-Mary Santana, trans-
| lated by Louise Hinton in collaboration with Suzanne
Alamo Square Distributors
| Grenier. Bolero is a story of love and fascination for
PO Box 14543, San Francisco CA 94114
_ the mother, an enchanting depiction of bonds between
415-863-7410, fax 415-863-7456
| women. Tari’s mother, known only to the reader as la
| magnifica, takes her on a trip to her mother’s native Bookpeople (BP)
| village, a village where traditional African spirituality 7900 Edgewater Drive, Oakland CA 94621
| is practiced, a village of magic and mystery. Tari meets 800-999-4650, fax 510-632-1281
| Rosaura and begins to explore her own sexuality. This
Consortium
} is a beautiful story about solitude, tenderness and
1045 Westgate Drive, St. Paul MN 55114
passion. $10.95, 0-88961-217-X.
800-283-3572, fax 612-221-0124
_ The New Midwifery: Reflections on Renais-
" sance and Regulation edited by Farah M. Shroff.
Koen/Inland (Koen)
| Midwives and social scientists from a variety of cul-
10 Twosome Drive, Moorestown NJ 08057
yl identities, political perspectives, geographical 800-257-8481, fax 609-727-6914
locations, and educational backgrounds reflect, in
| clear and accessible language, on the legislative proc- LPC Group (InBook/Login Trade/Womensoutce)
| esses involved in the regulation of midwifery. 1436 West Randolph Street, Chicago IL 60607
800-243-0138, fax 800-334-3892
| Parents-to-be, policy makers, health care workers,
| educators and the general public will find The New
Publishers Group West (PGW)
_ Midwifery invaluable in learning more about this
Box 8843, Emeryville CA 94662
| Te-emerging profession. $16.95 pb, 0-88961-224-2.
800-788-3123, fax 510-658-1834
| The Summer Cat Caper by Anita Utas is about
us
, September/October 1997
Volume 20 Number 3 81Bookstore News
Feminist
and teachers. This is often a set
= h" wO erM A dE rN S iin t’ g r SS a: n Ag odeP orR l feE a stS c S e rM n i- ty t h- iU s iU gl . aTK ra e. i bb yd o l i ute se , - d tsW hobo ey m m re se tH in e ml ofee snW r di v oBt e lre r ea y si cda Mb nOo tis Vu t .a s i Ust nu bd t ehi lee A o s n glK a ia i tn nend gsd ,tn l e oi nst nose evr ea l ot t f u o r te bt h yh e ec o ltu aC hr e nhs dies l mr. d ae r rne k$ on 9 w pn 9 b e o5 y, d 0 J - e©7 an0 4 3 R. iW lw 3 eg y o 5 f Tn h' i | f
oe n m o a e s
bF ero dm ooc mo sm m to oe no = iouo sf c au cl cl oe un nty so un og f s It o ce or hes a an brd se eu ,n t eid y p ta rrn ad i m eaa r li elb dye st tt os he e Jl l ase mtr ao ir cyo n of b oto rh t rh te he s wi fd io re sms e n tO if meat h ee c te lan tig W,N O oV hIa atl i ge y |
hi lar v l a f e t t o n h l
r ol u
aSt ce a l lam a in me et de n ine P ede rn io tfi aial n:be i t “of ep s nu upo ip noe r et lm . s It h oa vs io f D gea .ed ro le hs —ic g Te h hn l et y w ho hf i ai s st h he d sr e ha aeth yrhu ;s ab Ja l ien e na gd n Ja’ , ac s y w ahc iooh cf i ap l c ad aioh ln lmo eo hs ad en d t a lon t fd es o e re at m o ne dh nc e tro : n e e aaa gi ito d ea s t ye Ct aCh rae lr ,r P yWl Wiia hntg oghe
c B G y m n t e d m r i i s
Cn r‘ iam te cs t. h le ey $17 a. W9 n5 o, d m0 e- H7 n e0 l4 e3 W n- r 4 i4 t7 We2 i - na6 d. b r o au tt h .F oo Sd p ice yd ,i te sd t eb ay m yL au ar ni de, t to a ntf in nd o veh ler eo xw pln o res se ns te h e of c oi nn td ee mp pe ond re an rc ye . oli io IMpor.
fs rc or mu m Mpt ai yo au s ns gt eo lri oe us b Vy w Mo cm De en mi in ce al ne db ra mt aio nn o of hf eo ro sd C ea mr ei rb gb ee da n fra on md itt . he $ 13s .i 9t 5u ,a ti 0o -n 7 04o 3f -4t 3he 1 9-w 3or .r ies a OO hf at yh ee |
A , a l r d y t .
0-7043-4500-5.
$13.95,
Love and Friendship (sic) and Other Early
Works by Jane Austen. Jane Austen’s writings as a
young woman showed her developing devastating Also now available is Joan Riley’s Romance,
social criticism and sharp wit combined with a youth- featuring defiantly fat Verona, who imagines herself
ful exuberance. They are collected here in an the blonde, blue-eyed heroine of the latest Milla and
anthology for feminists, lovers of Austen, students, Boons romance, and her sister, Desiree, who is
frustrated in her role as wife and mother, Tha
Desiree’s husband's grandparents, Granny Ruby and
Grandpa Clifford, arrive from the Caribbean and
POWERFUL everything starts to look up. The novel celebrates
Caribbean life and earned Joan Riley considerable
acclaim. “One of the most original and uncompromis-
A strong feminist volce that’s
ing Caribbean writers.” —Times Literary Supplement.
reasoned, literate, highly $13.95, 0-7043-4508-0. |
readable, and tackles topics of
The Knot of Time: Astrology and Female
c too pn -c ne or tn c h to wom Pen.R HeOre VIs O CATIVE
Experience by Lindsay River and Sally Gillepsie is
Journalism feminist analysis of astrology, which transforms
with
ditional interpretations of the horoscope and
eye-opening reports and a keen analysis of what's encourages us to use feminist astrology to explorethe
really going on in America and throughout the world, range of choices open to us in our lives. “Thisis@
PROGRESSIVE
which invites you toto j join the author on an adver
ture...the book flows from situation to ep
spinning patterns and symbols, houses, planels
aspects.” —FAA Journal. $15.95, 0-7043-3912- f-Help
In Our Own Hands: A Book of i, js 2
Therapy by Sheila Ernst and Lucy On apf fot
groundbreaking book on do-it-yourse us sues tt
women, which embodies feminist be ork ©
describes all kinds of therapy from bone table
js sul
p fos ry c nh oo va in ca el sy ti tc al tl hey ra- pb ased andt her ta hpi oe ss a havea 4ab <en ae
o y e
)
PY
Volume 20
82Feminist Bookstore News
| involved with therapy for many years. It is particu- Telling It Like It Is: Young Asian Women Talk
| larly helpful for those who want to make an edited by Nadya Kassam is a dynamic anthology of
informed choice between the many varieties of indi- young Asian women writing about their lives. Often
Bye sidual therapy, led groups or self-help groups, who caught between two cultures, some writers yearn for
YT) want to do some therapy on their own or with a more freedom to go out on dates and wear different
| friend or who want to set up, run and sustain a kinds of clothes, others fiercely stick up for their
| self-help therapy group. $17.95, 0-7043-3841-6. cultural values and practices. The book caused some
controversy in Britain and was very widely
| SY PA
acclaimed. It was featured in The Times and in the
leading teenage magazine, Sugar, as well as through-
out the broadsheet and educational press and on radio
The Women’s Press will also be making available
in the U.S. three titles by Mary Daly: Pure Lust: and TV. “Some of the contributions will make you
Elemental Feminist Philosophy, Websters’ First chuckle, some will make you fume, others will amaze
New Intergalactic Wickedary of the English you whether you are Asian, or not. Everything that
| Language (conjured by Mary Daly in cahoots with matters is covered.” —The Times. $9.95, 0 7043-4941-8.
|
Jane Caputi) and Outercourse: The Be-dazzling Voy- The Women’s Press Ltd., 34 Great Sutton Street,
London England EC1V ODxX. Distributed in the U.S.
age. Pure Lust is Mary Daly’s classic text which
| exposes the reality of patriarchy and exhorts us to the by Trafalgar Square; 800-423-4525.
—Women’s Press-U.K. O
| courage to sin against it. (0-7043-3935-8.) Webster’s
| First New Intergalactic Wickedary of the English
| ' Language is her feminist Web-Work of words, which
| frees the English language from its patriarchal and Raves, continued from page 35.
} ‘confining patterns by Weaving a feminist linguistic their owners and their children were used as hostages
_ revolution. (0-7043-4114-X.) And Outercourse is Mary to keep their mothers in line to the government
Daly’s autobiography, combined with her developing sponsored “family planning” programs designed to
| visionary feminist philosophy (0-7043-4372-X). coerce thousands of Black women into being sterilized,
i Finally, there are two brilliant new books from the Black women have been used and abused. (Between
_ Livewire series for young women. A Different Life by 1929 and 1941 70,000 Black women were involuntarily
| , Lois Keith is a superb novel about 15-year-old Libby sterilized; in 1970, 200,000 Black women were steril-
i Starling, who becomes disabled after swimming in the ized, and in 1980, 700,000 Black women were sterilized.
| Sea ona school trip. It is a great read — very vibrant, Does this mean 1.5 million Black women were
| funny and entertaining — and one of the very few sterilized in 1990?) In the 1990s Black women are fight-
| books for teenagers on the experience of disability with ing court-ordered Norplant implants and Depo-
¥ ood feminist and disability politics. The author, Lois Provera injections, both of which deny women control
’ Keith, is the author of the acclaimed Mustn’t Grumble: over their own bodies and reproduction and cause
| Writing by Disabled Women, which won the MIND Book serious side effects. Black women crack users who are
| of the Year Award. A Different Life reflects and sup- pregnant are jailed and separated from their kids at
| ports the experience of young disabled women and astounding rates. What are we going to do? Read this
| Provides an excellent perspective on disability for all book, inform yourself and take some action. Isn’t it
| young readers. It is the ideal book for feminist parents time? Advertised in the Feminist Bookstore Network
| g) ive to their kids. $11.95, 0-7043-4946-9. Fall Catalog. $26 cl, 0-679-44226-X, Pantheon. —JT
Volume 20 Number 3 83 September/October 1997_——_———
News
Bookstore
Feminist
Femino ia T SHI BALLA CD URCHOF T byh e nB hal Vl aa
rer eag on meL ra id ci ae ns I D wD eY H C h u Lr ic d Ho ef Siddy
s ts
A
n k
Breathe Fire |
Edited by Sonia Shah
HT eh e TstB hoa rrl oyl a gd o Ef adS dii ieg
pamD ir na eg to sn BL ra ed ai tes h: A Fs iri ea ,n pA rm oe mir ni ec na tn t h e o hf Ea 'sw r eya et Sh it nel gls
e
u e O
ilaA tar ns itt di cei a s atn cas en, A am cn sre ltad ir si tc a rca at an Ai mv nki dlw s t ro rs m eae as nnn e i ez epe rew rr i st it h ne e ir ss ht, tp uo -w oe elsr SM1 ma9 ae 6 l0 l'm si c r nA Puo es 'c lt eso ir s a el sm .i 9a , wo sif l ht me rh bs pe eb um atii dd le .1 u9 ye4 0 rs5 e4 l) 7 j
oao ff t h e c i ur l t Auu n i al aq n su ,e b nc p o e g r oi it i o gmcc u nl d f t e o lm i p na n re t tc si c i av p e - w e e l b se o u ts r v e J e s 0i al m y e us la ‘
s r a n , d o a s f t d h a d ec p a e t : N e f y a | a m
United States.
$13.95 paper
$$ 41 07 .. 00 00 cp la op te r ° 00 -- 88 99 66 00 88 -- 55 77 65 -- 79 1-875559-61-2
h » |
950 pages * 5 3/8 x 8 + 10 b/w photos 261 pages*5x7%
TSAR Publications Turnstone Publications
What Birds Can Only
Her Mother’s Ashes 2
More Stories by South Asian Whisper
» Women in the United States A Novel About Recovered
y) and Canada Memory and Surviving
© 45), Edited by Nurjehan Aziz Sexual Abuse
by Julie Brickman
| These precisely crafted and sensi-
tively told short stories—about An engrossing novel about an
romance, marriage, racism, and spir- accomplished young musicians :
itual quest oxpjore the wonderfully journey through the voices of eatly
complex and manifold world of South memory and childhood sexua!
Asian women living in the United
States and Canada. trauma.
$14.95 paper
$14.95 paper
0-88801-214-4
0-9206 Teo
320 pages °5 2x8 % )
208 Pages *5%x 8%
ph Street, Chi =
hone orders 1-800-626. linois, 60607
_F AX orders 1-800-334- eee or 1-800-243-0138
Sep ember/ October 1997Feminist Bookstore
News
wy, GI
XZ
By Jenn Tust with Dorothy Holland Also includes Ben Fong-Torres “Why Are There No
Male Asian Anchormen on TV?” Nathan McCall's
GLAS: New Russian Writing has the best contem- “Danny,” about the first white friend he lets into his
porary Russian writing in English translation, with life and heart, and Mab Segrest’s “Fear to Joy: Fighting
photographs and author’s notes. GLAS, edited by the Klan.” A must read and a must carry! 570 pages,
Natasha Perova and Arch Tait, is published several $29.95 pb, 1-55934-579-9.
times each year in trade paperback format. The theme Courage of Conviction: Women’s Words,
of Issue 14 is Beyond the Looking Glass: Russian Women’s Wisdom by Linda A. M. Perry and Patricia
Grotesque Revisited. As Russian society passes Geist is about personal and public silencing — and
through a stage of wrenching transformation, the more importantly, about breaking those silences.
| vision of its writers has veered toward the absurd. Includes 20 original essays in which women break
| Even those who work in a realist style enrich their the silence that has robbed them of a history and
stories with fantasy and a sense of the impossible. denied them posterity. These essays interweave the
Fabulous! ($14.95, 5-7172-0029-3.) Also of interest: past and the present, the personal and the political,
GLAS 3: Women’s View, Russian woman bloodied but the excitement and the devastation, and the strug-
unbowed, and GLAS 13: A Will and a Way, new gles and victories of women’s experiences. $24.95
women’s writing. Worth extra effort to stock! 20%, pb, 1-55934-716-3.
short discount. Distributed in the U.S. by
Ivan R. Dee, Inc., 1332 North Halsted
Street, Chicago IL 60622; 312-787-6262, 800-
634-0226, fax 312-787-6269.
Reconstructing Gender: A Multi-
cultural Anthology edited by Estelle Disch
collects an awesome combination of essays.
Including everything from Pat Parker’s
For the White Person Who Wants to Know
How to be My Friend” to John Stolten-
berg’s “How Men Have (a) Sex,” from
Paula Gunn Allen’s “Angry Women Are
Building: Issues and Struggles Facing
American Women Today” to Helen Zia’s
| Where Race and Gender Meet: Racism,
| Hate Crimes, and Pornography,” from
R Tu ot wh r”S ide tol ’s La“ uC ro an fl Hi ec rt shw ei yt ’h si n “Cth he osIv io nr gy Earthwalking
| e o “The Cauldron of Sol kl d Dw ae nn c” rb sy (M Fo rn oi g,c a Lt$ d.j )d 6, in
| y e
Disability,” this is a wonderful collection! September/ October 1997
me
Volume 20 Number 3
85Fe Vm ii lln ai s 2 St 0 % eB tfo ,o o r k Ms 5 o+t u-o nr tMe aa iy nfN i e e Vw l ids wP u Cb Al is 9h 4i 0n 4g C 8o 0m 0p -a 4n 33y -, 1 271 92 .8 0 Tf 1 h-r e5o 5m 9 3 o3 no - t1n r7e a9 r- y8 o .f ) idt W ,h ae t Wc hh ap te 'r fi soo r d U’ t phs e Wck ioe m ty p ha n Yw i o.e . ui . n_, . $24 95
1 ;
t re e C K e s to 7: 4
a rhyming book featuring a multicul ‘ TP taRy
epo aer ey" T ew eo e W ow fo i r te l dr id s vs e o T rf r s W u ia M tel i ys x dA ae tl ‘ oe no : e x4 p2c lS o oh rwo kr ert ie t eS wrt ho se ar d ti i e gts oe, i d t bE mbs e eys y aa o ny D ns si d, a ne z& a 8CM 3ha 6it -lt 6d 6r 6C e 0i nb .’u sl Aa l. B s o oo ( k$ s a1 ,6 v . a9 iP5 l, O a bl1 B e- o 5 x5 f 9 r3 5 o3 2 m,- 21 M B2 a &d- Ti3 .s, o) n n5 W0 I9 1 w 5y 3F 71so 9oe ,? 6T 0eb gsy .
a in two worlds.” These writings examine a
i- the _w o ar nl dd s dew fe new al ak nein an od deth re ow fo r ml id gs atth ia ot ,w al
y _ i w r r n in
ain t ot te h he des tt hg i eo n mi a etn ig o n ai s.s ” t ih Ie n edj xio pvu eir rdn u ie ay ml ei ni t tt ys ae l tf i, w oi ntra ht ih n we ir t hht ieh a n g r wa o rr iur tpi v na gl is conveX yi Xi t’ hs mM oa or dv el os Hoof ga KF ol no gat i dn ug inC i gt y el 1o 80u ,e nn tt | l olt
t n i s e f n r t he 9 ;
n e r s
enres and the making of new ones. Looks good. $17.95 period of Chinese and British §Overnmental ne *
0-89823-149-3. New Rivers Press, 420 North 5th tions surrounding Hong Kong’s fate. These, a
pb,
Street #910, Minneapolis MN 55401; 612-339-7114. stories weave together the old and the new, the real
Distributed by Consortium, also available through BP. and the fantastic, Western culture and local Perce
tion to create narratives of the hopes, angers and fears |
Sweet Words So Brave: The Story of African which gripped the people of Hong Kong during this
American Literature by Barbara K. Curry and James crucial period of their history. Especially pertinent
Michael Brodie, illustrations by Jerry Butler, is a gor- since the July 1 passing of control to China. $14.95 pb,
geous book chronicling African American Literature 962-7255-18-1. I loved Xi Xi’s A Girl Like Me and Other
for kids. The photos and vibrant illustrations draw Stories. (See 20#1, page 99 for review.) Renditions |
readers into the world of African American Literature Paperbacks, Research Centre for Translation, Chinese
from the earliest slave narrative to the present. Sweet University of Hong Kong, Shatin, NT, Hong Kong,
Words So Brave is divided chronologically into five
China. Distributed by Cheng & Tsui Co., 25 West
time periods: slavery, the Harlem Renaissance, the Street, Boston MA 02111; 617-426-6074.
post-World War Two era, the civil rights era, and the
present; each chapter focuses on a few of the most The eight wonderful stories in The Shooting
important writers of the time, and ends with excerpts
Gallery by Yuko Tsushima, translated by Geraldine
Ahilarious story of the pursuit
Of lesbian love in the late '90s
aavaillable yfrom
“Three generations of contemporary
lesbians are gently but firmly skewe
in this delightful Manhattan romp:
f
Wilson, a
—Barbara
if You Had a Family and Blue Win
September/ October 1997 ‘)
86 Volume 20 NFeminist Bookstore News
ay urt, are based in women’s realities that are rec-
| Harco ae the world over. A young single mother on FebresI ,n tU rr anb sa ln tedO ra fc rol me s thes to Srie as nb 7
a
e ee “oe
| o ag nn i Bze e t to onth se s ae na ds id he er c ro em se es n tmf eac ne t to o f f ha ec re cw hi it lh d reh ne ;r and Lydia Platon Lazaro, Santos-Febres draws the
| ‘own an waits up for her teenage daughter, refusing r le oa nd ge ir n gli yn to at a Kew to yr ’l sd Bp eu al us ti yn g Paw ri lt oh r ade ls oi nr ge s, w itW he tg hel an gc ire l
pa St to herself that her child has run away; and in “Broken Strand,” imagining it to be the crown of
| e tt eh e lr if e w ino m ta hen fat cr ei es o f d he es rp er ca ont te rl oy l lito n g ho ml ad l eo nt ro el aa t ivp er si .- c ar ne da ti wo en , brt ehe thh ei gh he es rt dg ao yal reto mw sh ic oh ao tn te ndc io nu gld tha es pi Sr ke y,
a d a f e
oF sushima is a subtle, surprising, elegant writer who Academy of Looks and Beauty in Miami; we share
| courageously tells unexpected truths about an unfa- terrible impatience of the woman in “Abnel, Sweet
| miliar, yet recognizable world.” —Margaret Drabble. Nightmare” as she desperately tries to get home in
95 pb, 0-8112-1356-0. New Directions, 80 Eighth time to watch her neighbor undress for his afternoon
| Avenue, New York NY 10011. Available from BP. shower. Santos-Febres presents a rich vital world, a
'
world which refuses to be limited to the realm of the
l| ie ‘ The 14 stories in The Stars, The Earth, The River socially acceptable. Advertised in the Feminist Book-
i) b4 y Le Minh Khue, translated by Bac Hoai Tran and store Network Fall Catalog. $15.95 pb, 1-57129-034-6.
| Dana Sachs, edited by Wayne Karlin, give the reader a Lumen Editions, Brookline Books, PO Box 1047,
| view of life in Vietnam before, during and after the war Cambridge MA 02238. Distributed by Consortium.
with the U.S. Khue explores love and war, the tangles of
family relationships, and the complexities of post-war
} life, “[Khue’s] stories convey witha rare combination of
| compassion and objectivity the dual nature of a griev-
‘ously damaged country and its people’s stoic Two Badges: The Lives of Mona Ruiz by Mona
“tesilience.” —Kirkus Reviews. A valuable collection of Ruiz with Geoff Boucher is a tale of one woman’s
stories. A must carry! $12.95 pb, 1-880684-47-0. Curb- private war to find her own identity and escape the
stone Press, 321 Jackson Street, Willimantic CT 06226, pull of the street gangs that have carved her barrio
_ 203-423-5110. Distributed by Consortium. into turfs where one misstep can lead to violence. This
account traces the crests and dips in the path of Ruiz’
Tha
__ InMy Lucky Face by May-Lee Chai, Lin Jun has life — a life that forced her to assume contradicting
| ‘verything a woman in China could hope for, but her roles: gang chola, high school drop-out, battered wife,
| Marriage isn’t working, her son is at a state boarding welfare mother, student, disowned daughter, and
| School, and her impressive TV set does not satisfy her. olicewoman. The end? A success story: $22.95 cl,
i
ae she begins interpreting for an American 1-55885-202-6.
4 ae Lin J un suddenly opens her eyes to other A celebration of the female spirit connects the
| a ilities. “Call it a ‘second-coming-of-age’ story, in seven stories about Hispanic women In A Matter of
ees ch ta es set tl e pd rem va ir or ui se ld w uno em xa an inr eea ds se lis fs e,e s ina dn id th le ibn bP rr ii dd ee a onn d heO rt he hr nS et yo mri oe os by weN ii gc hh so la ts ha e M pro ih cr e. ah it m us
e c u a y m f n g - o n
| e uan d Cot nh se tn ais ne tl sf .- ”f ul —f Li il bl rme an rt as ous rh ne l.l ea $v 2e 3s cb l,e h 1i -n 5d 94h 7e -r wpa hy to ash on bo er he rr jem ca tr er di a bg ye hV eO rW S; l ona g -i tis me e a a xe , :
| no, 2 r y J a 6 o h e n e
- a ies oho 97P 1r .e ss, A v8 a5 i3 l aB br leo ad fw ra oy m Ne BPw , Y Bo &r Tk , NY I ng1 r0 a0 m0 ,3 e wn ht ie lr es ont he h ols iu dp ae yr n ia nt u a ra rl e motto e s ve ie lk l agee n in e ekr e a an nd e aL i Fa
__-“zine, Bookmen, Booksource. Republic, finds herself at a drag queen show
September/ October 1997
~"me 20 Number 3 87New Ss
minist Bookstore
- lleng tse ,d set o er ee rd te if ii on nne t rh ke nj do y gof nb de i rn eg f Fem ia ele .. $C M 2o hel 9yrl .sli 9,en s , H co lE ,d d gw e -O, 4i d 7g 6J -e a m .a )SD i ea c nn a Lt oi erc sK .a it n i, c a ni iZ de , se dE d -ge Bl l, M, ap rBer y hl aGj : )
uvs e a A t i n n N a e w o aY a lo a C i t y e S o e a R 5 a n d l 4 i v e 9 i b aG a n e e s l ml n
peat fendi at embrece ho b,n or 1, - 55a 8 85-177-1.a . Writers includes Dorothy Allison, p; ual Fiction
we death. $11.95 pb,
c; oy ts a Press, Unive Ar vs ai it ly blof H fo ru os mt on BP, . Hous PRi at ta r iciM aa e HiB gr ho sw mn i, t h, Wil Sl aa r ahC ath Oe rr n, e R Ja ewd ea n ne atnes ;
a e
t 0o n 1X 77204; 7 713-743-2841. McCullers, Gertrude Stein, Sylvia 7 C
The Women Writers of English and Their Works W ($a 1r 4n .e 9r 5, pbJ , ea 0n -e 7t 9t 1e 0 -4W 4i 9n 4t -e 7;r so $n 2 9.9a 5n d «1, V gir ig gi n 2 a Wool
fse er ai te us r ese di a te wd i deb -y raH na gr eo l o fd maB tl eo ro im aial lss ha fs rS omf t ou dar i fcft ei crtl ie nas g. tiE doa ec o h - American Women Writers includes DiaF na : ChaS ni an |
on the author Edith Maude Eaton and Winnefred &,
logical viewpoints
biographical information, a wide selection of excerpts Tarahata Hagedorn, Maxine Hong KE ia nto gn s, t o Jessica
and complete bibliographies. They all look good. ' Kogawa, Bharati Mukherjee, Amy Tan a
Ty-Casper, Jade Snow Wong, Hisaye Yamamoig ail
Caribbean Women Writers includes Phyllis
Shand Allfrey, Erna Brodber, Michelle Cliff, Merle Wakako Yamauchi. ($16.95 pb, 0-7910-4491.9. one
cl, -4475-0.) American Women Fiction Writers
C> Circlet Press 1997 1900-1960 includes Pauline Elizabeth Hopkins, Zora
Neale Hurston, Shirley Jackson, Nella Larsen, Mary
Distributed to the trade by InBook/LPC Group McCarthy, Carson McCullers, Margaret Mitchel]
Order toll-free (800) 626-4330 Anais Nin, Flannery O’Connor, Dorothy Parker
and Ann Petry. ($14.95 pb, 0-7910-4497-1, $79.95 dl,
Cherished Blood
-4481-5.)
Cecilia Tan, editor 40% returnable; 50% nonreturnable. Chelsea
$12.95 Trade Paper ISBN 1-885865-18-X House Publishers, 1974 Sproul Road #400, PO Box
914, Broomall PA 19008; 610-353-5166. Available
This is the third anthology of erotic through B&T, Ingram.
vampire stories in our top-selling
series. Lesbian, gay, bisexual,
transgendered, and kinky, these
vampires learn not only how to live
among us, but how to love. They
Distant Sisters: The Women I Left Behind by
struggle for freedom and passion in
a benighted world. Judith Rotem, translated by Shira Atik, with a fore:
word by Nessa Rapoport. Ten years after the author |”
left the ultra-Orthodox community in Israel she grew
Fetish Fantastic up in, Rotem returned to try to understand her fo
life, in which women are expected both to ie
$12.95 TradC ee ci Pl ai pa Ta In S, BNe dit 1o -r wh ho iu ls ee fu tl o mf ench i sld tr ue dn Ta on rd h.t o Rs ou tp ep mor t nt the ei rr ve ier we
e r 8 85865-13-9 h e y a i ed
Tales of power and lust from futur- [jl |) ens of Orthodox women (often wither |
nti ts et wi ec wt eo dts iu err ssr c,e oa vl , edt dh ai s tc ako lonl enol te sc Rt uio b,n hRb r si n eig tecs fB ALA bh eu edds b a dn ad ts i’ na p p acr ro ev ga al r) a gnb o su mt es ru imc aih scat tto ip i nsc s e e63e
io og :n t yCh r r i le s su c h a es rnw Ge l rl y- B no w w n .e n S / M e wn if i- naa nn ed ai tnv u o g r th c ut ee de, er s , nh i l m d e wr n e on i, p a u ,“ s e u a, tp ee w lo k im ev a n ih ci n a oy oi k 4s , e 4g a dp
l h a r a J a s i s T i h s i# : | t w w e m s d o d m e n t h r r e j o m F e . 95 l
tt ih : oe n l ae na dd in sg e xue ad lg e fio cf t iob no ,t h scie nce fic- Hd l/ | I asr teh Ir a y 0-8276-0583-8. The Jewish Publication eer
Chestnut Street, Philadelphia PA 19103; 8
September /October 1997 Available through BP, Bookazine.
Volume 20 N
88Feminist Bookstore News
a Rights Watch is developing books on human construction of HIV/AIDS affect policy and public
Be cate in the U.S. The first is Modern perception of AIDS more strongly than activist Biot
ital of Human Rights? Abuses in the State of $19.95 pb, 1-56023-090-8; $34.95 cl, 0-7890-0004-0,
4 +4. Itincludes chapters on police abuse, the death Nobody’s Children: Orphans of the HIV
ty, race and drug law enforcement, treatment of Epidemic by Steven F. Dansky, CSW, shows how
ners, sexual abuse of women prisoners, children caregivers and the community can meet the ever-in-
confinement, lesbian and gay rights (from laws and creasing social and economic needs of these children
Jation to hate crimes and employment discrimina- and their new families. $14.95 pb, 1-56023-923-9;
a), and attacks on freedom of expression. As always $39.95 cl, -885-0.
sir books are solid and disturbing but, oh, so impor- Harrington Park Press, an imprint of The
it $15 pb, 1-56432-169-X. Human Rights Watch, 485 Haworth Press, Inc., 10 Alice Street, Binghamton NY
Avenue, New York NY 10017; 212-986-1980. Avail- 13904. Available from BP.
e direct only: 10% for 1-4; 30% for 5-49; returnable.
Orphan Girl: The Memoir of a Chicago Bag
+
Tha wo Spirit People: American Indian Lesbian Lady as told to Jane Hertenstein. This is the story of a
en and Gay Men edited by Lester B. Brown, depression-era farm girl’s journey as an abused child,
. contains social science research exploration into as a battered wife, and later as a mental patient in a
lives of American Indian lesbians and gay men. state hospital. Towards the end of her life Marie recov-
chapters emphasize American Indian spirituality, ers a repressed memory and makes a startling
tnew perspectives, and provide readers with a discovery about her past. Disturbing, valuable. $12.95
ing understanding of the place of lesbian, gay, pb, 0-940895-39-0. Cornerstone Press Chicago, 939
d bisexual Indians within American Indian culture West Wilson Avenue, Chicago IL 60640. Available
American society. $12.95 pb, 1-56023-089-4; $29.95 from Ingram, B&T, Spring Arbor, Riverside, and in
el, 0-7890-0003-2. Canada through Beacon Distributing.
_ In Experiencing Abortion: A Weaving of
Women’s Words author Eve Kushner “compassion-
and insightfully orchestrates a rich chorus of
men’s voices in a groundbreaking experiential
Message to the Nurse of Dreams collects short
idy of abortion. She takes us beyond political and
fiction by Lisa Sandlin about growing up in the late
i xc a ll i fj e ud eg vm ee nn tt .s .. [ain nt do ] th se h or wa sw r ue sa li tt hi ee s ho ef alt ih nis g co am n- d 60s ina Texas oil town soaked with Gulf winds, where
pp eo rw iee nr ci en , g unth da et r sc ta an n dic no gm e itf , r ao nm d w so ham re in ng f ita c wi in tg h t oh te hi -r e trv ye r —y k ai d t iw ma es wo hn ee n ge Bn le ar ca kt i ao nn d r we hm io tv ee d k idf sr o wm e rt eh e mc io xu en d-
e- ieA ciw ngo n ad be or rtf iu ol fr oe so thu er c pe opb lo eo k hof or ovw o tm he emn t to hg ee yt h we er, ha asl f d- ig fr fo ew rn e, h aa sl f thc eh yi ’l dd re bn e, tr ly ei dn g to ed le ic ei vd e ali lf
e n to b e
r n n, r e w l e , r e nt
or t ht h te hp er mo .f ” es —s Cio an ra ol ls a S.n d B ep ca ker ra ,p ro Pf he .Ds .s io Pn ra ol fs e ssw oo rr k- of t Ph re ei sr s , l 2i 7ve 0s 9. L$ o1 u1 i. s9 v5 i llep ,b , El 0- P 9 a3 s8 o 31 T7 X- 2 77 9- 9X 3. 0 ; C 8i 0n 0c -o 5 66P -u 9n 0t 7o 2s .
an Development, California State University. Distributed by Consortium.
WaA5 ycp eb , ne1 d- 5 6 i0 c2 h3 M- i9 tc2 h1 eM- a2 ir; si$ tAn4 i.9 . ul9 a5 nc atl t, l,o- 9 0 P2 gh- o.6 v.
tnSe l af jbS yt o nr tga hsg e & rO idt h e Mr S t So sr pti uee nrs fb ry gM ha tbr heoy stoH uoe fl se .n
S st di iv iti s wm b y a n d h a e l g a H ti iz l ola e li t n i Dn . rt nh a ee d d rA e ssI ocsD ieS as S “t We hf aa i ak or i e se to sm ti on e s i a d re w | e n n e o mi r h fd of
h n t y e d l
September/ October 1997
0 Number 3 89FeministBc kstore News
inist Boo.
heart.” —Louise Erdrich. $22.50, 1-555
97-2187 ~ |
. Cau
NEW DIRECTIONS wolf Press, 2402 University Avenue #2 03, St. Pau} wa |
55114; 612-641-0077. Distributed byC
Fall ‘(97 Winter ‘98
: Outstanding Lives: Profiles of Lesbians
URIEL SPARK
b iO spe en eua n7 t ep gut im bo o efa tf lr e i dvt s Dh e he la e a —o dm n u dea s b Te e i hs fM n et ou n o rr or ei i v Ne e asl etN ’ wiie s n v — w e Yt( ohT 1 re B0& kh r e i tUoC Tif n s i o P i h ml r ta eil e sm e nec oet v Be e oo d f oe k i M stiS s St R.s o O e r ve ai iJ ee ee es wea. .n s vM l d a ii c pee tv e pm aen n ls ro d on aasac sctt ne h hrdl e t e a hb t el tr a e oaa c b pt be uce l t i bos hs o l em ig p ci r7 dl 0 m ai i p f p —s fo hc h es yo rm e an ee ndt n —n d ce t em b s ip y tn b h o eer ws b to ha o c tw ir t i re chy e aet h d y n i. t e i t in m ht oTd eh nhbi e aey e p ]; rP a ihd e v alu a, pa o t l nes i P irW aOh idfo T i gaa a ls n n e . ‘g a y s
e
$24.95 cl., 0-8112-1 367-6. Sept. ‘97 which the proper method of writing biography n
ci
simply to relate the facts of public life. Our ee Was
DENISE LEVERTOV Seajay is profiled as well as Nancy Bereano, Robe ol
Sands of the Well. First published by ND cloth- Achtenberg, Paula Gunn Allen, Dorothy Allison Pa
bound in 1996, this collection of new work shows Califia, Debra Chasnoff, k.d. lang, Phyllis Lyon
the poet at the height of her considerable POWERS: Del Martin, Pratibha Parmar, Adrienne Rich, Marlon
“Here she relocates her quiet ecstatic meditation of Riggs, Barbara Smith, Kitty Tsui, Urvashi Vaid and
blessing and burden, gift and given, to a Pacific lots of others. Foreword by Jewelle L. Gomez; Michael
Northwest coast and range landscape of magisterial, Bronski, consulting editor; Christa Brelin and Michag|
Examiner-Chronicle.
consoling beauty.’ — The SF
J. Tyrkus, editors. $24.95 cl, 1-57859-008-6. 47%. Visible
$9.95 pbk., 0-8112-1361-7. Feb. *98 Ink Press, 835 Penobscot Bldg., 645 Griswold Street
& New Directions is dist. by W. W. Norton Detroit MI 48226; 800-776-6265. Available from Bét,
a
BP, Ingram.
everyday life, they are carefully constructed, lovingly
sewn, and touched here and there by the miraculous. In Out With It: Gay and Straight Teens Write
Mary Helen Stefaniak knows her craft, and she is a about Homosexuality by Youth Communication,
wonderfully human writer.” —Sharon Oard Warner edited by Philip Kay, Andrea Estepa, and Al Desetta,
(Learning to Dance and Other Stories). $14.95 pb, teens explore what it is to be gay, what it’s like to be:
0-89823-183-3. New Rivers Press, 420 North 5th Street gay, having gay friends and family members, coming |
#910, Minneapolis MN 55401; 612-339-7114. Distrib- out, homophobia, gender benders, and more. |
uted by Consortium, also available through BP. Includes notes and a list of resources for teachers. Very
honest, diverse. A great magazine-type booklet — |
worth going to the extra effort to stock. It won’t bring
|
in sales and make a lot of money and it will probably ul
1h
I
sit around, but when the lucky kid finds it you'll feel
In Rainy Lake Mary Francois Rockcastle invites great! 40%. $8 pb, saddle-stitched. Youth Communl”
the reader to savor the sights, sounds, and smells of cation, 144 W. 27th St. 8R, New York NY —
Summer at her parents’ lopsided lakefront cabin dur- 212-242-3270. Available from Alamo Square. |,
ing the 1960s. Danielle Fillian paints a sensitive and
s ww m§e ui n aw ns i ri ie n twm g yim af ni na f gdnm i r ii g s sl t, y l eeow p avao de rtr i. fot ue cr er a B - bi us nt tk i ano i rw gf n ei sg rts ,, hu om n ttm he h iee w r eis f n hr t ei r if le vi u tinl s el d i re s od eh n dii w gpi hos vt f t, ash ta ahf men tl d iy o- V nf ia i c ms d t ch e eii oe a nn mtg -n E —oD a fi cs doc smo mC ln p al rt uo te ats ,n nee dt r s t uo p is r ydot ,yh a g e h r u a bm imM soa m erc e xoh er uei u rn ls e w .: h m oe hmT eo d we eic hf ih r oi n e so b p pyh ti ehE fel l ei l rsa e tn e rea on td y P”7 ||
r o st th l y m l i e f t s h s c l r c o v e t u l n e r e n g i n s S s i |
r d f n n a — r e
the ee olan edge the harsh realities of all-black and eh ats her own computer =e cal
and bold, Mary Ramee emesis oats! tender | consulting business at a live-work Wee |
a y Make catches the | Francisco's multimedia gulch. Ullman takes"
90Feminist
Bookstore
News
seneanoeecSem
tty romp through the intersecting worlds of
| ona wi
“cypherpunks, Sexy anarchocapitalists, old commies,
Bh ghosts of Wall Street. $10.95 pb, 0-87286-332-8;
21.95 dl, -337-9. City Lights Publishers, 261 Colum- work will be toward
} | | bus Avenue, San Francisco CA 94133; 415-362-1901. bleeding, and helpin
| | pistributed by BP and available from Koen. feminist, I am comp
if themselves from social taboos that enforce a negative
The near-future narrator of Jacqueline Harpman’s
| [Who Have Never Known Men is a nameless female
“whose memories begin with her imprisonment in a
“cage, the youngest of 39 other women, surrounded by
| uniformed men. Eventually the captives escape and
I spend the rest of their lives wandering across an un-
| known land. “Every incident in this riveting narrative City CA 94061; 415-368-3553.
| is significant... Carefully crafted, this novel is both
} unusual and thought-provoking.” —Library Journal. Featuring wholesome ingredients such as fresh
$22 cl, 1-888363-43-6. Seven Stories Press, 632 Broad- herbs, root vegetables, nuts, and fish, and inspired by
Way, Seventh Floor, New York NY 10012; 212-995-0908.
| Distributed by PGW.
NEW FROM CITY LIGHTS BOOKS
_ Iwo fun gift books for yourself, friends, and loved
“ones are Annie Sprinkle’s XXXOOO: Love and Kisses
from Annie Sprinkle Volume 1 and Volume 2, edited
by Katharine Gates and Camille Adams. Each book
Debut from Sara Chin.
| Contains 30 “post-porn” postcards that are perforated
Asia, America, and
| you can send Sprinkle’s sex positive images to any- the movies come
together in this wry
| one. “in my 20+ years in the sex industry I’ve been in
collection of stories.
'00 many films, pin-up photos and videos to mention.
$9.95 ISBN: 0-87286-331-X
| a thinking about how many women and men may
. a looking at a picture of me. Whether I'm
Fe ssin “les in front of the camera I really enjoy Journeys to Four Continents
Boind 1, : oe world of sexuality.” —Annie TB ry u eJ -la in fi en e a dP veo nm tm uy re sV e og fa . AMLUNG KING
a Foss . these will be hot sellers! Volume 1: $11.95
a woman traveling THE
Bee o5 * 00-7; Volume 2: $11.95 pb, -01-5. Gates of in search of knowledge
SERPENT
d xington Avenue #118, New York NY 10021; and sites where
) 21;
. 12879-5016, Available through BP. female power
was worshipped.
g
Ne ag Sager’s collection of poetry, prose, jour- $12.95 ISBN: 0-87286-327-1
abf ll ee ns tt hr ru al M ua s ingsar t ana db o Du at r k m Men os ot nr ua Dt ri eo an m, s , L isu n aa vc aiy l: - ‘Availa Sb ule tef rro rm nw eh ao nl e Csa ol me prs a nyan d at =ou 8r 0 0p -r 2i 7m 4a -r 7y 8 2d 6i stribu tor,
b a
Sugh the author. The words and images
Onicle
her journey toward self acceptance as a
September/ October 1997
91FF ee mm ii nn ii ss tt BBooookkssttso re N
ews remedy and dosage. She shows Sa
a variety of ethnici CH” isine the ebor oke c ai rp ee s d eli in < c ioC ua st hy as d mi es nc oo pm af uo sr ets , t ih na ct lum da iny g a mri e: s ne s tb re uf ao lr e, irrd eu grt ur i le n aa r itio To an ft e,
& flashes, night sweats, and aching joints. i es
we person is treated, not just isolated s m
Cilantro Soup, pb, 0-89281-648-1. Healing Arts Press
Yam
o aee c Ca Ab b ed a g 1eC 0a 5p m ;‘e 5os r a rs 4l e, Sa 1. d , S 5$ 3nm S 1 7do p 6 k i . 3cy 9 7Sy 5 .P p te b ,c A, a vn i0 lx- aH 8 ba 1 ll 1 ei F8 b l- ou f1 ot r5 o,4 m0p - =i 4e . I esn tn ee rr VT Tr ad 0i 5t 7i 6o 7n ;s 8I 0n 2t -e 7r 6n 7a -t 3i 1o 7n 4a .l , DO in ste r ibPa yr kSt Teet, R
ne s ea a n e d 8 e c o 3t 0re e aS . t h r BP,
i
e 9 4 5 - -
B&T, Ingram.
In Homeopathy for Menopause Beth MacEoin A Woman’s Guide to Tantra Yoga by Vint
ole vix n ep i rl n aa g li ln s s t st e yh pe m- pbb y ta -s osi mtc es p pof i cth h te uo rm ee p ro o ap c na e dt s sh y s eo lff e o cr t c iob nne gsg iin d tn e hee r r is n p, g r oa pt eh re sM pt hc e iC p l l ou i sr n oe s pt hru yis c ti aa o nn ds s o l pi a rd n ad ctp r ica clc eet ai r oc fa l i tl al nug tsu rti ard ae t y i oo go n af sf er —toi n eg ax dp als pat tie enp d b y E. e t o
the specific physical, emotional, and spiritual cop.
cerns of women. Includes methods of meditation and
Feminist Perspectives mantras, breathing and relaxation, yoga positions,
and visualization and affirmations. Looks like a great |
introduction to tantra yoga. $14 pb, 1-57731-017-9,
The Redemption of the New World Library, 14 Pamaron Way, Novato CA |
94949; 800-97-BOOKS. Distributed by PGW.
Feminine Erotic Soul
“Dr. Rachel Hillel brings women’s private sexu-
In Departure, by Janet Stevenson, it is 1851 and
al experiences and fantasies into the area of pub- Amanda Bright sets sail around the world with her
lic discourse, impelling women to question tra- husband, the captain of a merchant ship filled with
ditional, in-grained taboos and to claim the trade goods. Warned that it was no place fora woman,
desires of their bodies.” —Dr. Betty De Shong she instead finds a challenging new world, one she
Meador, Uncursing the Dark (Paper $16.95) discovers she has a talent for. “In its wisdom, its
Due out in November oe understanding of the past and the human heart, it
becomes an urgently contemporary novel of sub-
Sophia: Aspects of the Divine stance.” —Tillie Olsen. “An unusual and compelling
Feminine, Past and Present novel, a beautifully crafted tale of adventure and the
Dr. Susanne Schaup explores how Sophia — _ psychological drama of self-discovery. Highly ae
© aspect of God—has been lost m Ble un ed ed H. e” r on— Li Pb ur ba lr iy s hiJ nou gr ,n al. 2 44$ 51 04 .95 N Wp b, H0 a- n9 s36 e0 n8 5- P3/ S i
‘Aristian tradition. She searches Hillsboro OR 97124; 503-621-3911. Distribute y
the Old Testament
and Consortium.
:
Eastern religions. l (a Pn a perh is $t 1o 6r .y 9, 5 ) as well as :j stille
Woodswoman III by Anne ci
ut in September (Woodswoman, Beyond Black Bear Lake nef
Anne’s third decade in the wilderness: she ie :
dogs) encounter a perilous tornado, addres of
environmental controversies, experience
guiding, and the challenge of bein
woodswoman. ($15 pb, 0-9632846-1- Be.
graphed copies of her earlier books Woo
September / October 1997
Volume 20 N
92Feminist Bookstore News
S aeyond Black Bear Lake, The Wilderness World of Anne elega:n t writing. ge I ddc id not, ; did no t, want this book to
| 3 astille, Mama Poc, and Women and Wilderness are end. —Naomi Shihab Nye. $16 pb, 1-886913-09-9.
i n Boo nw a Iv na ci .,l ab Rl De 2t hr Wo eu sg th orW te st of 12t 9h 9e Wi 5n 18d 96P 2u -b 8l 2i 9c 5a .- H 55u 1n 0g 5;r y 61M 2i -n 69d -P 7r 0e 3s 8s ., 1 D6 i4 s8 rG ibr ua tn ed A bv ye n Cu oe n, oS rt t. iP ua mu .l
s , , p N Y 3 ; - MN 9 t d s
| "40% discount.
Listening for Cactus poems by Mary McGinnis.
| In Tricia Bauer’s first novel Boondocking, “To be a true poet one must acquire the skill of listen-
| Sylvia and Clayton Vaeth, nearing retirement age, ing beyond the sound spectrum assigned to humans.
bandon life in the working-class Maryland sub- These poems reveal an adept listener, one who has
‘urbs and take to the road in a travel trailer to hide been listening to time move through cactus, the sky,
and protect their granddaughter, Rita, from her lovers, and all manner of tender and funny human
er. Melvin, Rita’s father, in a drug-induced acci- behavior. I have been listening to the poems of Mary
nt, was responsible for the death of Rita’s mother. McGinnis for many years. They continue to move me
scene after scene, Bauer captures the resilience to listen.” —Joy Harjo. $14 pb, 0-9644196-4-5; audio
and gutsy determination of the Vaeths as they cassette of author reading this work in its entirety
sscross the country’s backroads and camp- $5.95, 0-9644196-8-8. Sherman Asher Publishing, PO
‘grounds, with Melvin not far behind. $21.95 cl, Box 2853, Santa Fe NM 87504; 888-984-2686. Available
| 1-882593-19-7. Bridge Works, Box 1798, Bridge- from B&T, Ingram. é
hampton NY 11932. Available from Ingram, B&T,
National Book Network; 800-462-6420.
The USS. hardcover corporate edition of Perfec-
tion of the Morning: A Woman’s Awakening in Well Well Reality is a poetry collaboration
wfN Mbl eia ai stt rPn uhu rtg pi yr , en e lw asa ala rb is y y aae ea s.aS n r wth e ewa sv eo lur ie htf o r n Wp ahu lp ab iB ilr su ni ido eht c rm ra a unl o t gva t i ao ee rn ad eeg i. o rt hBa ldu inl at o cd aa, ts et ci w .n tai ce n n hC hteet mac o n ar a hp o d wo u na htr og, oa rht ’o ae li f wt ow is p ea rh r usu ai f nn ahe- -tt a b WB s se ru p et gr ra ew sn rn eoie n nne i ag n n g sD nR te w.tto rc .yh has ioek nm ua sp iP r er i lre ie is ns Ro neo) epd gn. a vn eaefId gt lr ao ei s tK m ,e gc oi eo n1t om .9h hp 6 o8 hir W i sa 3s it nesl to e d teed ir t th o kbe o mp f 0tudp -s swer 9e( ?e 4evp is 2tu e e 9b n n l 9t hoi 6. geps hh o We Ue dher -m as l 9eis rs, l
| t eas t a te lS a yPl d l ei ae e mb f nt yr i s nn i s ipb h rPo r e loi th o r mn f ag i e e ss cs r tt v ht ee g s oc i r ns o o a rn e c m lr bl a t a d m i n ea c tto d e om un i s m cr o t p p ae a se bp o fe r tr ta e. t t I ri ln eH d al u u ihi ir tn e f a r e n t nr mc ee hy sc a nt h c e M a n t i n y m n 3g rt o 0d ds leo h wp t t e he ou hnil dm tl eo e t p es hr o, dR e ro e er tlu a , hm “l s i.i a n ad w n co f hd os di e c me a n o na a t gr m ahd c pb i oi r o n de n dos ut me m psd a mr o r e ss ii /a n h ae t r wi i u es o ta w o an eg tr n d te od e ob s 1s e e . K o w pJ n e p bm a a e o hc n ne e q e o m w p sd . r so aa e n dt de s T R p oi u pw n -ey 9bh o en t o a e ns u me e = e d r ,r e
n d p u l t g a d p o t s ia n ad o i g i p s , a n d i i - m i
i n g
l , s r s o e r b v s i $ ,
hi ter, guided by the prairie landscape and Nature’s
NA_ GTr.a e sM s n en g eSy pP o i Jo u r iw li ee t s:r w . a “Snt o N$ j o14 o um tro hpb nr , e pA1 i- ma r8 id o8 tv n6 e9 g in1 t3 u a- C nr1 re6 e- s ae1 . oai ln n ud t eh lOe j in dbo er w lt a ih y ot ubr syy O ec oto I sb cTe ohr me. e reB a vo d ido oik ut si lo yo n f fT t eoe an tPd u Go ro is i zn t en z-s e: g Ap wAb o ry l m l tb eto eaE ’ sl r ,se ni eem P “i a Tn s hS i t ei sk ee a vl noi tda l un u to m Cs e l bs a ui as d o e -fa
tt . r S s b s t y c i p i i a t e ubea
ey. Readers quickly become honorary citizens of Royet-Journoud. Peter vsonance that trav pllike
far north along with Jiles. Her compassionate
ght, humor, wisdom and care permeate her Septem/ bOcetorbe r 1997
93Feminist Books tore News
Our FBN checklist makes it easy
BOOKPEOPLE maximee ie z e sales f2 rom the EBN Cataly TeOrde dr e r ang
O>o:
Co-op reports provided free of charge upon
An Independent Bookseller
Booksellers Open warehouse for c ustomer pulling year r
00 OKPEOPLE Serving ~ o g 1Oun
|
E Bmp ol ooy ke pe- eOw on ped l e& O ip se ra hte ad ppy to help support local independent Winter Holiday warehouse pulling for extra discouy :
booksellers as we did at Books by the Bay and we are
Tired of listening to machines?
happy to help support your day-to-day bookselling
Talk to people at Bookpeople!
efforts as well.
We offer a wealth of services and benefits to bookstore
Bookpeople Wire!
professionals like yourself. Here are a few we would like
This includes:
to highlight.
Weekly Hot List of new titles sent to your store,
For details call customer service to speak to a Focus fax lists of titles for specialized markets,
Bookpeople Recommends lists of special t
knowledgeable Bookperson, not a machine.
Customer service/Orders 800-999-4650 7900 Edgewater
the body of this work like streams flowing mysteriously
The Feminine Mystic: Readings from Early
through words or rivers ‘slipping between atoms.’ In Spiritual Writers edited by Lynne M. Deming brings
the process the ungovernable darkness of language together writings by 13 women mystics — including
pours through.” $7, 0-942996-29-1, October. Teresa of Avila, Hildegard of Bingen, Julian of Norwich
40% for 5+. Post-Apollo Press, 35 Marie Street, and Catherine of Siena — arranged by themes such as
Sausalito CA 94965; 415-332-1458, fax 415-332-8045.
Available from SPD. rpr aa py he yr , ofG o ed a, c hj us mt yi sc te, i c vo sc ha et di so n, l iga hn td ov ni si tho en s. i nfA ls uh eo nr ct e s p ti t
“Inspired stories told shaped her life and work. $14.95 pb, 0-8298-1167-2 fot
universal lan BlackI n LiA bw ea rk ae t, Ar Mi as re, ia& Y.A c Rt i: ggA aW no am la ysn ei ss t o hr
i on c s t he s)
and future of the African American oF
explaining how social stratification has ee a
operation among Blacks and also has Yee e
dysfunctional class competition. Riggs Peel as
19th-century Black women’s club “a Oe Americ
model for approaching the crisis In Oe etter
striving for communal liberation and
$12.95 pb, 0-8298-1009-9.
East, Cleve
Pilgrim Press, 700 Prospect Avenue
land OH 44115. Available from Ingram.
C1- A8 8 93 43 71 19 2- .3 3 5. 14 -“ 5FF 5rr 9oo -g 8, 77Lt .d .’ Pp
0 9 p ap Lucy’s Eyes and Margaret's Dra g ton e: l liT nh ge a
_—_—...
September / October 1997 of Virgin Saints by Giselle Potter is
Volume 2 N :
94Feminist
Bookstore
News
Hives of 13 saints — young girls who chose purity <
| Pe t oppression and earned their halos the hard 94710;C on 5a 1r 0i - 64P 9r -es 2s 9, 4 02 ,5 50 D inth Street #101, Berkeley CA
istributed by PGW.
| way, proving no obstacle is too great for those with
i fai inthemselves and their beliefs. This is a beautiful
Marry Your Muse: Making a Lasti i
pook with a lot of gorgeous and entertaining illustra- ment to Your Creativity by Jan Phillips. Dee
“tions. $17.95 cl, 0-8118-1515-3. with the artist within and help your creative spirit
-_ InLoving Wanda Beaver Alison Baker has created soar! Working and would-be writers, photographers
| ‘ “o qur iri kg y in cal o mpc aha sr sa ict oe nr ,s i dn e liw ca atc ek y o bss ei rt vu aa tt iio on ns s. , aB ny d j su ug rg pl ri in sg - p wia li ln te fr is n, d m iu ns si pc iri aa tn is o n an id n tc hr ie sa ti jv oe y ouf so lk boi on k ev be ar sy e d fie ol nd
truths, Baker helps her characters find their way Phillips’ workshops for women. Affirmations, exer-
| back to equilibrium. $11.95 pb, 0-8118-1788-1. cises and the heartfelt stories of working artists help
| Chronicle Books, 85 Second Street, Sixth Floor, readers find and celebrate their own unique form of
Francisco CA 94105; 415-537-3730. Available from self-expression.” Advertised in the Feminist Book-
store Network Fall Catalog. $18 pb, 0-8356-0759-3.
Quest Books, 306 W. Geneva Road, PO Box 270, Whea-
ton IL 60189. National Book Network; 800-462-6420.
Success Redefined: Notes toa Working Woman by
| The third in Sue Patton Thoele’s series of medita- Lori Giovannoni, illustrated by Sara Steele. A beautiful
tion books for women, The Woman’s Book of Spirit: gift for women struggling with the difference between
“Meditations for the Thirsty Soul can help the reader making a living and creating one. A business consultant,
become connected to the divine spirit within them- Lori Giovannoni offers 60 “success principles,” with
Selves. Includes affirmations, insights, and practical thoughts for contemplation on facing pages. She empha-
‘advice. “A gentle, much-needed tool for finding the sizes the importance of friends, family, leisure and
dom within ourselves. Many thanks to Sue for spirituality in measuring success. An inspirational book
| ing us get back in touch with the valuable lessons that empowers women to define success on their own
Via hich our hearts, intuitions and spirits have to offer.” terms. Advertised in the Feminist Bookstore Network
| Tamara Traeder (Girlfriends; Invisible Bonds, Endur- Fall Catalog. $10.95 pb, 1-880913-26-7.
| 18 Ties). $9.95 pb, 1-57324-056-7. Also from Innisfree come two modern parables.
_,._ Hell's Belles: A Tribute to the Spitfires, Bad In The Woman Who Lost Her Heart: A Tale of
» and Steel Magnolias of the New and Old Reawakening by Susan O’Halloran and Susan ae
ie s: aa ed pi rt oe fd leb sy oS fe a 2l 0e B sa tl rl oe nn gg er oi ms ea tr wib hu ot e dw oh i nc oh jt : r oe rt nhe fut —u ris tt ui mc blh ier no gi ne o vel re ads w a th te e rfr ae lla sd ,e r c cHro an wa l ip ne gr i il no tu os
m i 0 w n t u e y
MMis ani e nm p ly u 3w 0t eo l kls -t Bbe err lee ldo t yp (ae n Ms d yo af m iS Alo ndu g-t eh lme oar unn ,n ew r Doeo rdm o.e n C ha As a lp lb t ie sei orn nsg s sda etn lok fr -m ksc a ov we ls — dn ga ev t i o g aa nt ddi ing ns uc roh tve ur e r r a w na cy e t h . et Ih nr ou agh Lt o hies pe teala e eg , e Pe -
© 0 e s a t hy , n e
t ($a 1g 2o .n 9i 5s t pbl ,e arn 1s 880to 13t h i -n 2k 5.a )b ou Int Th he er Woman Who
- 9 7-
information,
Distributor
For Small Press
please see page 81.
September/ October 1997
95‘nist Booksto re News
Feninist oo rming also by Yes: A Journal of Positive Futures Spring ,
Found Her nvV io ti ec de : A ha nkh le o of tT Dr e aa ln ats tf wro oe dth e die ffiers dentol y : si skn y ic s lll t su e .d me s i an a en w h iar c it nhi cl Ne 1 00 wo n wo YW oo m rm e ka nn Cs ih o tf ya f ,r e re a, e cx ic tA h a LH c Oh vi a ers n su g 2e
i t o t ii ab u r al B s d e y as p
H [h ree err l o ai tqn eue e ts oi t S i po en os p ! e k wh upo fs oe r em w hato t be I w bo er l ik ei vn eg ? a (g $a 1i 2n .s 9t 5 m pe b? , ei nis nto dyl at w ei h aon i c, l h e th ce s r h eaam tre eim sn b ge nr ets h we iro f w etW aio lm tm e h a .n as ndh A ar t eae tl a} en t t .s W Aon Nc d o™f io nm, y ti h e
How do I spea quarterly magazine aimed at Participation hope
P4 A- 88 i09 e1 )3- i1 s8 f 2r- 1e6 e 5. -) 2P r 4e 7s -s 4, 81 53 .6 R Dio su tm rf io br ut dR o ba yd , CoP nh si ol rad te il up mh .i a p so es ls fi -b oi rl gi at ni ie zs ngh ,a pp ine cn usb iy enep sr so ,m ot ei vn olg tia on nd a“ aa! ;
te
0 i l v u ag
dictability. Just the thing for days when you cg UNpre.
with any more bad news. $6 each, ISSN: ee
Yes, PO Box 10818, Bainbridge Island WA 9 sie
Who Will Hold Their Hands is the first in a 8 A4 r2 m- a0 d2 i1 l6 l. o ,D is Ft inr ei bu Pt re id nt ,b y NeBP w, De Ls eae fr ,t SM eo ro en n, d ipD io tn y a ae
pse ur bi les shof ds pe bc yi al is Js ou ue rs alo n ofw o Sm ace rn a Fn ed inp ie na ec e Wm ia sk di on mg Changes and Ubiquity in the U.S. and by Daas
i e t he n ed m . U se
It focuses on how women survive war, peacemak- in Canada.
ing, and the problems of global militarization. It also
includes stories by women in Russia who tried to Biopiracy: The Plunder of Nature and Knowl
stop the war in Chechnya, stories by women of edge by Vandana Shiva. “With her characteristic
Sarajevo and their vision of peace, an article about blend of analysis and passion, Vandana Shiva traces
the organized rape camps in Bosnia, articles about the continuity from the European colonization of
landmines in Cambodia, the Mothers of Liberia who “native” peoples...to the present appropriation of the
are fighting for disarmament, the backlash of natural resources they need for their physical and
women’s rights and affirmative action in the U.S., cultural survival. An important book that should be
playing Afrikan drums in the schools, and lots more. read by anyone wanting to understand the global
Striking visual presentation — and it comes with a threat posed by the technological transformations of
CD featuring 20 songs and stories on the same organisms, cells, and molecules and by their exploita-
theme. All in all, quite a package! 254 pages, 814" x tion for profit.” —Ruth Hubbard, Professor Emerita
1", perfect bound. $15 wholesale. Journal of Sacred of Biology, Harvard University. $13 pb, 0-89608-5554
Feminine Wisdom, 990 Enota Ave. #P-3, Gainesville South End Press, 116 Saint Botolph Street, Boston MA
GA 30501; 909-626-2333. 02115; 800-533-8478. Available from BP. ©
a
Books | Happened Upon at BEA
By Dorothy Holland iver
$12.95 tp, 1-57749-049-5. Fairview etn me
Brave N. + los : side Avenue S, Minneapolis MN 55454; oUuoe*"
Be Gain fdenistteaitng ae ie to Help Girls | Distributed by Nanna Book Network and availabe
ee ee on, Se talking miioe oes “ SNS tle gg aS
€ probl . :
What's on oftls cee te map: Discusses The Girl-Son by Anne E. Neuberge= since
mage, Money management ve relationships, body 20th-century Korean schools did not 2a f as
“mPowering them to take the ee harassment Induk Pahk received her early schooling dis
for themselves, I wanted to get ative and stand u a boy. Her education required enormous sacl wav
iKee ae filling out the alee my pen, and start but she became an educator and a lecture? ee in
—_>*Ytecommend this for a ae eled widely and advanced the cause . ae el
September/October 1997 6 adultsection. | Korea. This novel, based on her life, 6" mo
olume 2
96multicultur 5 1.57505-077-3.
Gals: Women of the Old West by
Maria Miller. Includes biographical refer-
| and index. Lots of really interesting pictures.
| aoa jot about how women in the West had (and
dom and more rights than else-
m .. ore the fr Ue .e S . Late elementary to adult. $8.95,
; ag a really like this book. I’ve passed it around o vn ee l! o usW an bd oe or ki s ng t haa tr o nu en ed d B toE A b e/ n Ag iB n Ah , ou um rI b fl koe iu dn sd p ie at nh do e v se e yr om uat nh ri g-s
to friends and family, with positive raves from all.
acu sections. Help! An absolutely indispensabl
| ¢sa fictional account of a real adventure. Hermine guide to life for girls! by Na H Beene
1-56247-230-5, Ple Aree lpi ee
Jahns rides across the country with the first woman
; , Pleasant Co.) Really is wonderful —
| to complete a coast-to-coast drive across the US. written in a sort of Dear Abby form — covering topics
Includes wonderful details and information, maps from tough teachers, feelings, bullies...thoughtful
and such. I wanna go back in herstory and meet answers that really make sense to kids. My ten-year-
| these women — awesome! Upper elementary to old niece loves this book. Non-racist, non-sexist, not
adult. $7.95, 1-57505-074-9 centered on boys at all. Advertised in the Feminist
Lerner, 241 First Ave. N, Minneapolis MN Bookstore Network Fall Catalog. More Help! Another
55401; 800-328-4929. Available from B&T, Ingram. absolutely indispensable guide to life for girls! by
Nancy Holyoke. ($4.95, 1-56247-481-2, Pleasant Co.)
QC Ditto the above, a second helping. Thoughtful advice
on picky parents and uninvited guests, blabbermouths
(g/ j= and best friends, sleepovers, stepfamilies and more.
_ Women Breaking Through: Overcoming the The Care & Keeping of Friends, American Girl
Final 10 Obstacles at Work by Deborah Swiss. This Library. ($7.95, 1-56247-482-0, Pleasant Co.) How do
book documents the stories of more than 300 women you plant the seed of friendship and make sure it
" Sw uh co c esh sa v fe o r t ta hk ee mn sec lo vn et sro l a no df ft oh re ir t hec ia rr e oe rr gs a na in zd a tic or ne sa te —d wg ir to hw s? c raA ftd sv ,i ce qu if zo zr e sm , ak ai nn dg cf rr ei ae tn id vs e a wn ad ysb ein tog ca e lf er bi re an td e,
_with strategies that benefit women, men, and the friendships. Avery positive, engaging book, with help-
" |C. 4t b p h pao ikt e he lt M ed to a ym r t eg wa nl yni Tn d e ue. tr L r n he : tI ef a h ra evty W eo o tt “u h hmr ei eb s e m y pn b o tu ’ wns yse oPi . a n t ke nr$ S s e2 ies s9 c oa t . i u”r9 a ts c5 se , h ic s t dyGi 1 eof no - o tn d5 r t 6 r hl0 o es S i7e me el 9 l hl eb- fs 5 3 mh A5 h eSa if- h tr t2 sad e. opb r ri a mrc o nt ok osh t., te f C s T “u ;o e r Aml . r i sei p es rpt s . au iT a g h l ckeg p— ( n a$e n5m, rs . eet M 9 i 5 Gs e t, io i i e rnn n t lc t 1s e o f5 s6J e aa r 2I o r nwn e 4s i d a a 7 ee ds s5 8f i r1 i i n 5n o eid g a f0 ae m r: .a p b)s otr o. lhe oA de F s k n u Iss n dl . e le d Aw m Ce E tilie lsw llr ,,i t ri c t i l feh ci rn a o &i t n ns mth he nes to F e eG u lw, i lA l r lm lI e r nol re eubt i e C wy ic P r ita cl , hl tVne e aa ha tl s eGa r tin t thsir h a ht iyel e ess ,
h e y r t o . A a e g r }I c a y
n o - y - gi
Se understanding, support, and strategies for serie. s, along wit; h ii ts accon treMmesnt s, 1S icevs ea rny ew 1SA m“eG rican
7 “ osto ew 8 the wo ep llp or ast u fn oi rt y p urfo sr u ip ne gr so tn ha eil r d di rs ec ao mv se .r y Ona cn ed 7 gi- r1 l.1 -y Te ha er -o gil rd l s se at r. e Ea uc nh i qub eo ok i n a rn a s e le es,a p tt hi et su ed e b. ooF sul l aro ef
[ in k
IP$1 n9 g. r99 ae55 , 1- n JS 5a 60h 7 a 9r -d 6b 3 aa 2 Sc - k 4 2, , 2 24 .b 2 u 3t ; vas Pt ii r ll il n bw c lo e etr ot n fh oNc mJo ns K0i o8d e5e n4r 3 ,a ; t i B6o &0n T9. ,- adve atn t cu hr oe i cea sn d forf un y’ on uo rn - hs ee y eox ui nns g ot B hg Ss ei t rro l Psr e.y tc T aah nu e s e J ea i wt t e s it s Meaa xbd iod cui ott !i o Jn o T s het e-o
m , 3 8 A a r t h N
53562; 800-
eton WI
ia st on te hen e at lp? etA Zl bp b oh y oa kb e Evt ie: eaSG hr a —wa .n d wm iA ta hd elC ai a gn gh t ef auB tle B&I, epB to eo mk ba ez ri /n Oe c. 1O 91
t ober 97
h ab d r , S
Ta
97ea ee
2 ihe n] es o — -
ero OM Cp Hicte let CrerPaciG oO
Ti HE Sau OF Evg
FORGETFUL OF THEIR SEX THE Story I
Female Sanctity and Society, TELL MYSELF neh gg and Sperm and Preformatio
ca. 500-1100 A Venture in Existentialist Clara Pinto-Correia ‘
nits aatteay Schulenbairg Autobiography Cloth $29.95
Cloth $34.95 Hazel E. Barnes
Cloth $29.95 LIBIDINAL CURRENTS
WoMEN OF THE Sexuality and the
TWELFTH CENTURY WoMEN, GENDER, Shaping of Modernism
Volume 1: Eleanor of AND SCIENCE: Joseph Allen Boone
Aquitaine and Six Others New DIRECTIONS Paper $19.95
Georges Duby Edited by Sally Gregory Kohlstedt
Paper $15.95 a Helen Longino IN THE SHADOW
‘apear: $25.00 OF MARRIAGE
WoMEN’s WorpDs Osiris, Volume 12 Condi eae
Essay on French Singularity nae ee ie
eae g ) African Community
ieeees Anne M. O. Griffiths
Paper $18.95
OF THEIR SEX |
THE U
BUiSiurenn Annie ne HICAGO PRESS
E—e
— - lis Avenue, Chicago, Illinois 60637
Visit us at hit p:/vww.press.uchica g0.edu
ifs Ss
98 — Vol—ume— 2 —f Mev Miller =li te dite and cultural studies. They focus on issues
COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS . primary concern to Caribbean women: interre-
gional immigrant female labor, the interplay of race
Now available in paperback: New Maladies of and gender in the construction of national cultures
the Soul by Julia Kristeva. ($16.50, 0-231-09983-5, the impact of developmental policies on women’s
November.) Families We Choose: Lesbians, Gays, lives, and women’s roles in providing cultural com-
Kinship. Revised Edition by Kath Weston. ($17.50, 0m -u 2n 5i 3t -2y 092-in e $x 3i 5l e -c 3o 32m 4m 9u -4n .i ties. $17.95 pb
1 5 ; c l,
0-231-11093-6, November.)
(4
INDIANA UNIVERSITY PRESS |
One of the things university presses like to do |
with their journals is to turn theme issues into books.
Such is the case with Feminism Meets Queer Theory JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY PRESS
edited by Elizabeth Weed and Naomi Schor. The A Woman’s Life in the Court of the Sun King:
articles in this collection were previously published in Letters of Liselotte von der Pfalz, Elisabeth Char-
differences. (As an aside, it’s easy to miss new issues of lotte, Duchess d’Orléans, 1652-1722, translated and
differences. As a bookseller, my one main gripe with the introduced by Elborg Forster. $16.95 pb, 0-8018-5635-3.
publication is that it’s always the same color! It’s hard
MCFARLAND & CO., Inc.
foryouand your customers to know whenanew issue
; $ih ird o aa p Fta 3Ea n e tt mn h e 9s a hc d e m n .el L o i dr 9riu a— r. cg 5q cd hu y .e r u ee or $ aes neo l1 r et ets a a e7 ri s ie . s oh o9s da . o5s ts ea S ea h er ony e 1 ep vin cd ss o b evo i a r , $t e a n ay 1o b ld od p 7ty 0 p— .p h - ab P le 2 Y nfoJ 5po ir 5 drt ou ga l oes 3 h odr ui d r p- i mr c n bn bo 2ti y ,ign c o1v h at 1e g o a o d 1 se rt m h. B 8 dh aj p ou) e fe i- o p rt al t2 xu tl ghme; iw e areA ey nid nar m mn d.l a, y i ie $ dtyy l ss b3 n n ,w cy9G re t Ta . da -ps h iy 9 ioy sH Pn ne t5 l, l y a a ii tpe w ,ncn ofra sh c y nd eeil tt , ii a, s 0mch iR tlc si -e iau is c - ah 2n, hb 3o vy i eei 3n D esa 3ts an 2t if n -tF l, 7e Qe 2t te 8s tccum 1h h-t m har 1i iTo 8 i em ie 2n n.l on tor e 5c io z rii re aa -iqsg is a r hs c 5u ey em eota lh ;e s, o — i t i L o A c mtt on f on iy sod .e sf b n v ut cos te GI o th et rp r ow r a e ic sE m iew ya h nav ba ,aa t io oe gt utk fis nnr e ati n e gcL s ov gc o ie r ew qo hnkw s su ? euo ogi a M b i l e n t y i ied td — nhd t an t iS le n hdt to eyp oe :o , r s et a o dnm l h d: l i w se e p n h a a r ta lt i nb T hn ob ib os y eo ydh fb fo o y p w o r eefu o ae ak s t pu r or y NB ss abi t S i i. o t,h at os t ret r nt oah neo sh r fbe m x ne A io rt aua eu n o— fh ,al w n nsta md r i lo s.t o b r . w a m ar ad. ee d“ na n Kj Ls . r dr t du e ah i Si rs s er sh bta et Yo h r Bn e sou h aa? rr rsu. wb nc r .o . a l ih f. nW gae w y e e aa n ses s lys srho s eb e eo sm ie ew 7 m ge eas o ino” s s .h f a h s u e no t e p s u nx sps e n fah oawu oc io d ae n cat sm ee ti tle e o e - s- Sd oin o n
r e i rs e s r a h i l t - i , M a c
j
i d l i n m o e n e e m u
o s
n 9 o u t 5 e e t e : y d b a i n
there’s a place in the library’ a cases, individuals
on D e aTins s 296 s -6 o. f the Calaban: Caribbean Women to confronting homop hobia: . aplication for their
Se: ‘Wentieth Century edited by Consuelo Lopez
Pringfield anthologizes the work of feminist schol-
._ Manthr opology, soci: ology, law, health sciences,
20 Number 3 99Bookstore News
Feminist
casual book purchaser as the ins oe
makes it a bit financially inaccessible. I 1
FAL | for our
don’t buy it in your store, they'll just have 3
to the library! $42.50 cl, 0-7864-0363-2. M .
Childbirth in Co., Inc., Box 611, Jefferson NC 28640; 800
Midwifery and
NEW YORK UNIVERSITY PREss
Judith Pence Rooks
Foreword by Charles S. Mahan, M.D. The viewpoints recorded in The Geng
er Politics
$54.95 of HIV/AIDS in Women: Perspectives 0
Pandemic in the United States editeg by Ni er
Transgender Care Goldstein and Jennifer Manlowe are, unfortunater
RECOMMENDED GUIDELINES, PRACTICAL not surprising. Research and health care programs f
INFORMATION, AND PERSONAL ACCOUNTS women are woefully inadequate, underfunded a
ignored. So, too, is the case for women with
Gianna E. Israel and Donald E. Tarver Il, M.D.
Foreword by Joy Diane Shaffer, M.D. HIV/AIDS. This books explores these issues espe.
i tage oe cially among those most often disenfranchised: the
$39.95 December f
homeless, sex workers, youth, the elderly, intraye.
The Best of THE HARVARD nous drug users, transgendered people, lesbians
GAY & LESBIAN REVIEW bisexuals, incarcerated women, and victims of sexual
and domestic abuse. $19.95 pb, 0-8147-3093-0,
Edited by Richard Schneider, Jf. In high school and college I remember being
Foreword by Edmund White
required to read war memoirs written by men like
$27.95 November Stephen Crane or Ernest Hemingway. I hated it.|
Searching for Safe Spaces resented it. I longed for something different. Now it's
here — a book I hope young women are encouraged
AFRO-CARIBBEAN WOMEN WRITERS IN EXILE to read alongside these other “classics.” Beyond the
Myriam J. A. Chancy Home Front: Women’s Autobiographical Writing of
the Two World Wars edited by Yvonne Klein includes
$19.95
excerpts from writings by Vera Brittain, Ida B. Wells
Ecological Politics
Barnett, Mary Meigs, Gertrude Stein, Joy Kogawa,
Sylvia Pankhurst, and many others. These are women
ECOFEMINISTS AND THE GREENS
who were WAC’s or imprisoned in concentration
Greta Gaard
camps, or on the homefront offering various kinds of
$22.95 January support. They talk about themselves and their family
NEW IN PAPERBACK members as we learn of their complex and heroic
Abort cece aeakh lives, often silenced, by the tales of men’s battles m:
rtion wartime. $17.95 pb, 0-8147-4702-7.
BETWEEN FREEDOM AND NECESSITY
Janet Hadley
SUNY I
Many women read autobiographies — pe 5
eEeec Paper ea what they can show us of the subject, and 2%
€ Philippine Islands, what we can learn about ourselves. How a, an
writing as the basis for feminist theoriZ en's
TEMPLE UNIVERSITY PREGS || Lives/Womenss Times: New Essays 0” 8
tap 1-800-447-1656 women-centered education is the topic of see
PHILADELPHI Biography edited by Trev Lynn Broug ry and
omen : a Linda Anderson. These are essays for . ° sone
September /October 1997 pedagogy offering a complex weave © = N 3
Volume
100Feminist
Bookstore
News
aS
Af
no Or ,
lei MY Th
litical, and theoretical, beyond the usual generic
| and disciplinary boundaries. $19.95 pb, 0-7914-3398-6. w fm ai e mt m ih o r yy N ,a iv ta uf aj r lo i en ddl osa , n g pu r ba . a ry8 ke, ir V fo ei ac te hs e, r s pe ar ns d ona sl a crei dn si sg oh nts g,
l r g s a n
TEACHER’S COLLEGE PRESS li fe. These poe4 tic ref] 8 / and th e ordi.n ar y stuff of
i
and L Ae ua tr on bin ig o grF ar po hm y O iu n r EdL ui cve as t: i onW om ee din t, e d R be ys ea Ar nc nh a, life of a Navajo poet, ect mi oo tn hs e r,o f , fe dr a da aur ga htr ee r , look and into the =
mother. $12.95 pb, 0-8165-1728-2, . A
Neumann and Penelope Peterson considers the ways
es
inwhich autobiographical accounts, especially as they
|
| pertain to education and developmental knowledge,
| can change the field of education. Diverse women’s
| lives shape pedagogical considerations as women UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA PRESS
assume positions of intellectual leadership. These are
Here’s one we might not consider feminist but
} essays by eleven eminent educational researchers.
one that we should know exists. Women’s Aglow is an
| $21.95 pb, 0-8077-3593-0.
international, interdenominational group of “spirit-
filled” women who meet outside the formal church
| TEMPLE UNIVERSITY PRESS
structure for healing prayer, worship and testimony.
As a radical feminist, I often approach texts by (For some reason, this women’s group is not as well-
‘Men writing about patriarchy and feminism (not known as its male counterpart, The Promise Keepers.)
| that there are so many such attempts) with some God's Daughters: Evangelical Women and the Power
| ‘Caution. After a look at The Gender Knot: Unravel- of Submission by R. Marie Griffith challenges the
ing Our Patriarchal Legacy by Allan G. Johnson, | simple generalizations often made about charismatic
‘tan say that this book is a worthy addition to the or “spirit-filled” Christian women and uncovers
‘Small group of serious writing by men who under- important connections between Women’s Aglow
| ‘Stand the oppression of women, who can clearly and members and the feminists to whom they so often
Without defensiveness define a system of patriarchy, seem opposed. (Sorry, I can’t help but ask, is this a
md who can voice the participation of both men and reversal of A. Dworkin’s remarkable book, Right-Wing
We” in patriarchy without blaming the victim. Women?) $24.95 cl, 0-520-20764-5.
mitten in clear and accessible language — without Reprint celebrates the Twentieth Anniversary
#eademic boorishness or political rhetoric — this is since original publication! Loose Change: Three
. itroduction for women as well as men — but Women of the Sixties by Sara Davidson sire ct
|, “ R5p .o Egr Rt Sa I0n Tt Yl y w, 9i 't Ai 5s Rhf Ipr Zo m N-a 6m 6a 3n 5dw h Swo tca $n 9hc .el 9ye 5a cr al cny w oaxe ivcl niecuc puo m iwe r ae yo- fp gu ab nl doi c nea ht tpi blo wian f to hir t ih co hms e n go ts ht ea sl g i Tc o:f ro r t vt enL e2 sa)
UDa 5 I5 Vg Eo 7 5 * h O$ a 1 Ft . s 9 a bp ,p Oe 1n i 5 An g 9 Pa - Rn E1 9 - Sh 4 ;a 5 t l o dtr o j gds t sr or e toa n ontn t i wg n ee n e s rt l a i t m i ’x o on s . i o n ng r T a ot op o shf er wo b aa l ed , w o nm t o e h et on e u s g w= o9 e :
e t
d o k o w na t e
~N D n , e n e
_
d
a au Say you can’t judge a book by its cover. Well, Bi interested
__~fe t hi P“ sb Po er oa cs iu oe t nls i l tef ecR u dtlu i s oh ona nn cd oI fn v p yib o oby uer a mL n s eu t nc ti ea c rno T dv a e irp ns a t ooh w ro h i tn ei hss c e. sho Yoih suna tv s oi t w iiea ls sl s t ryu n ion o cu- t eroa i s nr ia ne r d gt n en e eke wilabl e i e ea e ini tdn iS oe nCe ,e l Hte i ic n r dua m n yd t Gh: oow dla don egt sii sen esg s, : L ae Va 1sr 1a 0
n d
4 e t e r e h e
September /October 1997Fe om fi ni ths et DB io vo ik n: s et or Fe e miN n- e iw n+76 s e "in $14t .h 9e 5 H pbi ,n d 0u - 520R -e 0l 6i 3g 3i 9ao -iu 2es . Aex ma em ri in ce as n h po ow p ulal re sbi cua ln ti us rm e h ina s thb ee e 2n 0 thTr eee in
ve David Kinsley.
how conflicting ideologies have shaped lesbian
aie e's e Te 5h 1e o l 9o| g N ye a b,r e os f 0t 5t 2S h 0i e -s t 2e 1r F 6e 2o m -f i 6n ,iW n ii i ns Oe cd o om b: b ey St B. arH i bl ad re a wr di e he r in i cc v he e s isp a rn wed rd io tm ti i ed ne nn at ti bt e yy l . y eT sh f be r o nm s ou l air st c ee r ws ea lt ]u rf eo, _h e hr 1 ,t whe tt e
e . 4 $14. 5 o - 1 t r . l ia s a s t a t n
UNIVERSITY OF Silene fous aor = about lesbians. $14.95 pb, 1-55849-091-4. $40 ¢]
b di tof hm e r‘ Mnt ode tr hes e t r s’t Go e Pt n eh d no es sre i onw a si nt dh i n th Ced he ive cP aoo l gip oti ,i cs 1 91o 1f - 19w 29 ee by UNIV ReE pR reS sI eT ntY i ngO F t heM I WoN mN aE n:S O CT iA ne maP RE anS dS Psycho,
Joanne Goodwin. $17.95 pb, 0-226-30393-4. analysis by Elizabeth Cowrie is not intend ed for the
popular moviegoer who likes to read about film. This
UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS PRESS is for serious students who look to cinema aS a Way of
The Lesbian Menace: Ideology, Identity, and the understanding the complexities of life and to psycho.
Representation of Lesbian Life by Sherrie Inness logical theory — in this case specifically of Freud and
-C
CORNELL
_
Dwelling Peasant Maids— Masculinity Finding Time
in Possibility City Women
and Morality How Corporations,
Women Poets From the European LARRY MAY Individuals, and Families
and Critics on Poetry Countryside to Can Benefit from
Larry May argues against New Work Dratices
ROTED RY Urban America
standard accounts of
YOPIE PRINS anp CHRISTIANE LESLIE A. PERLOW
MAEERA SHREIBER HARZIG €7 AL. traditional male behavior,
discussing male anger, Do today’s employees have
0 0-- 88 00 11 44 -- 83 21 99 49 -- 19 $$ 14 99 .. 99 55 pc al po et rh Edited by Christiane Harzig paternity, pornography, to work long hours on the
0-8014-8395-6 $16.95 paper rape, sexual harassment, job to succeed? Leslie A.
4 b&w illus. November 15 b&w photos July the exclusion of women, Perlow shows how employ-
and what he terms the ees can spend more time at
NOW IN PAPER!
myth of uncontrollable home while also improving
Sexuality, State, Sex and male sexuality. the company’s productivity:
and Civil Society 0 0- -8 80 01 14 4- -3 84 41 48 2- -1 $ $3 19 5. .9 95 c pl ao pt eh A 0N 80I 1LR -3Pr 4e 2ss -4B ook
Conquest 1 5 r - 4 5 $ 37.50 cloth
in Germany, January 0-8014-8445-6 $13.95 pape!
Gendered Violence,
1700-1815 September
ISABEL V. HULL Political Order, and The Cultural 1 Racal
the European Conquest
= of the Americas Politics of Fur The -
Winner of the 1996
0 NAb tL y hse - oe o s 8 o 0t chG 11ie Ae 9 4 a vr 9 -tA as 6 8i imh o 2 leo n 5 ar B y b3ei l-rac e4kA n a s dw n h a i ¢r r ]w H ed ii ns .nt P 9g eo r 5i ir r v zi e ec Pn a o fl o aR P CW r noiI i dn mz C en mo e i GH r a t A w yt a eR of er HD d it e sh o tde n C rJ, yLbo y eh snT E b t iR hR aB eE noA sX wLL elEE lR R 400J 1- -U 8 8L 0 0 bI 1 1 &A 4 4 w - - 3 83 4V il6. 0 l 8 u4 s- .- E 1 9 M DB e$ $ c14E 72 eR .. m95L b50 e E rY c pl a o pt eh r 0 SC C - eHo 8 pA 0 tn 1 eR 4t mL - br 3 eE 4 ra S 5 4 -8W . $19M .I 9L 5 LS
8 a p er a o
w
0 11- 8 b01 &4 w- 84 p8 ho7 t- o9 $1 O6 c. t9 o5 erP aper
TO ORDER CALL (800)
s b
OR FAX (800) 68
PRESS SAGE HOUSE © 512 EAST STATE STREET © ITHACA, NY] 4850
102
——Feminist Bookstore
News
i _ to dissect it all. Cowrie presents a d : iscussion basketry — women const
of c ca i; n n ema tic acd te is vi itr ye , t h va ot yes uh ro iw s,s m ,t he f eti ihyn . st he ir a sr me ,l at ai no dn s ih di ep n tio -f from old tradition, $ 22.50 a pn bt ,l y 0 -w 80e 7a 8v -i 4n 6g 5 0-n 3e . w worlds
| fan ; Yi, sub} making of feminine and masculine film UNIVERSITY OF OKLAHOMA
PRESS
fication $18.95 pb, 0-8166-2913-7.
| | Bec Pao cc tivof e i Tn et ce hre ns ot l: o giC eu sl tu +r a Tl h e C Ro en mc ae kpt ii no gn s: of LiO fn e W Aro mm ie tW n ar g i et s i n Wg ie ns ct t lh ue d e edR sia tn eg d 2e 9 : b y e R sa sEc ale yi, sz aC bl ie na t s hs a, J haa en m fd e t ys oCu n vl ot lau n ur de m e Sin u s tt hah ane t
“py valerie Hartouno. $16.95 pb, 0-8166-2623-5. present women of all races as actors in their own lives
wivERSITY OF MISSOURI PRESS a ofn d wi on mt eh ne his wt ho or y hof vt eh e A lom ne gr ic bea en We ss it l. ncT eh de se are pv ao ni ic se hs
|
a n e — S
‘omeO nf l Wo rca il t ii nn gt er Ae bst o: u tH a Tr hd es ih r ip L ivea sn ,d 1H 8o 2p 0e -: 1 92M 0i s es do iu tr ei d JM ae px ai nc ea sn se Kt ot rle er as n, Am Ire ir shi ca in migIn rd ai na tn ss ,, C Nh ai vn ae js oe s, B Aa fs ciq eu ae
e, , m , n
r ith an introduction by Carla : Waal and Barbara Americans who moved West during WWII, activist
# O liver Korner. $19.95 pb, short discount, 0-8262-1120-8. Mothers of East Los Angeles fighting ecological disas-
ters, and others. $21.95 pb, 0-8061-2952-2; $45 cl, -2929-8.
| UNIVERSITY OF NEBRASKA PRESS
A Lost Lady by Willa Cather. Scholarly Edition UNIVERSITY PRESS OF VIRGINIA
| includes an historical essay by Susan Rosowski with Aging — we all do it and it’s one of the hottest
‘Kari Ronning and explanatory notes also by Kari topics for women at the end of this century. Declining
to Decline: Cultural Combat and the Politics of
Ronning. $55 cl, 0-8032-1427-8.
_ The adventure continues with Covered Wagon Midlife by Margaret Morganroth Gullette explores
“Women: Diaries & Letters from the Western Trails, the societal /commercial perception that middle age is
1852, Vol. 5, The Oregon Trail edited and compiled the start of a long decline and the cultural imperative
| by Kenneth Homes and David Duniway. $14 pb, that we “find” our identities before it’s too late. Part
| 0-8032-7294-4. cultural commentary and political theory, the view-
point is largely autobiographical and humorous.
$23.95 cl, 0-8169-1721-2.
UNIVERSITY OF TORONTO PRESS
I
UNIVERSITY OF NEW MEXICO PRESS University of Toronto has a warehouse in Buffalo,
_ Spider Woman: A Story of Navajo Weavers and New York, making bookstore access in the States much
3 PC P Aen u Nr“a b s Swn l o .ht i n oe s f a hr o l es , 1w d 6we .enw 9ai ar t n 5cvi ct e1 ot pt .9o bue 3 ,nn 4l t .i W 0vb he -Ry a 8o e fw t 2i ia ctn 3dhh -t aa e 1ih r m l 7r da e y 9o ’ r 3Np s g -o a N 6el v a .m so a vo g j ati o jis i s ovt a f t aaG nim l il i o fa l n eh yd i y s iws t n— a o s ri t R w hce a eati o ls c , h l ee aa f ai rr yr r led s n ytt e M t naa ra ons a tr di t -e i er fl d, oI ty ’ rhnv a -tO e t shr a ad W t loe t a en hr I l r es f y i: iW n n C og 'ar 7 m te n1 hec ta6 e— ie itlesn d- tn 6 it S e8 l sa ta C 3 y ann o t - iisd u se4 n sb5 av ,te4 vn eee a7 ro dn y i, sw o ii u ooii 's bf n lna I l, ko lx t e' u r m t7 Co ba - ae1 od oo 6 uu f d- unc h-f 6 tae p .a8 n i rd Hp.5 n Ti p u- gn hy6 t mt rF o8 o ef 9 r of t n5 rt r o h. t oe Nh m lo o Rae w s t a isHeo rh na ir r n tk f egp sr tu e hs a -o r- i tf s
$ 6 s l W lava a r t n s a e M A g q hu r i s
IVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA PRESS see own words: “In a world
‘m 7 I cef W ny te eo i ea nyu a Ekgv cne . e eoi d e l l no T om vv shg T ge ea oi ch y s rrd ,e a nb sN ie f .a ir te ss s ow tk a Ah cBe — n i niat ed as dWs s l t ,o k so b s r e r ea u clo t oyn lt od fm r d nse y ed— c: a si ow l t a bo s i rf cS oyn aso, oot nent vu S dh set ae i ,t r tr h o ’ tia tsew n hek a eo eg rcs Hn ia m i roto l e nte lw r ah krn oe rrn m ncw eei om i oelw g o c wlC n nhr lch i te o eb ee t ec ne dir ri ta o gvrom uqb n ic erka uo u ei ieku m weteet o -s oe f w wi p e o ph n fr bo t ,oe r e c tr k sr e he n es -a si 8st h D 0ia dg 2aol ei 0f n lnv -a d ke aie 7l tt e on 8h s e n 6a i s n n wu o tp -e Slo 3m o i ri hep ;ea e em s i u .c s s ”e el . to $h ” lu :a nm na 4n dt o 5r i $ a Ui 1o g In c9n h lv Us. ,t i o 9 h Ds i 5 i i cis eeg 8bl p l 7u yi b d 6~ak , -e er 3l Ma d0y .i an : - wt n r 8ht e s y0o ee u 2 Ts r Sc 0b h, ee eHh - e pa8a t0 we pe e7 x kHw m6c iuo b-el nr e6 mu si rl .d n.a d se .n /d a ‘ c$ tt 1 of re C bur $ eot 1o r7s h m .i ts 9d Z 15
W a o h m v u , h e i s f 0 1 - 0 O 997
103News
Bookstore
Feminist
aa artin’s Fress Scholarly
Reference
ew York, NY 10010 Division
175 Fifth Avenue * N
SEX, NATION, AND DISSENT
POLITICS IN IRISH WRITING
FEMINISM AND THE
OF READING Edited by Eibhear Walshe
aPL ey iean a rn l ce e as ncP dee f nua alr al ryc ni xe o sc ti y,Ip n a ofl fa v o wr t ah O tfe f tU h tt ee rx et c a- lhr la ye o a sd e er a an ndr se l ca o tt n oi fo un rss eih aoi dnp ,, as tr he e as i fs p et l mi e in a -g - oT n thuh a ai t t ts i oto np iai tleo ein x rase a rme m r ii n a en e ng d rtc eho s sel e sl xe iurc oaet nlli sao t n i i o d oen fo nf s t h siie t ep ys ,s aa b ly e a s rt gw du ies sie e snt in gs
i e h i m
l y x p x u -
nist.
dence in Ireland cannot be abstracted
October 1997 * 320 pp. from the country’s experience of colo-
ISBN 0-340-61415-7 $19.95 pb. ¢ Amold nization.
1997 e 501 pp.
YEATS AND WOMEN ISBN 0-312-17447-0 ¢ $19.95 pb.
Edited by Deirdre Toomey
This revised and enlarged edition of Yeats and Women col- “TO BE YOUNG WAS VERY HEAVEN?
lects eight essays on Yeats’s relationships with women—as
Women in New York Before the First World War
friends, lovers, muses, collaborators. Also included are col-
lections of letters to Yeats from Olivia Sandra Adickes
Shakespear and Florence Farr. Adickes captures the women who played integral roles during
September 1997 ¢ 420 pp. this fervent period, evoking the now-lost paradise that New
ISBN 0-512-17409-8 * $19.95 pb. York offered to women at the turn of the century.
October 1997 © 256 pp.
ISBN 0-512-16249-9 « $55.00 dl.
LAY BY YOUR NEEDLES
LADIES, TAKE THE PEN
Writing Women in England A CONCISE GLOSSARY
1500-1700
OF FEMINIST THEORY
Edited by Suzanne Trill, Terry Lovell, Carol Wolowitz, and Sonya Andermahr
Kate Chedgzoy, and Melanie Osborne This glossary brings together key words from a wide ae :
_ 9 SptT eh e exi t f pts i as tt n, i eg a o e mn n s bt i ,h en o o f rc l l fo u sig od c 1t ciy i 9iin o a 9g n l 7,c , on w a rt «i n ea t d li c in h 8gs c i 4ar o ua ut fl pot So p,b n g i aoP ngae drx m at p pr ph ha ol y lc e i.t tts is c, alf T r ho e vm l e et a wtf o sei .f rrt s ty , i ne ga sr l py rr o epm pho ied ece eir e nsn , f Ie 1i Sn 9e Bcl 9 Nd o 7 s u n 0t ©a n e 3d 2r 2e 04d -c u 5l p 9tt pe 6u . rr 6me 3s s, -, cr ea $t 1i 8ng 95a pr be .s ou rc Ae olo df the mos
i
- 4 5 * . ¢ m
3
ISBN 0-340-61450-]
e $2 4.95 pb. * Arnold
BETWEEN JIHAD
WOMEN IN IT ALIAN RENAISS
AND SALAAM
Gender, Represe ntation, and Identity ANCE ee, Profiles in Islam
Paola Tinagli
Joyce M. Davis
Adopting traditional dress to gain
access to a range of Islamic leaders
normally off-limits to Westerners,
p.
the author sheds new light on our
-4054-
Manchester Un v‘ ersaiitye Pre$s1e 9.95 view of the Islamic world.
SS 1997 © 368 pp.
ISBN 0-312-16587-0 e $29.95 cl.
Senin
104Compiled by Jenn Tust
|i must find way ds to ouS ru cs et sa i on inth se pi ir ate iom no .t i Hon oa wl dol eif se
B ANTAM ua l S f r
| § Ball Chicks: A Year in the Violent World of titer express herself with nO paper?
a Girl Gangsters by Gini Sikes. ($23.95 cl, 0-385-47431-8, determined dancer find balance in a
| | | A inn c th ho er . g) h eS ti tk oe ss fis o la lv oe wt ie nr ga n gij rlo ur gn aa nl gi ss .t w Shh eo cs ap pe tn ut r ea s ye ta hr e dw sh eo i er p pl ed b r ew ti iwt neh te o nn o th t ehm eu s fs e oi rc es? si t s tT e th r osr o ftu ihg na dh t ou t wt r ha, an ts fi it x iti e s s m,t ehe aa s r se t l ha et ty oi on g b- o
n e
unique differences that distinguish girl gangs — abor- human, female, and alive in this new world. [Origi-
tion, teen pregnancy, beatings, and forced sex. Quite nally published by Calyx.]
graphic. Rita Will: An Autobiography by Rita Mae
When Work Doesn’t Work Anymore: Women, Brown. ($23.95 cl, 0-553-09973-6, November, Bantam.)
Work and Identity by Elizabeth Perle McKenna. Author of the landmark gay novel, Rubyfruit Jungle,
| ($23.95 cl, 0-385-31795-6, Delacorte.) This is Dela- tells her own remarkable story —a larger than life tale
| corte’s lead Fall title! McKenna takes a hard look at the as colorful as her fiction. Includes an eight-page black-
‘balancing act we as working women play — and has and-white photo insert.
| some ideas towards helping us combine work and
Ali
career in a balanced, fulfilling life. (What, you mean
there's life outside being a feminist bookseller?)
Talk to Me: Stories & A Novella by Carol Dines.
Living Color: A Writer Paints Her World by
($15.95, 0-385-32271-2, Delacorte.) A rich variety of
Stories exploring love and romance, morality, mortal- Natalie Goldberg. ($16.95 tp, 0-553-35489-2, October,
ai dty d _, r _e Pf s li s er es at s ej to ob Pps li, c s sg eia my p o lr ep t aa sar ene tn bt ys t o Rta eon ndd ea ey’ sm So wr t iee ne. dn s l. S .k il (l $f 2u 2l .l 9y ehB xaa pvn let a rm es. e) t thh eG iu ro n l dd orb wee ndr sg ’ crs eo f tia t vc ihc to yl u .a s i am Nne odd ws b o -o f o k es oo eso , n cg .o n ee .
a
a
s e a P e 5 o
0-385 b- o3 u1 t8 63 -4 y, uD ni gal .) lB ar ca ks h w, os ma ass ny, r we hm oa rk aa lb wl ae y, w gi es te h te har ow arn s he ec rr et s Rou Crc es, t sh he wil odl ey r rei es F : osae r mS
a o B s s t e E e
she wants, until the tables of love are turned nonsense, Hh ie i pee whatever their se
er. Ask publisher if there is lesbian content — it’s Soc ta oeh n doa eesr st i Fst a gpc a h ino to Wes hre e nd s ro a im w s e i t n tos iu u mb r ej ie sc tt oh s m me on- v eo ia o h 4
he rrs? H w
the Forest by Jean Hegland. ($21.95 cl,
78-8, October, Bantam.) An FCB Guaran- As a anetodes 60 color pea
— wonderful, wonderful, and wonderful. Ns aa tc at liu ee ’h sg e eyn sre es‘ov ous Dep ca li int ni en gs: a n ae by
e
‘0 young sisters struggling to make sense Now in G6 99, 0553573985.) This is 0
TB orld when near future society collapses-
ed and isolated, they find that simple sur- Oo
— food, water, shelter, medical supplies —
be cherished. Even more dramatically, they
—————™_
Bookstore News
Feminist
[SEVENTH IN THE the year 2000 and a world n tum Wag
MARSALA SERIES group of well-networked women CaN save the OW a
CAT
World!
Dorothy Hollang
BEACON
In Making More Waves: New Writing By an
American Women edited by Elaine . Kim fae
Villanueva, and Asian Women United 6 f Ci ay,
(editors of Making Waves), with a foreword By ae
Hagedorn, the contributors not only chal SSica
overthrow stereotypes of Asian womenb pr
poems, essays, and memoirs; that might just s ce on nt fi un s
the media, engage readers, and Prove there is no
single Asian American experience. Looks Sreat! $19
pb, 0-8070-5913-7.
In Does Your House Have Lions? Sonia Sanchez
“joins her best poetry to her deepest feelings: Writing
within the gorgeous difficulties of terzg rima, she con-
jures up the voices of her family lost, and then
redeemed, through confrontation with her brother's
death from AIDS. She says, ‘let my journey sing a path
they sang / oI will purchase my brother’s whisper. /
o I will reward my brother’s tongue.’ And oh! She has
Responding to a domestic violence call, Jm oa rd dae n . t $h 1a 6t clp , ur 0-c 8h 0a 7s 0e - 683w 0i -t 6h . great beauty!” —June
Chicago cop, Shelly Daniello finds her sister's Now in paper: Lieutenant Nun: Memoir of a
husband attacking her sister with a knife, forc- Basque Transvestite in the New World translated by
ing Shelley to shoot to kill. The dead man is a Michele Stepto and Gabriel Stepto, with a foreword
fellow police officer. Reporter Cat Marsala by Marjorie Garber. A must carry! I loved this book.
enters the case when her friend, Chief of $11 pb, 0-8070-7073-4. =
Detectives Harold McCoo comes under
BERKLEY
iaiV nn n i g cc . Mi i co eJu Csus os t oi a n ’ t a st ts h a ec C ok a f ct f a ii cn s b ee et h g we i r i n e tps hp o r re t dts o s es , a p df r lo ao yl b b l eo o r w m ei st bn uhg l e t s ,et d xh ie ps lc os r dh eo epo - st - PaI rsr or s je o ev c cA e ti .rm a ee tn ir t (oi $nc 1 Wa 6.on w 9m 5ie tW n ho ’ tm ps ,e t n h 0e’ H -s i 4s 2Nt 5aA o -trl 1iym 5o 6a n 1n ab 6a y l -c 8: ,L o Wu oA i Bn ms e e re k nI ln ’ eBs ysep . ri )r n i i an k Fg uo e w a :
“Cat is emerging as a strong feminist heroine,” ach ma ar zm ie nr gs l y an hd e roic cr an wk os, m envi .s io An a wr oie ns d era fn ud l lo ost na ee 0
KIRKUS REVIEW to wander through or for serious research. traf
ad Cat Marsala titles: photos, comments and wonderfully amazing ™
A must!
H HHHa aat aard rr rr ddd d alWL lT u aoa c sc mk ek e An ““ SD S Ae t f a“u i fA pn in -n vi ct ri tee rn ialg anlyl hy ka e lri a ei r -t pr - os ”s tl o Bo pu ss p o. te kn" or ru . ysmD ” ,tb o eo Tr Ld . Ai,” mR eev si : ew S0 q- u4 a2 e5A ,-p -p 1 wa 5 r i9i n6 rt i6 ni v- eo 3 tnn , gA ll B ne e ey r wk lb tey sy Ke. aK l) ta t h ne gF Dr eri lon aame eS ldop t h re e ir t , ¢ s( t$ L ei2 b1 ye. Tr9 ht) e©y a
C " e cg e a d , o i A w a rr d i g , b e s l i fu t h e. r
b “ n a i n e i _
p ’
corruption and murder inside the Fe was just
murder investigation of an LAPD cop W
September /October 1997 about to come out.
ee Se
106 Volume 20 Nt i a l s .
p l
Feminist
Bookstore
News
a
Bei pf
ao
A min
“ | ‘The iM tto ed nfe ir eln aW no dm a Jen n’ s MuG nu ni .d e $14t ,o 0H -o 3m 99e 52R 3e 3p 6-a 7i ,r CAROL
PUBLISHING
Ah a g d i ( - GROUP
pyoan does it tak ; Jodie Foster:
‘Porjgee.) How many men: oes it take to screw ina
fightbulb? None! From fixing a leaky pipe to fixing a
| roof the definitive guide to do-it-herself home repair.
| ns cte p-by- ws it t.e p instructions, helpful illustrations and a must! $19.95 cl, 1-55972-348-3
i Birch Lane Press
| W F7 io nm n. .e n (’ $s A Nm 0ue -t 3r r 9i i 9c t -a i 5on 2n 42D -fi o 1e r ,t et H Pi e ec ra il gtA eh es .ys o ci L Aa it v gi i uo n in g bG y tu id eSe au s ia nnt go 5" 0 ys ht oG i ul q ro u sr e i a t b hy e S St aye udi tnn hee oym r : L spaH ede ner tn so iP nha tns es ri vSo itn e es r w, n ngiP s ol thi Set i ec r is e s eul ma t nd o if
14 , 3 ) d e o t i t n n
addition to the author’s interviews with Steinem’s
lr iig fh et l, ngf ro hem ltb ha .s ic ffn iu ct ir ai lt io bn o, kt o ofd is te hea se Dp Ar ’e sv en nt ui to rn i, iot no friends, lovers, and associates both past and present.
o a O o A t
Gloria Steinem the book examines this prominent
and health campaign for women.
| First Light: Morning Meditations for Awakening woman and feminist leader in all her many and varied
roles, while providing insightful and lively history of
to the Living Planet by Amy E. Dean. ($10, 0-425-
the women’s movement. $24.95 cl, 1-55972-409-9
16000-9.) Collection of 366 passages that promote a Birch Lane Press.
—] T
"| bond to the earth by encouraging a daily reflection of
the simple pleasures of the outdoors.
f The Love of Friends: A Celebration of Women’s
| Friendship by Barbara Alpert. ($11, 0-452-16058-0.) A |
treasury of quotations, letters, poems and more.
Includes selections from historical figures, celebrities, Appetite for Life: The Biography of Julia Child,
and real-life women. Noel Riley Fitch. ($24.95, 038548335X, October.)
| Now in paper: Passion’s Shadow by Nicole Describes her high-spirited youth and her marriage of
Conn. Lesbian romance. ($5.99, 0-425-15664-8, Berk- equals, as well as her impact on the way we eat and
| ley.) Cloister Walk by Kathleen Norris. Another big think about food.
| wander with Norris. ($12 tp, 1-57322-584-3, Berkley.) Speaking Truth to Power, Anita Hill. ($24.95,
| Getting Over Getting Older by Letty Cottin 0385476256, October.) Autobiography tells how she
bin. Wonderful wanderings with a lesbian femi- got from rural Oklahoma to Washington DC and how
ne-woman think-tank! ($13 tp, 0-425-15947-7, her life has changed since the Senate hearings in
«_€¥) Grass Dancer by Susan Power. Another all which she brought sexual harassment to the forefront
fr
Cran onite: ($12, 0-425-15953-1, Berkley.) Mama’s of national discussion.
In Search of Islamic Feminism: One Woman's
Global Journey, Elizabeth Warnock Fernea. van
Author discovers Mus ci
November.)
S bq yu !a re 5b .y K 9a th 0e 4r 2i 51n 5e 99F 3or ,r est B. rkD lo en y’ .t s0 w o3 o l8 m v5 ie4 n7 n g5 18 a tl7 l h, io rv er wt nh e w po rr ol bd end se fin Aing their t o ew ln an ear
($ 9 , 8 e ) e o l
Americas: Writings on the Virgin of ‘as of their own viable Wf oe rm ku ini ns gh - W omen and
d by Ana Castillo. An invigorating emt Re ‘on volu ot fi o An ma er ri ie cs a: ST n L Gi tf e c, oS ua cll hy t hH eel g ve os le en s.
n impassioned, unorthodox cele- the Trans 03f 8o 5r 4m 8a 0t 2i 5o 3n , January.) “Told throug
the Virgin of Guadalupe. ($14, i women...” the blurb says,
aes of ordinary
erhead.) —Dorothy Holland and experiences September /October 1997Bookstore News
Feminist HARCOURT BRACE =<. oe
The Body Project The Witch of Exmoor by Margaret Drabh
cl, 0151003637.) Though I do not gener e ($23
Drabble, this one looks like a fascinating a ly sayy
An Intimate History
independent older woman whose family i Of an
of American Girls
quite know what to do with her, €S not
The Magician’s Assistant by Ann Patchett
Joan Jacobs Brumberg cl, 0151002630, October.) Again, | don'tiset - ($23
MERICAN GIRLS Patchett, but this one looks like a wonderful oe
a woman finding herself — and finding some ae
Random House 0-679-40297-7,
[ACOBS \ $24.00 hardcover own magic within instead of being defined bya esi
BERG 32 page black-and-white photo insert; Snow by Betsy Howie. ($21 cl, 0151002735
Le photographs throughout; index. February.) A first novel, which is often chancy — this
one is of a young woman reinventing herself after a
Girls today are in crisis — maturing earlier while divorce. Alone with her cats in the winter, her Survival
traditional social supports for them as they depends on her ability to recognize herself.
develop have disappeared. Mrs. Dalloway by Virginia Woolf. ($11 pb,
0156005557.) (Movie tie-in.) I don’t really sell lots of
Drawing on intimate diaries and photographs books based on movie tie-ins, but I did sell more of
that evoke memories of the past, Joan Brumberg Orlando there for a while and this is Woolf, so hope-
fully it will sell!
chronicles how growing up in a female body has
changed in the past hundred years. She shows The Book of Mercy by Kathleen Cambor. ($12
pb, 0156005190, October.) I did not have this in cloth,
how American girls have come to define
but the paper looks interesting enough — a novel
themselves more and more through their bodies, about mother-ties that includes the father, a son, a
so that today the body has become a girl’s daughter, each searching out that original belonging
primary project, leading to social and emotional in her or his own way.
problems identified by Mary Pipher (Reviving Light on Aging and Dying by Helen Nearing.
Ophelia ) and Carol Gilligan (In a Different Voice), ($10 pb, 0156004968, January.) Co-author of Living the
Good Life, Helen Nearing died in her early 90s. This is
her collection of thoughts of living a good old age,
which she did beautifully.
which is always interesting and frequently powerful.
But if all we really learn is that “Working women do not Al:
live the kind of cookie-cutter lives chronicled in The
Organization Man’ (William Whyte, 1957
will say, “Well, duh!” yte, 1957) most readers
Pushing the Bear by Diane Glancy. ($12 Py
0156005441, January.) We carried this in cloth ands0!
only a couple, but I think it will sell in paper It'8*
novel of the Trail of Tears and just ae
daughter’s Point of view, customer was telling me how compelling it's: a
Bitch: In Pr. Says it is hard to face, but feels so deep and true
Wurtzel. ($23.95, 0385484003, Janu she can’t put it down. Head
Beating the Adoption Odds: Using oo Dru
and Your Heart to Adopt by Cynthia Martin ts out
Marin Groves. ($15 pb, 0156005220, J anuary.) Is ¥
S tot or ae d opfi tl ?l ed Miw ni eth isf . ol Tk hs i sw h bo oo kh av ise bya d ao np t ae dd o p OF H = a t ee)
Number”
Volume 20dopted daughter, who also work profession-
and h the field of adoption. They explore agency
ally in n, private adoption, etc. This is not the book
a0op sanihie s, 1 don’t think, as it does not seem to
i et ah t hem except in looking into the rights of the another mystery
n ?:
Charis. &— L Mi on rd ea AtB y ar na tn at 0187646-8).
pirth famuy- Books / l Legal Tender by the same
109412-9) and on Serve ea ibs aca
HAR VP olE uR meC O TL wL o IN of S D oris Lessing’s autobiography, n($1g8, : 0-n6w ore9 4-5c17o37t r 2 k) Pobitenre Tr eh f e em ia no ist t wo ria ter Va
Walking in the Shade: The Growing Point, will be
available in October ($27.50 cl, 0-06-018295-4). The ut in paperback ($6.5
0-06-101175-4, November). Straitse Brew een
s Le eq su se il g’t so U “nd be or eM my aS nk ”i n, liW fa lk ini ng osi tn wath re S Lh oa nd de n,de tai hl ers m0- y0 s6 t- e0 r1 y7 54 b2 y- 7 K, thO yc to Hb oe gr a) is ra on co ht eh ce kr tC ha il la oh nea n setG a ir nr i tt hy
n h i e p o
a n T , s e
involvement with the Communist party, her work in Candler Park section of Atlanta. Lyn Hightower’s
the theatre, her life as a single parent and, perhaps of mystery Eyeshot is coming out in paperback ($6.50,
most interest to feminist booksellers, describes the 0-06-109609-1, November). Hightower has been com-
writing of The Golden Notebook (available in a 35th pared to Patricia Cornwell in style.
anniversary edition, 0-06-097590-3).
A natural sequel to Motherless Daughters is The
Also out this summer is Erica Jong’s Inventing Mother Loss Workbook ($14 pb, 0-06-095222-9) by
Memory: A Novel of Mothers and Daughters ($25 cl, Diane Hambrook and Gail Eisenberg, co-founders of
0-06-017943-0). Told through the narrative of Sara, Motherless Daughters, Inc. Another useful work-
Inventing Memory probes the adventurous lives of book is Carol Lloyd’s Creating a Life Worth Living
Sara's immigrant great-grandmother, her iconoclast ($14 pb, 0-06-095243-1). The ad copy says, “Carol
grandmother and folksinger mother and the lessons Lloyd motivates the person searching for two things:
Which their lives have for the present generation of the creative life and a life of sanity, happiness and
Women. Jong’s Fear of Fifty: A Midlife Memoir (writ- financial solvency. Creating a Life Worth Living is
ten about the generation of women “raised to be Doris for the hundreds of thousands of people who
a but growing to womanhood yearning to be bought... The Artist’s Way, but who are looking ai
ona Steinem”) is now available in paperback more down-to-earth solutions and concrete tasks
($13.50, 0-06-098432-5), for achieving their goals.”
Diz: new novel of note is Rebecca Brown's The Alt
88: A Modern Bestiary ($20 cl, 0-06-017441-2,
_“ovember). Set in the medieval form of a bestiary,
M t eachehse chapter has ao ™ d - arts a ‘ 3 bly a good d comp anion
i] : Intual lesson, The fea ees aie and A fun gift ch io “he vais Bookstore
er horde ofDebar, we book to the coo . Waters’ Fanny at Chez
| [Note g,.... --onmans. Sounds odd but intriquing. k Fall Catalog) is Alice +h 46
te te: Harper cancelled this book along with 100 others.] olga A Child’s Restaurant cane i aa
| on Andrews’ new book, Love and Power ($23 cl, | Panissé: b, 0-06-092868-9, Octo ‘
| %6-018646-1, November). Citi cdaslaace Recipes ($14 P ‘as of Fanny, the geven-yearo
|J . 'ween etshe need ff o r ] love “ ant de the des di er se ire f fo or r power po. we dt ah ur go hu tg eh r t oh fe fi ame e Berkeley chef Alice Waters, 1 09t 7ne
a __ “an Pie ($13 pb, 0-06-098433-3) is the latest in September /Oct
me 20 Number es 109Feminist Bookstore News
‘bes “the path food travels from the garden 0-06-095261-X, Spanish edition, Ont, ae
ae as the buble” and includes del ae include problems faced by Latinas Wee Oicg
= i “nes such as banana milkshakes an gre appropriate health care, diseases anq disoee
aa le shera bt ete . Sounds liike ke aa fun fun read and agreat gift. which Latinas are especially vulnerable a - to
*e Velma Wallis’ Bad Girl and the Man basic wellness issues. Sounds like a really = ag
Followed the Sun ($12 pb, 0-06-097728-0, October) is resource. efyl
Gctell ts of an Athabaskan folk tale about two Harper is also releasing Ruth Harriet Jacoby
Eanes who break the taboos of their sie ane classic, Be an Outrageous Older Woman 12 :
and set out on dangerous quests for freedom an 0-06-095253-9, October), previously Published .
knowledge.” Wallis is the author of the award- K.LT. Inasea of books “celebrating age,” this was One
inning Two Old Women. of the first and feistiest. The Harper edition is also
salad! A Latina’s Guide to Total Health — available on audiotape ($18, 0-694-51897-2),
Body, Mind, and Spirit, by Dr. Jane Delgado with the New in paperback is Martha Manning’s Chasing
Natioion al Hispanici Women’s‘s Health Collectiv’ e, will Grace: Reflections of a Catholic Girl, Grown Up
be published simultaneously in both Spanish and ($12, 0-06-251312-5). This book is advertised in the
English ($20 pb, 0-06-095187-7, English edition; Feminist Bookstore Network Fall Catalog. Divorced
Terminal Velocity
Blanche McCrary Boyd
In this mesmerizing new novel from the author of the
widely acclaimed The Revolution of Little Girls, Boyd
drives deep into the heart of the revolution itself, from
the unique vantage point of the radical feminist
underground in the days of rage.
Ellen Burns is a young, happily married editor for a
small Boston press who seemingly by accident and
nearly overnight finds herself in communal California,
w nh ee wr fe unsh de d pi rs ec fo ev re er ns esa n ae nw n poa lm ie ti, Ra Yi en t, hto wm a ct ac nh thh ee r
o
c d c s. o
Psyche absorb such profound
reinvention?
mC io sm ab di vn ei nn tg reB oy id n' ts tt hr ea d de am ra kr k igw hi ts d oo fm , he sa or ut an
u o
n
t he l .
Knopf 0-679-43008-3,
$23.00
hardcover
ic, aperback:
Available in Vintage p 510.00
The Redneck Way of Knowledge; 0-679-75767-8;
S
eee The Revolution of Little Girls; 0-679-73812-6, $1: 00
September/October
1997
110 Volume 20 NFeminist
Bookstore
News
veut.
sail. -
ustice: The Abuse of Women by Divorce HEINEMANN
From A and Judges by Karen Winner is also available
| | Lane rack ($13, 0-06-098720-0, October). (WenIt d lB eg ti an ds a nvw ii st h Ti ears by Opal Palmer Adisa
in ¢ Lp iia vnp iet nh ge sp ai nr di tu Da yllit iy i nt gy :s sect Pi ron a, c tna is ch ae ll ve RiT th ue a lsP ,a ggan Pa rn ay eB ro so ,Bo ok i eri y, n vigS ier li ae. n s t, e i. s jua sts‘ it0 co er ,yW o om afe nn dl) o v e‘, t hp eja r et a hlo eo u af s l y i,t n h ge a oC pa e or i wb e rmb eee of
plessings, and Meditations on Crossing Over by Womans friendships. In this first novel by Adisa, each
starhawk, M. Macha Nightmare and the Reclaiming woman's story is told in sequence and then quickly
Collective ($16, 0-06-251516-0, October) and Altars linked together, resulting in dramatic and surprising
Made Easy: A Complete Guide to Creating and developments. $13.95 pb, 0-435-98946-4.
Using Your Own Personal Altars ($16 pb, 0-06- In The Festival of San Joaquin by Zee Edgell,
951490-3, October). part of the Caribbean Writers Series, Luz Marina,
Also scheduled for release in October (Breast cleared of a murder charge for taking the life of her
Cancer Awareness Month) is Breast Cancer? Let Me brutal husband, is released from prison on a three-
Check My Schedule: Ten Remarkable Women Meet year probation. Determined to rebuild her life and
the Challenge of Fitting Breast Cancer into Their gain custody of her children, she is sustained by
Very Busy Lives ($12.50 pb, 0-465-00763-5). mother love and faith as she fights against the poverty,
Harper imprint Westview also has a number of guilt, vanity and vengeance which threaten to over-
good titles including Faces of Feminism: An Activ- whelm her. $13.95 pb, 0-435-989-480.
ist’s Reflections on the Women’s Movement ($24 cl, The Valley Nearby by Kang Sok-kyong, trans-
| 0-8133-2842-X). Best known for her groundbreaking lated by Choi Kyong-do, part of the Asian Writers
_| studies of women and math/science (Overcoming series, is a tale of a South Korean woman, Yun-hee,
| Math Anxiety), Tobias has written a broad yet specific who’s trying to reconcile cultural tradition with her
overview of the contemporary American women’s need for individuality and freedom. She is a woman
| movement from her position as both academic and engaged in a solitary struggle between the life of a
activist. Also from Westview is James T. Sears’ From housewife and the life of an advocate of equality.
‘Lonely Hunters to Lonely Hearts: An Oral History Yun-hee must balance what is and what could ITbe.
er and Gay Southern Life ($24 cl, 0-8133- $14.95 pb, 0-435-08146-2.
aa October). Focusing on accounts of coming out
i} ft end of World War II to Stonewall, Sears
cere the Teal stories of gay men and lesbians who
a a in the social hierarchy of the South and
iN | oi 4f aF a mr Uo e 0rf Fpe m a ma i 3t ia nni 2ei ni ue s s6ey n tt 0 8 ‘e a t h e eei r N stS y io wo cc u r, rSo t eue m m ha la ir Ti s Nhn a ( es eg 0 ti B b-s a r w9 eo o1a of new l 8 u rs th n3 d koa h9o de g 3 l ’ de t -e s rh C7 e ae9w l- oh w a I5 tae )u m ssn .t Cp h aer yo leo A t r avn n sh (e o s o t i tt gf nhh 0s o e t e nG xa r pi trt c os u o ,us om tws ki : o0p i t -lq cn e 0u 6g oho o ,A nif s C 0L H- ioo e8 tv tm 0 he em 5 rV 0i Mote - at C 5 hn rem 3o ou ixe 5 ums au5n e a- at ls 7 T, ., ii n ) ito ro S orS np h vsu W oT ohr wh go kis s uy w p: n n; gt iY aT h no a nh bu -t x pe y ci e hp yH t acS yeS hh t.ae e ke c d i lr l oe a f io Krt o cmr aiG abF pi ay l!t le h l m aoe oa noo Bnl l .e aoye l. lrme c (eF r( $e i$ e ta 1e i4r ae 7a. 7 bo .f
| I k 3 0 . ) e i a h e N dn e t e G e i n n g u hr o tf A or $ 2 , bS b c i te n e - e d n l ada t t o n ie - s e e o g s o c i al c b s m e ev a n 2t o n .r s 5y
g h t - p o
| e i o e g o o t e e t e w s P m n y
e e e F l l l 0 , |
pe Sts. Boo— kA su td or re e/y ei mf pM ha iy Tallchief
Meristem M s Maria Sept ember/October 1997
111Fe tO0m -i oe8 nn 0 i 5 os e0 nrt - 3 3 heB eM0 r2 ao - ro 5 lbk ie- s ) .t Io rnT er dh ie ce a an N d ae 2auw 3ng rs dh et e ba ior d to e hf t aeea r .mf u i ol DTn rl rdb e oa’dl o o Sd lc ee yo d t s oO ldk I learl ai ra ns y- h h i 0t Me h -m r a A7p t 8o C6sm 8s do M-i it b s Uh 2l te 8e Ra 1r n Rc 5e d t i h s Ya t mt a a n kcf ee e &e s. l ” s , EfoHi Crn o Kw ah er p s oh ieo gw nn u a l nt tiw mo ar td aes l, ; |; e oe .s“ 9a n
e e h , e i ia e f o b e h em r e o n d f r t d h y w — o hl i s s t e e g e On : : 6 - ; . . 5 )
i. A B
f e
. In The Medusa Tree by Myléne Dressler, Mar
HYPERION
seiY te s ra a ur c go gC lo lh f l ei e dml M c d to it o sh lno uf e rr o vf wM h ai o v2 ln eo 8e dd: ,c ane aW d od nr fi i di t d t e le d ir n tfs ea hb rry ir vaT eC eta lh dlil r vk i e s as dt uA i rb in ino a nu w gt h B ia hck tot he h wh er e m K oF tl t fi hi ir h en rs - syet Jdgs m mi arar an pka dg aen el ne s d m soa t fo eMh n t e ad h hr oee gg crs r e r ce s tc a r pne andwt tel h m ny iwi o dl olte nyhp er tse vr ohh fg us e en l a tnn hsd en et e r e, c a wi b Dld l ug eye eo s .e s f w S rra et h iio t Ea el a, ntl a ci tgv a ae t n si o Id nw si dd to it p, euh r e t A hh e ee r s h aeaa n a s
r s f r o a l k s t b o u t i r t o p g r a m o r ’ tx cp he s e n d sr i n g
, i e u
year of motherhood. Original essays from Susan
AC W lih lne ete gev rre an r i, t Gz , o oM dMo e mn g aa n ,W oS lii at nm z dp e rs ,o o n tS h, a e r ra s hN a aB ro i em rdi , i ncV laW l uo e dl r ef i d, e . SH $a 2ye 1el .re 9sn , 5 cW f oaW nm fi ll iy c I tL, of tt oh w i os p m re ois vn i,t d h ee whs oot no er y m a anno of a tg ha e en d r ex d set as ne p cn i td t ue e ad r yd .i a sn td $a 1 n 8c .o e 5 0e I m r8 4
1-878448-75-7.
cl, 0-7868-6233-5.
In Unravelling, a novel by Elizabeth Graver,
Aimee Slater has always dreamed of a life beyond the NORTON
small New Hampshire farm her family owns. When, Dreams of the Centaur by Montserrat Fontes
against her mother’s wishes, 5 she goes off at the age of brings to light, 7 for the first time in fic ct ti i on, the tragi
15 to work in the City of Spindles —the factory town | enslavement of the Yaqui Indians by Porfirio Dir’
of Lowell, MA— she opens a rift between herself and regime at the turn of the last century. Told through i
Eroticism and Enlightenment in
Eighteenth-Century France
edited by Michel Feher
Libertinism Started as a movement of philosophical
skepticism in the 17th century but is most closely
ene Daaree associated with its later incarnation as the ruling
Choderios de Laclos, Spirit. of the underemployed upper classes of 18th
2V ivant DJeenno n, Crébillon fils : c: entury France. It contil nues to iinnttrir igue b f
sMapreq uiPrsedie i crS ade, | eIts ef ocus on the th relatii onshipj betweene e genda er e and
ne es and on the fundamental question of wh
_ Lommentators: _. lovers really w is j oe
“Catherine Cusset, wee y ant. This is an anthology of nine major
So ie ae ibertinism by six authors, each introduced
March HenaJeafn fSga,rd, y a contemporary scholar.
Chantal Thomas _ o Distributed for z
f Zone Books * 1,324 $
Pri n iT co e s or hd ie j gr h ec ra ll o u“ t sib d e the U3 .4 S3 . a( nU dS & s ubC ja en ca td a t) o co hr an( g6 e17 ) wi6 t2 ho5 u- t8 56 no9 t. | ; He Ti se00 pap Me! I Tht tp:/ P/m ritp ere sss s.m —iLed eu
i ce
h =
September/October 1997
ee
Volume20 Numbe
112Feminist
Bookstore
News
He
aa Hl BI
j ci rv ee as t edof 2 th re a ncD hu rc oa ul ts of— thea dM ee sx ei rtc an — itf am isi l ay l so wh tho e sh ta ov re y c tah li el s dh ao no d d rea cin pd e s,m otherh ood with immigrant family
of the mystical bond between Alejo and Felipa, his Prince Charmi , :
sone willed loving mother. Grand in scope, power- Get Smart Aboutiina “ee Coming: How Women
ful in emotional detail, Dreams of the Centaur is a 0-670-86689-X, Viking ee ewe Stanny. ($22.95,
sweeping work about family, history, and our respon- primer for women on how io sa ne (practice!
sibility to make choices. $13 pb, 0-393-31605-X. —JT ce financial life. Weaves together ce pent ee
and anecdotes along wi : :
steps to take right nba See bck:
Going to Ground: Simple Life on a Georgia
Pond by Amy Blackmarr. ($21.95, 0-670-87567-8
Viking.) Warmth, charm and humor color a cy
Let's Hear It for the Girls: 375 Great Books for woman's Thoreauvian essays upon returning to her
Readers 2-14 edited by Erica Bauermeister and Holly roots in the pinewoods of rural Georgia.
Smith. A great resource. $10.95, 0-14-025732-2. When She Was Bad: Violent Women and the
The Heart's Progress: A Lesbian Memoir by Myth of Innocence by Patricia Pearson. ($23.95,
Claudia Bepko. ($23, 0670859214, Viking.) A story 0-670-85925-7, October, Viking.) A look at female
about the proverbial joys and sorrows of lesbian life violence, thought provoking and controversial. Our
from a woman who came out in the late sixties/early culture, she says, is in denial of women’s innate
seventies and has lived to middle age to tell about it. capacity for aggression. Pearson wrote Backlash with
Penguin Book of Modern Fantasy by Women Susan Faludi.
| edited by A. Susan Williams and Richard Glyn Jones A Century of Women: The History of Women in
eo 140243364) includes 38 short stories written Britain and the United States by Sheila Rowbotham.
($34.95, 0-670-87420-5, December, Viking.) Charts a
es from 1941 to the present. It features new
dices from four continents and writers better known century of changes and interchanges in the lives of
for other fiction su ch as Joyce Carol Oates, Fa women and the ways they themselves have deter-
Weldon, and PD. James. ss 4 mined the course of history. Includes lesbian culture.
oa Party by Carol Shields. ($22.95, 0-670- My Mother Had a Dream: African American
ee iking.) Shields is author of the Stone Diaries. Women Share Their Mothers’ Words of Wisdom by
af to l tl ho ew s enL da rr oy ’s urli fe c, ew nh tui rc yh —m irr wo itr hs t th ae gm ea tl ee T Tha im sa r ba autN ii fk uu lr a gd ifs te . olu($ m1 e0 .9 c5, ptu0 r- e4 s5 2- t2 h7 60 l5 ov- e5 ,, hoP pl eu me a. n)
_ con*dhidtiit ion f o r d e v a e d
cW ait n, lsun ae yr er .j © poi: gnancy and faultless wisdom. What m do aut gi hv Wta het ari tso n oot mh ma et w neo am ne tin h ta Jov oe g e rn nep era yas ts ie to od n . eo rn ont ao th ae ni dr
Wfr nge Wr a t :o n
A u P s l
| V0 i5 s~2 i4 o5 9 n-D - .9 9 a 4u 1g 0h 9t -e 6r ,s Ocof t obt eh re , Du Dus tt t onb .y ) Ju Dli ae s h Das hah s. p( u$ t2 3.9 h5 e, r iti by Patricicii a dI .r el Ian rd e. l an( d$ 12. a9 d5, d re0 s- s45 e2 s-
|| = ch aractee rs ee at l ro ev ae cd q uf ar io nm t s he ur s f wi ilm t h on ht eo r t mhe a rp va eg le o u— s e2 ab7 o2e r4 t9e i- o1 n , , s aP frl fiu rem me ae. t) i ve p ae t ae ne ee aee vhac th oi hc ae s, bd eo em ne s Wt Oi Nc
| More y extending their tale in greater and even vio dl enc we h at an md u stm or se ti, l l r be e nu d one. & Know About
He 0 67~~ 0 ! -i 8 6Pem 0 p 9e 8l .ii n, K i& tcW hay es n. by Elizabeth Ehrlich. ($23.95, and troW W g h ea n:t NE av te ur ry a l Wo & ma Tn ra diN te ie od nas l n t T Ho h ue tr ca hp ii ne s: s o n fo ar nda
Estrog Ithier Life by Kare
Longer, Hea
September / October 1997
113Bookstore News
Feminist
ee et i h ie ira g ese s bt lr eo age an ba ouhb t o o wk e?- s 4 t5 e2 O r- h n2 77 mg3 eo9 do- d i6 i, cL e ii. n P el u Am aue nt. dh) o r hosW l h ia sa tt ar ir! ce { pwS ro o ou m bn e ld Tn e h m es a fd i Wv tn h hi d a c ite t r ee t a hla rin e Bsd at l i t ac e c np k r bsa io tc hl rt eu di it :c ri a ol wn e As l lt e Lt ioc b feh ein t ni h geq . o u f e as t he ¢ T Ee el ah te el g
De i sey s‘y iin ng s t Hh ee avb eno ’sa o p Gkr ae tt e t :y g Ao no d Ab na tla hn oc le. o gy of MM oa or rg ea .r et (t $ 14.S 9a 5r ,g en 0t -1 4-b 0y 2 49H 2e 0r - 6.G )r a Mn od od ra ey s hh at se r c ea a oe ™
PS lue mir ei Thd ir ai et dti ien tg s ss tby e on chW Ci ao t tim he oe ln i( $ 13 Ge . i9d r5i l,t e d 0 c- e4 l5b e2y b- r2 a7A t6 em 2 b 1-e t4r h, wpo or mtr aa ni t wo hf he hr gr ara tn isd tm ico th ame br tioth na st tt he ea irc he as ka ated a
.) e o r f c s e o a s i
ower and diversity of women’s spirituality in this makes a case for their nurturing and slirvival | and
collection of more than 60 works by such writers as Women’s Wheel of Life: Thirteen Arc hetypes of
Kathleen Norris, Mary Karr, and Linda Hogan. Focus Woman at Her Fullest Power by Elizabeth
Davis ang
of the anthology is contemporary, multicultural and Carol Leonard. ($11.95, 0-14-019505-x.) A NeW vision
cross-denominational. of a woman’s lifetime that focuses on her
™MOst pow-
Ultimate Stress Handbook for Women by erful years.
Al:
Ursula Markham. ($10.95, 1-85230-857-5, Element.) A
guide to stress management for women of all ages.
in
ON OUR OVWN
NOW IN PAPER:
Loverboys: Stories by Ana Castillo. ($11.95,
Unmarried Motherhood in America 0-452-27773-6, Plume.) A collection of short stories
Melissa Ludke which display Castillo’s unique perspective on the
joys and sorrows of love, in its many configurations,
In 1950,
including lesbian.
4 percent of
How Stella Got Her Groove Back by Terry
American babies
McMillan. ($6.99, 0-451-19200-1, Signet.) Bold, sassy
were born to tale of a successful woman’s dramatic change of life
unwed mothers and ideas when she begins a relationship with a
who often gave younger man.
their children Up Penguin Book of Erotic Stories by Women
for adoption. edited by Richard Jones and Susan Williams. ($12.95,
Today the figure is 0-14-024531-6.) Collection of women’s writing that
up to one third, celebrates eroticism in all its forms.
Rosie by Anne Lamott. ($11.95, 0-14-026479-5,
and their mothers
Penguin.) From the bestselling author of Bird by Bird
now, usually raise
and Operating Instructions, a reprint of this witty and
these children on
— wise novel about growing pains, coming-of-age
their-own.
faving together mothers’ experiences and coping with distracted parents.
with
aa ifr lldoe slc os ouu le msa e ie lr s ns oc c ch e ino tntn io s nn gt tw ac ho enh ii d rrl dd air Vw ss ae o sn p ma fr e a a nn t cdd e mo ff g v mea r e om ro ei nul pi te s hs e cc, o naf cM g ee em rl o ni t ts oh afs e na r 3s c5 Lu — gd — t k e 0 c EL d-o o i1v m t4e m i-, oe M 0 nn2y .a 4 t ”n 4 a 3d tF 6 i o-r r0Fs .t o )r ogW ni Ph v oi e Nwt n aee e tr s if os uF n lr a i lbe y tn ad l P: eP u a bt o lC fr i io cc rn i af a c Re i —aas DdlRs iai rohyo ’ oebn s tao s l hn i y. “n Wgo en ( e of$ k l1 rR e l1a o a. nc m n9e d@ d,,
a t g
t ol y oi f r t oi r c u m s o H
b
a a e
n
PUTNAM
Random
House
0-679-424] 4-8, $25.95 hardcover Gir: l L aa ns dt T thi em e aI dW no er se a oD re Gs es n: erA Me Idm eo ni tr yo f pc ea te
M s f d it
September /October 1997 by Daphne Scholinski and Jane Adams. ($237 ©
3
114 Volume 20 Num
ENNFeminist
Bookstore
= a News
Hehit..
J @ G !
1 p5 o7 m3 b2 o2 y0 7 s7 a9 h o o pR li g io fv t te ir nh i ge n ,ta od . e) s t co .m ,S ec h ao nml di i n ns ok lri a ndtw era o ds u bla ie n1 4 a- as y e maa er nt- e to e al n ld - eAn no ct oh ue rr a gee mm ep no tw e tr o in tag p ib nto oo k t he fr co rm ea tC ia vem e sr pio rin t . len Sd ai l en
posp «ae irt tf e ae la e tomS e i‘ dt eh nta i f‘ c ya s ae s ao f se“ xG ue an d | e fr em alI ed )e .n ti Tt hy e D ti rs eo ar td me er n” t ery Wa tt ech r ou st eesfo .r Patr Ci hovc k ia e C aorn w— elD l eo 'r so eth Uy n naHo tl u Yl ra San ld
(failure scribed was to “become more obsessive
Ties. eck in with Lucy, Scarpetta’s
PD aplessing boys, to learn about makeup....” gorgeous lesbian computer-whiz niece, Marino,
oe as released at the age of 18 when insurance Scarpetta’s crusty homicide-detective friend and
ed to pay any more over the one million dollars Benton, FBI profiler and Scarpetta’s love interest, as
that had been spent on her treatment! Each year Scarpetta finds herself being stalked by a killer.
approximately 50,000 teenagers are committed to $25.95 cl, 0-399-142851.
mental hospitals with a Gender Identity Disorder And if you haven’t heard of Necessary Madness
diagnosis. Scholinski’s ultimate survival and thriv- by Jenn Crowell, a 19 year-old who grew up in Penn-
ing is an unforgettable story. Advertised in the sylvania, and who sold her first book for six figures at
Feminist Bookstore Network Fall Catalog. the age of 19, you should check it out. The tale of a
Initiation: A Woman’s Spiritual Adventure in 30-year-old American woman and mother coping
the Heart of the Andes by Elizabeth B. Jenkins. with the death of her husband living in England.
($22.95, 0-399-1436-2.) A spiritual adventure tapping $21.95 cl, 0-399-14525. —JT
into the natural sacred energies of the earth with Juan,
Al:
an initiated priest of the Andean Path as her guide.
Here on Earth by Alice Hoffman. ($23.95, 0-399-
14313-0.) After 20 years of living in California, March
returns to the small Massachusetts town where she RANDOM HOUSE
srew up — and finds the town much more complex On Our Own: Unmarried Motherhood in
than she ever realized. America, Melissa Ludtke. Blends real life and re-
No Hiding Place by Valerie Wilson Wesley. search, looks at both adolescent and over-35 mothers.
(621.95, 0-399-14318-1.) To honor a debt from the past, $25.95 cl, 0679424148.
Pivate eye Tamara Hayle reluctantly takes on a case Even the Stars Look Lonesome, Maya Angelou.
farmore complex than it first seems that challenges Here Angelou writes about Africa, aging, Oprah,
pet assumptions about class, crime and community. sexuality, rage, violence, sensuality, and more 4
| Wes *} € y is one of the hottest names on the female crime imparting her lessons of a lifetime. A must carry! $
‘Wniting scene. I love her writing. -375-50031-6.
t Straight, No Chaser: How I Became a Grown-Up sat ole Language of Eating Bonga
Black W oman by Jill Nelson. ($23.95, 0-399-14262-2.) A tionary New Approach to Understanding and Curing
Petson. look at the challenges Black women face Anorexia and Bulimia, Peggy , Claude- aP ti ie rre. Oprah t
‘| Stugglin ie ‘ncide with publication. Folks a
f 8 for identity in a hostile culture. follow-up visit to coincide Ws book. $25, 0812928423.
© FarEuphrates by Aryeh Ley Stollman. ($21.95, | FBN are very excited about ea nuenta Guide
| Ee e2075-2) The me. Reni — ea s of a Living Beyond Breast oie a eect
*
S bi Whose small world is touched by an unlikely for When Treatment “ethos Ys d Ellen Weiss. Answers
"© Of people, as he grows up to become a gay man. | Begins, Marisa sed a from relationships to
| tive oe Steps: Prayers & Declarations for aCrea- | the ame Anat $05.95 0812926897, October:
—_* °Y Julia Cameron. ($9.95, 0-87477-899-9:) | alternative therapies. eae Oa
i—“STm e20 —N umbers
1 115Feminist Bookstore News
I’m Too Young to Get Old: Health Care for Fulfillment, Cathleen Rountree. Interviews and
Women After Forty, Judith Reichman, M.D. Regular of women working against stereotypes anq rePahdo;t og
columnist for American Health magazine and an beyond common assumptions about 60 year olds cH
OB/GYN writes about heart attacks, osteoporosis, 0517707578, October. 924
cancer and bladder problems with clarity, passion and Why People Don’t Heal and How They ¢
Caroline Myss. No-nonsense discussion of how Peon
humor A. G$ i1 r6 l, 0 N8 e1 e2 d9 s2 42 C5 a8 s, h : Ja Hnu oa wr y. to Dump the White use illness to give meaning to their lives, Myss’ Anais e
Knight Myth and Take Charge of Your Financial of the Spirit set out her ideas on the mind-body-health
Future, Joan A. Perry with Dolores A. Barclay. Former connection and is due out in paperback from
investment banker gives guidance for long-term Rivers Press in August. $25, 0609600907, November,
financial security whether you are young or old. $23, Law of Love, Laura Esquivel. The Story of
0812928407. Azucena, an astroanalyst, and her struggle to find her
Al: twin soul, Rodrigo, with whom she was able to share
only one night of passion — before he disappeareq|
E This book is about reincarnation, soul mates, and fate,
$16, 0609801279, October.
RH-Crown Let’s Talk About Sex: A Guide to Sex and Sexu-
Room of Her Own: Women’s Personal Spaces, ality for the Whole Family, Planned Parenthood. $19
Chris Casson Madden. Photography and descrip- 0609801465, October.
tion of 35 private spaces created as retreats by Moosewood Restaurant Book of Desserts,
women. Easy to adapt ideas both inspiring and Moosewood Collective. Advertised in the Feminist
practical. $30, 0517599392. Bookstore Network Fall Catalog. $22 pb, 0517884933;
On Women Turning 60: Embracing the Age of $35 cl, -702096, October.
NEW FROM SR BOOKS
Confronting
Controlling
Rape and Reproduction
VAARLS. OF OMEN
C O N F R O N T I N S Ede itx edu a byl MaryA s E.s Oa du eml t An American History
Edited by Andrea Tone
and Jody Clay-Warner
x
A “Tam the only dead thing here, “A suggestive look at the boundaries
kneeling here beside the water's edge that have restricted women's lives by
without a mouth
the gendering of reproductive control
to pray, without hands to clasp or
and choices...”
Pp implore, without —Esther Katz,
a the eyes that mutely screamed, and Editor, The Margaret Sanger Papers
were ignored,”
New York University
Bw be Stase Che und nds ae Barer —“This really happened,”
a Rape Sonnet by Andi L. Rosenthal Si Rite ads ae
ipa ni fC n ofo run mlf tr io i on s nt s ,i u en g io tfR a p se ce x nua tan rld buS v te i ox o ru l sa e l n c feA r.s s ma u al I tt vie an rx c ia l em u ti ydn ee s s tt h fh e ie ldc m so o m sp t nl ce lrx ue dc iea nnn gtd cv oi nd teC rso lm ,ip nr s we ig hh h ie t n hs ai nv d e vpe ia r en s wd p e dc i tn if iv no er tm ha eot ni cv oe th n, e exC h tio ssn t t or r oo i fl c l a pli n lg ip ta it cR h se ,p or f lo ad wru ,e c pt r mi o eo d dn u ic ct ii npf o eo n ,-
a w h o i o o f e i
o c is e t o
swoocmieonl’osg y,s tudpiessy chology, criminology, la public:
8Y, law, health and Sexuality, business, and social change.
292 pp. with suggested readings and films
Paper ISBN 0-8420-2599-5 $16.95 243 pp. with Suggested readings and films
SR books can be ordered from your favo riP tap ee r wI hS oBN l e0 s- a84 l2 e0- r2 575 o- r8 d$ i16 r. e95 c tly from SR Books
SR Books ¢ 104 Greenhill Ave, e Wilmington, DE 19805 * 800-772-8937 © 302-654-7713 © FAX 302-654-3878
September/October 1997
116 Volume 20 NumFY Feminist
Bookstore
News
aif i
S
L
aii
M
E
ow to Succeed in Business Without a Penis:
H
T and Strategies for the Working Woman,
Secrets Imansohn. $12, 0609801414, October.
M Karen Sa
RH-Knopt
Selected Letters of Marianne Moore, Bonnie
aeC rso tt ss ,t i e n l fl ato sh, e h ie oat nr t a sl , a. nrC de o lr i sgr pi oe o rs n t, .p o pn $o 3d l 5e i ,t n ic c 0e s 6, 7 9s p 4h s 3o y 9w c 0s h 9o ,l t oh Oge cy t,p o o be edt ros .m ei sn tte ir c- L tia oc nsh mH di a ul n rd ie ng i ga m r ad hg e: i n e 8sT h te hH i ylL ed aa e rs ,t g a ar Y d pe ’a esr , ot dhB oa u ir ngb ha wtr hsa ca hnL da sc hh erm efa wln e ac. s-
r 0 r i i
The New Your Baby & Child from Birth to Age forbidden to cele brate divine office. $18 cl,
Five, Penelope Leach. Child-care manual revised for 1570623155, October.
0fi 3r 7s 5t 70t 0i 0m 0e 5 ; s $i 35n ce cl , i -t 1s 0 001 79 97 .8 publication. $20 pb, UnitaM rio at nh er ivM ey rs sat le ir si te s, iniM sa ter re n andT o pn sd ye cr otH hea rn as pe in s.
Un m h t
Jane Austen: A Biography, Claire Tomalin. The explores sacred dimension of motherhood by taking
author, her family and neighbors are described within reader through morning sickness to postpartum
their social setting shedding new light on the novels. depression and working outside the home and find-
$27.50, 0679446281, November. ing deepest spiritual realities along the way. $12 pb,
1570622523, November.
RH-Pantheon
Killing the Black Body: Race, Reproduction, and
the Meaning of Liberty, Dorothy Roberts. Describes
the destructive effects of society’s attempts to control
Black women’s bodies over the last 250 years — from
slave holders to 90s welfare policy — and calls for a Killer Instinct by Martina Navratilova and Liz
change. Also see Raves. Advertised in Feminist Book-
Nickles is the final installment of the mystery trilogy
Store Network Fall Catalog. $26, 067944226X, October. starring Jordan Myles. Myles discovers that the brutal
| My Sister Life: The Story of My Sister’s Disap- competition of tennis is nothing compared to the dog-
Pearance, Maria Flook. Memoir of a woman reunited eat-dog world of product merchandising. $25 cl,
With her sister after the sister had disappeared, came 0-679-43392-9.
Out of child Prostitution, and time in a mental institu-
h- tion. $25, 0679442081, RH-Vintage
J anuary.
COMING IN PAPERBACK:
Founding Mothers & Fathers: Gendered Power
ca an nd cnt oh le iF so tor slm i rn bg eo ff A rm eae dr ai bc ea en S po lc oi re at ty p, i e os oe
: N ra et ci ov vC e ool t RW 1e 2a c -t o se v tr e e: r y ,A “l W hc i io glh hlo eil rai ms m pA, ol we exM a rni ”dn ed rf f. ou rl On f ae f ds e ds r is, ta il oa t nen r sd - N o r to . o nS c h ’a l y e lib u t s e l ex i ro in v il: eg
1 e © p c
—| i _‘mS, M K _oti:a h '. t “i < eu ta 'n dse n a© ©s T us )h g.r hD oa tu u ep @gb g P r, hh P lt b1 G ie t o5 eh or n7 e d/ d 0 D d .6 Ge e2 o ta s2 o $dt s 25 dh 4 e’ tX s s h. cS e s p iB r 0pDr i 8ei rt 7d um o 7e ae m 7: lt iie 9t sr y 0I e /n 3/n Xe pa .Pr n re d or s bT er lJa p u en h n ms o gf n io e ar , n o- f p esS e ‘t en eah si tn i oe n1 .9 8a 4 uA l a o m r sn o r oS a Gi l us l y aa , ttn h ide r oi nle Ma l oema r n o.o fn a n $ lgi 1 o 2o nS, g a id ir m0 nm p6 gs 7 s 9 oJ 7 inpo na . tn o e bn C eo li m ool i ne a ln gcd i nga a a s ise i e e
d 4 l , 3 B a n f r m
September /October 1997
Olume 20 Ne | 3
117Feminist Bookstore News
man into a father when a ten-year-old anthology presents women from some 30 count;
“an i lla egr ita ima te” ae hte =r suddenly comes into his life. s agh eo dw in tog reh so isw t w opo pm re en ss iot nh ro au ng dh o gu at i n hi ps ot wor ey r h aav ee = =
ctober. lives. Also offers insight into questions aboyt Dowd
en ee e : Invention: W ico am n en Ci vilo f Wt ah re , S Dla rv ee w- that women are posing today. Advertised in the Fe e
holding South in the America hern “ladies” of nist Bookstore Network Fall Catalog. $299 5 a
CG ii vl ip li n W arFa u es rt a. dS ro ac wia nl fh ri os mt or dy i ariof e s S ao nu dt he Srn a at“la ae : 0-415 P- o91 s5 t3 f1 e- m7; ni$ s74 m. s9 :5 cl F, e- m9 i1 n53 i0 s- m9. Pd,
i , Cultura] Theo
period. Winner of Frances Parkman Prize and Avery
Craven Prize. $15, 0679781048, October. and Cultural Forms, Anne Brooks. In this clear expo.
sition of some of the major debates, theorists and
Last Night in Paradise: is me oe re
s End, Kate Roiphe. Roiphe repor practitioners, Brooks shows postfeminism as the
Sean has been affected by the fear of AIDS, theoretical meeting ground between feminism dnd
the educators and ideologues who play on the fear, anti-foundationalist movements (postmodernism
post-structuralism, post-colonialism). Catalog claims
and what she calls a new puritanism. $12, 0375700536,
November. this is for readers looking for guidance through
“sometimes murky waters of contemporary feminist
Love Invents Us, Amy Bloom. Novel from
acclaimed short story writer shows how profoundly theory.” $18.95 pb, 0-415-11475-6; $69.95 cl, -11474.9
the forces of love shape our lives. $12, 0-375-75022-3, The Menstrual Cycle, Anne Walker, lecturer at
January.
University of Leeds. Presents a well-researched study
Ladies’ Gallery: A Memoir of Family Secrets, of the entire menstrual cycle and its relationship to
Irene Vilar. Formerly titled Message from God in the women’s lives. As with most Routledge titles, this looks
Atomic Age. Three generations of Puerto Rican women rather scholarly. $18.95 pb, 0-415-16331-5; $65 cl, -16330-7.
caught in a cycle of alienation and self-destruction:
grandmother, Lolita Lebron, martyr for Puerto Rican OCTOBER TITLES
independence; mother who leapt from speeding car to The Eight Technologies of Otherness, Sue Gold-
her death; and daughter, Irene, whose days in a psy- ing, ed. The catalog copy tests my limits. My guess is
chiatric hospital prompt her to try to understand all if you have an academic community doing textual
their stories. $13, 0679745467, January. analysis or cultural studies, you will want this. $19.95
Original paperback: Imagining Characters: Six pb, 0-415-14579-1; $74.95 cl, -14580-5.
Conversations About Women Writers: Jane Austen, Straight Science? Homosexuality, Evolution
MCh ua rr dl oo ct hte , B ar no dn te T, o ni Ge Mo or rg re i soE nl ,i ot, A .S.W il Bl ya a ttC at ah ne dr , IgnIr ei ss Ua nn id veA rd sa ip tt y ion of, WJ ei sm t eM re nN ig Sh yt d, n eyC ,h ai Ar u sto rf a lP is ay .c ho El xo plg oy r esat
wS rsio oexd ur dre n. W elr $si t 4ee ,rr 0B 6ty 7oa 9t 7tt a P5bn ad p eis ny wc ih oto nmhda bn era rrel l.y s nt LS io nnd rwr He ec Mcr oi t si rq nu Ide oh -oho 4mim 1oco 5shs e 1xux 5utu 7a 3l -i 0t ;y na ics 9a p eir lo b tfl 1e 5om 2f -o 2r oe vv io sl itu tit eoi .o n ea $r 1y t 5h e so pr boy
t n en ro v .re a 1d i s n f r e he 7 e- 7 w rh 3 oe 9 i oe , rkl i s N o Mg v o e /i As c u ns i es wi g o e — tn d o deh as ei p ic gh ht t w w a i yl l L h 0w f e v o -e l c l 7aia loi inm . ts y , t S h i $a 6t t e .s nu 5etc hc e d cs s s s -hu tel o r 7r by e e p ir rg end ou rc e s dn t h is o t r 8 h i .e g 9 i c n a u s e ,f
9 , 7 .
Al: Lesbians and Lesbianisms: A Post-Jungian
Perspective, Claudette Kulkarni. Explores the lesbian
experience from both a feminist and Jungian stand-
ROUTLEDGE
point, presenting a link between theory and
SEPTEMBER TITLES experience which is consistent with both approaches:
Chapters of author’s narrative are interspersed with
interviews with lesbians showing it was the pursult
of their lesbian desire that provided significant opP ee
tunity for individuation and growth. (In other words;
coming out is good for you.) $21.95 pb, 0-415-15511-4)
$69.95 cl, -15510-x.
118 SS 4
Volume 20 Numbéa e
Feminist
Bookstore
News
b i l . s E l e u i r . .
BiS ot eo tr hie is c s,a nd H iT lh de ei r LL ii nm dit es m: anN nar ra Nt ei lv se o n.A pp Ar no sac wh ee rs s j $o 2u 0r .n 95a l cla , s 0t -h 3e 1 2a -u 1t 6h 8o 3r 9 -Xf ,ig hts ovarian cancer and wins!
1 o0 © osan about what kind lio mf i tsw or tok e tht ih ical stories can The Serpentine Cave by Jill Pa
oe and what are the imi s to this work. Offers of Booker finalist Ketuledge amg
reflections on the relationship between narrative and story containing a true one: a powerfully crafted ae
ethics. $18.95 pb, 0-415-91910-X; $69.95 cl, -91909-6, of memory and loss, birthand rebirth, and past regrets
The Thin Woman: Feminism, Post-Structural- that still have power over the present. $20.95 cl, 0-312-
ism and the Social Psychology of Anorexic Women,
Helen Malson. From London comes this research
offering new feminist and post-structuralist insights
into the problem of anorexia nervosa. $18.95 pb, 0-415-
16332-3; $65 cl, -16332-3.
Body Talk: The Material and Discursive Regu- The Tribes of Palos Verdes by Joy Nicholson. As
lation of Sexuality, Madness and Reproduction, Jane Medina’s parents’ marriage disintegrates and her
Ussher, ed. Again from England, this anthology puts twin brother drifts away from her, Medina turns to
forth a new “material-discursive” approach to psy- surfing for solace. But no matter how much control
chology and urges a move away from the traditional she gains over the sea, her life at school and home are
binary approach. $18.95 pb, 0-415-15364-6; $69.95 cl, chaotic. $19.95 cl, 0-312-15677-4, October.
-15363-8. Madam Secretary: A Biography of Madeleine
Feminist Approaches to Art Therapy, Susan Albright by Thomas Blood. From her family’s escape
Hogan, ed. Leading international practitioners in this from Communists in Czechoslovakia to her rise to
field explore the ways in which gender issues can be power as the first woman United States Secretary of
addressed in art therapy. $22.95 pb, 0-415-14840-5, State. $24.95 cl, 0-312-17180-3.
$74.95 cl, -14839-1. —Mary Ellen Kavanaugh Self and Soul: A Woman’s Guide to Enhancing
My Sisters’ Words/Syracuse NY Self-Esteem Through Spirituality, by ordained
Methodist minister Adele Wilcox, provides her meth-
ods of enhancing self-esteem to the reader: practicing
forgiveness, self-control and gentleness to counter
L: negative emotions, creating confidence through self-
acceptance, and exploring how patience can result in
Bie es in Natural Healing for Women is rich personal rewards. $17.95 cl, 0-87596-446-X,
Daybreak/ Rodale.
| | | Boa dit ha dh t ,en r ve t se h i 0v e ei .cW e 8 FeV go n 7i “tr n 5t 6cil 9 a e yoo “ 6d n ds i 6¢ e - oL M 3c effO 6 aaf e 4M A rt rT -. el e 1h t Lrt ,e oe in A e g gar r r s u hRt ha n io ti o eap :d vm d ty e e aa H ni h let cv Ae eae t h — ato l re l ht tr e PM th oh rrhDa e ee arp d s pB nu siy yno e .g c o e e- i Lk dwa RF en s se mn tr ee . sd e te c” t ete o C fh H ab oe ei wtyr dR rna o ob se f l ms m t o oh e r te ge hn bmd st yo a .pi ce t e ”e d oM ci Hs i p ia o et fys n $o ai s 2r c tf 7s ca a hr aa . lg elo n 9le l rom d 5ysf p= owtt tio fnh ah h e cia vi kent o kF u i eW u e rn —r th fa esu ea ms r imt sp e anmo ai l na nni f sA dr dt io o tr i t f r sc se e a m w s flF r a t oW e i b,n rt te i am iy wh es ci ai b r k. s rn wnF o ’ i .k di i d — t i .ig os ty tUn ”th ui H m irg re et s s r i w etu —n a b ,h hl Mg ny io a d ass m rJF h ooo o iea rw K r .a s ya ls ? ,n n d yo n Lt t ou neaS esr e d sc nx i e G d, R r H- uo e nu r i c osR cnb btsa t k. rn oc h ieoe i rneki a, s n“ .n gd d gR s“ uiC a nl os $n 2l.a e 7t ec os .o s ros e 5s ei , u id k gs r u !n 4 aca 8 to h gan 8 twe-d ha n
: t a
L v ne r t e S e a s o n s i f i a e 9 c l,
a Y f C a e a d o v y
0-312-15198-5.
“moff is part medical diary and part nature
September/ October 1997
119
semenFeminist Bookstore N ews
t of global trends an d November.) A classic, now revised, updat
ithi analysisin expanded. Covers the legal, financial] and at and
the
e aaP* e x ey p es n l ca o tS r tht aee es mn -a ah ie t le dh eee ae i -dnc te .r h h t e d eeh a t aie Ps r d o h e oD n o dh bse cu o av su bpH e f es la hoor l he cr yoo ouo i up l ts t sl h d yi be eee esn hh g o to f f lool ip rn dW rd o smo os ar da s : itl ut f i ad r lf re o v is e e bn i , r rD v e b ai bn ry a lv o n ete e sS hr .Py i s nl c: v t $i hay 6sa e 9o r c .i 9a ea eA ot e n cP le ,a Aar c m Se fg -h a ta e r6i t rl i8l h ei c4dt n aB -ri tg ne e 8hlo ts n 3f ea h 7c e A4o a f n 5i k mH n -d e- e c i raE tr v ,t h r iyoe h e t ce ra e ct aNd Aei no of .n b f r g yt i ee tcP mnt rae D aw na deoo sd rni tA ,f n ih mf aa i e nfc p so ru ,rp il y t M rc eaa cst r ona ia h i on en e kd d S )p iSs c gWrot o ii a Tn t lb u wf l Ullu oe p: ias an}h m d aN T co sEag l mM t ee nEi ass eao c lf ( on $ ut 1a f e r l o r t 4. r o.
a l r a s f r a i 5 0 5 v b F i d e . h e I .
i o i n
Ai ate Young Was Very Heaven” Women in nourish the body and cooking up stories to ribet
New York Before the First World War Sandra nth the soul, come together in this entertaining look at the
captures on paper the women who played integra many ingredients that enrich our lives.
roles in American life and letters, from Emma Gold- Five Lesbian Brothers’ Guide to Life: A Collec.
man to Charlotte Perkins Gilman, while evoking the tion of Helpful Hints and Fabricated Facts for
now-lost paradise that New York offered to women at Today’s Gay Girl by The Five Lesbian Brothers,
the turn of the century. $35 cl, 0-312-16249-9. —J]T ($12, 0-684-81384- X, November, Fireside.) This
award-winning theater company, whose plays have
Al:
proved that laughing well is the best revenge,
present the most refreshing, most revealing and
raunchiest reference book ever to come out of the
SIMON & SCHUSTER closet. Hilarious.
Flaming Iguanas: An Illustrated All-Girl Road Lost and Found: A Woman’s Intimate Explora-
Novel Thing by Erika Lopez. ($18.50, 0684837226.) tion of Her Journey from Girlhood to Adolescence
Tomato Rodriguez, a twenty-something Latina witha by Roberta Israeloff. ($12, 0-684-83344-1, October,
post-office fetish, hits the road to find herself — in a Touchstone.) Revisiting her past through old journals
story about an irrepressible young woman going her and diaries, Israeloff traces her passage from self-
own way. confident tomboy to a teenager trying to understand
For Colored Girls Who Have Considered what it means to be female in today’s society. .
Suicide/When the Rainbow Is Enuf by Ntozake The Best American Erotica 1997 edited by Susié
Shange. ($8, 0-684-84326-9, Scribner.) Reissue of an Bright. ($12, 0-684-81823-X, October, Touchstone)
all-time favorite.
The new collection of Susie’s favorite and most titi:
= rope is Se The Breast Cancer Treat- lating pieces of erotic literature. Fe
ent Survival Handbook by Margit Porter. ($11, Getting Away with Murder: Weapons for t 4
0 g P- ro6 ei8 sn4 eg- 8 t4 st2 h1 r8 po- r1 u a. g c. h t) catW lrr ,ei at t ct ome en n t by f ora n bd r eaf so tr cw ao nm c en o i n are W Ba arr b aA rg aa in Vis ct t orD .o m (e $s 12t ,i c 0 -V 6i 8o 4-l 8e 3n 3c 3e 3 -b 6y , R Oa co tu ol b erF ,el de er s+ ;
n i
women confront th ee stone.) A chilling examination of the Soa fhe
brutal crimes against women in America, Bios
Psychological, of thei
specific, practical, essential solutions these @
have for bringing it to an end.
NOW IN PAPER:
Same River Twice: Honorin
Alice Walker. ($14, 0671003771
Mom’s House. D - Very hetero, recounts how fame, illness, betray ex 0
Guide for Parents W’ ho ne4 aes Complete | Prize have impacted, her lif7 e, her wor an r ev'
or Living Apart by Isolina Bice eee Divorced lution as an artist. She talks a great cee ‘positiv®
September/October 1997 0-684-83078-7 controversy she provoked with her
Volume 20.N
120Feminist Bookstore News
aT
.celelis:.
i fi BIRT
Color Purple of love between women, and tertiary characters.
believe to be her negative portrayal pages neice there is = ae ee oo See
en. ity, wading through a fair amount of cee Rae
of oF Git Next Door: Into the Heart of Lesbian stuff in the process. Finally a bit of same sex action on
5 Lindsy Van Gelder and Pamela Brandt. page 148! Yeah! But wait. To top it off, the relationship
-83957-1, October, Touchstone.) Percep- is over by page 152. And Matthew gets the girl. Oh
look at how lesbian women think, feel, you do get a glimpse of the secondary and tertiary
highlights the diversity and the rich- characters’ lives, but not very much.) Don’t be too
ness of the lesbian community. _ —Dorothy Holland glum, though, there are angels who tell us that gay
The Love of Friends: An Anthology of Gay and people are conduits facilitating pairing among
Lesbian Letters to Lovers and Friends edited by Con- heterosexuals. I guess I should be happy for any
stance Jones collects correspondence that offers the lesbian content, and the conduit thing is an original
reader a glimpse into the world of gay and lesbian treat. Am I too critical? Should I just be happy thata
letters. Comprised of missives from literary, artistic cl le , sb 0i -a 6n 8 4w -r 8i 3t 2e 0r 5 -i 4s . being published by the big guys? I$ T22
and political luminaries — many well-known in the
gay community— this book constitutes the first Al
definitive anthology of its kind and presents an
intriguing series of historical snapshots. Letters from ii
Mercedes De Acosta, Alexander the Great, Djuna
Barnes, Lord Byron, Isadora Duncan, Amelia Earhart, VERSO
Virginia Woolf, Oscar Wilde, and others are compiled Red Dirt: Growing Up Okie by Roxanne Dunbar-
here. $25 cl, 0-684-81409-9. Ortiz tells of her impoverished childhood in rural
Set 26 years into the new millennium, The Oklahoma. Born during the height of the Dust Bowl,
Misconceiver by Lucy Ferriss, is the story of Phoebe, a the author as a child was nurtured on the Biblical
young woman caught in the social and political cross- arables told to her by her mother and the stories of
i | f ti hre e veof i n a w ofo r Tl hd e Ht aha nt d mh aa is d 'r s en To alu en , c Te hd e a Mb io srt ci oo nn c eiri vg eht rs . is In a p wo al si tic da rl i vi ed ne al oi us tm ofo f Oh ker l ahgr oa mn ad fat bh ye r, t he a KW Ko Kb .b ly $ 25w ho cl ,
—JT
aan look at a world that is disturbingly close to 1-85984-856-7.
reality. $23 cl, 0-684-80092-6.
| _ InWho’s Afraid of Feminism? Seeing Through VIKING
D HlB e et d xh i se s ti anB ea n,c : ek l :a c as rh s i 0)n ie c nid tii c et is re le nld ai tga inb oy , alC An an grca ros oa l uy pnO ak oHl e i fH le ec b mb r ir u nu inr , td a tp n hi idJ ne u kl i -e at a ey cro eu tI n n g C ao sK tm o f ro e —r a nt shAW em o em wra ai sn c aa mn sb oy sl g d ”i rN lo , i r on fa u t o n WcO o Wpk v rj e oa r s s t IIK i e tl fh u ol e t re r ir , o hm n eo rB t e ihc n bec r ia th dh, e' S
n f s s p
c p
|| ckP Na or in ao ncd ot c h neo esu et ng ssh th ,e —t c“a $ ,1 aS 5 .e o : Jt uh ‘ se es s i gd ’s ei 1 lv - e 5 hr 6 teas 5 bve 8 dt ee 4h a - ogt t3 dt a s8e if 5r f h -r e ca aci 1 iv pit it te eo ; dr t$ i a h3 ne ero 0 us iv ese ac der il dn :t , h ewna r - ’t e d 3 tc 8u h4 e r en-nf i to3t he n . lm g eyi se tn a boi tr iohs s aba nt t, nt J s d a aia hna ns ep d du t a se g n dr h l v’e ett o ys os ee v re sir d n ioo g an“ w i el sctr er y v’ ee s y c t. wtr “ o ae hA ol na gT hd d.t eo b i l me o d htC ha n etu o ht em ,i sin f f rao lu Nt or il ah t de nf rgtiv W sr oo s roi t Wc wm ne in ijas to v hn e o al f K, eps liab ip snro l e evet o ta boh nv k lti s n km eeg as .o w sl t y pa ah nl se sL tl r C, oe u W fa yd n
“ n w ic a e o %n mt r a h ei s f dy o o w ea en o f o r e e y o or ri t h i ii s m a g Oi y e tt hh a t ov a o e
to l .C e A n W i n s n re v l y tt r i e p e t t e rr tg r e a i e e p o me y
f . t0 ' a yg e t o x s p e o i tC l to f M , a d , e i n d o e u s e ov r a . k a h l r o h s e o
e e
—__~ ™norand almost totally among secondary her ancestors September/ October 1997
‘olume 29 N. 5Feminist Bookstore News SS
Woman is not simply a story, but medicine for the WorldA ’ s Ki Gn rd e ateof s t Gr Fa ec me: a leT he A thA leu tt eo bi bo y gr Ja acp kh iy e Jo of y n th e
spirit.” —Sandra Cisneros (The House on Mango S treet). Kersee. ($23, 0-446-52248-1, October.) This Test er-
$71.95 cl, 0-670-87269-5. a. Olympic gold medallist tells her inspiring stor i
Monkey Bridge by Lan Cao is a Vietnamese girl’s
coming-of-age story in the U.S. in the aftermath of the triumph not only in sports, but over poverty, oni
Vietnam War. It is a story of divided loyalties spun tragedy, and illness. Includes photos. y
thorough generations, how love and politics can be 0-446T -h 5e 2 071F -o 3r ,t u On ce t obC era .t )c he Nr o veb ly thS au ts a on ffn ee r s P a ar pi e. ne( t$ r2 a2
both opposed and inseparable, and how the slender
bridge between past and future must be reinvented by ing look behind the curtain of secrecy that shrouds
every generation. Past and present, east and west, modern Iran, explores the dreams of the women there
Vietnamese myth and American-style reality and tells the dramatic story of an American Iranian
intertwine and ultimately, the legacy of long-simmer- woman whose once perfect life and love fall victim to
ing hatreds and what occurred late one afternoon ina the battle between the old and new ways.
burial ground near the banks of the Mekong River is Any Given Day: The Life & Times of Jessie Lee
revealed. Carol at FBN loved this one. $23.95 cl, Brown Foveaux, a Memoir of 20th Century America
0-670-87367-5. by Jessie Lee Brown Foveaux. ($19.95, 0-446-52343-7,)
Chronicling the further adventures of sexy, wise- A remarkably resilient woman, now 98. Foveaux
cracking dame Robin Hudson, Sparkle Hayter returns started writing stories about her life when she was 80.
with Revenge of the Cootie Girls. Robin’s wacky Here she describes seeing horse-drawn carriages giv-
investigations are unique, and marked by “wicked ing way to automobiles, working through WW I and
humor, endless spontaneity, crazy plot, non-stop WW IL, and raising eight children single-handedly.
gab-fest, vivid action, and her unruly hair.” —Library
Journal. When Robin's intern Kathy fails to show up
for Girl’s Night Out our heroine sets out with her
eclectic group of friends to locate her. “A great read, a
love story to living in the city, and an inspiration for i
anyone who wants to unravel not only a suspense plot FRANKLIN WATTS
but contemporary life. “ —Regina Barreca (They Used
Although Franklin Watts has an impressive back-
to Call Me Snow White...But I Drifted). ($20.95 cl, 0-670-
list of biographies for children, the only ones I saw
86940-6.) Also check out Nice Girls Finish Last,
new for this season were:
Rie a Hudson Mystery, (5.95 pb, 0-14-
Extraordinary Women of Medicine Darlene
7 enguin). —JT Stille. ($15.95, 0516261452.) Several dozen bios of
women throughout history who have achieved suc
cess in medicine, both as researchers and as doctors:
This whole series seems to be for ages 11 and up.
|
Letters to Our Children: Lesbian and Gay
p ee it na gee K rn o w dai ecln i g dee s A ef ttb o e y r g o y bR e ao a cs r ksa l ty o on f s chw oo oM r loc l k M i ai n nl g dl a jjo oi iin n n. a t hea ( 9$ -6 t. o5 -0 5, : A iB le nd r t giu t m el r ant ses , pr i. cp tS e urp (e e$a s 9 e.k , o9 f5 b, ut to t 0 t 5 e wh 3 s ie s1 da- ey1N s5e 8 dw 4 ia3 s - e8 rwG s, ee il tn l ye O r c asa ot fot b mi le io er sn s. s ) i v aeL na sN /r o r t py r ae yr sD e ea a lnln il e fy e2
r h e v b i g
The New Civil War: The Lesbian and 64
Cloud Mountain b y Aii mee E. Liei .
ee Setin California in 1906 — the year : ¥ Struggle for Civil Rights by Diane Silver presents
S = f= o r e — bi a P dr o de bs es s nte an a ct pl as e eS s sa s n s it h oe n F .r tea a hepn n Vy ic d eci rm s yuac s so t C t w o h er i lE y ln o a e vr ss eot f rreh ic q iotu tmh ia e a e k n ne l, o av pneC d il o b ntu e hd et a w i te M reo en mu o en gna- n i t b i s cr ln oio ,e g ct sh ih - t e 1s t 1f ys 2u i i 9d nn 0oe d -ns a x a .mc to el hf e i n sat t rh , a ie l s c s a uo enr q .cg uiu es $m se 9te .i 9n l o 5t a n n s pg f buo ,r a c g o 0el n -e . f 5s r 3b o 1i S n -a i t 1n l i 5v —e n 8 Lra 2g i n 2 nd -a d Al 5 as ;mg o a y $ B© a % 2 r?a 2 i 7e 4 s (0 )
September/October 1997 Charis Books & More/Atlan'a
aber
122
Volume 20 NBookstore News
Feminist
wce q cp Ba a alu ae e u rse pe dh pas sal e ee ne si l t oe le i af S “u w mIl ly i ob a me ts rs r ti h ee at e h® l ” r ea xg W‘ d ei )qp he Nan r f c .i ue i ou al t“ is s le L t ”i k est kd i o O ro i ,r n n l yety e i sd (t o e p ssf W h jat “er te ah ,”o r M e m zo v m i t a y rf zuo r oE tm si eb itnp ce mio uh r 1sg a ea tca 1e ial na s ig 1 s n ai dn r 8 tne is .e ddm fh rn u rm eo ro e ” n i cg r4 s )v a ai ln x9 ,ciw aw. nv ey t r se dvo ie sa s io r “vr nl i bi Ls eid g c ac oaa z r aZ e btln e lys ri l d o Y) a‘ yf i n m dt s rv“ ie b ar iv iw o d! ao p ts a im)e gc do ii Go .a ba oie ool m o t rv t nwn s yi s gr a e: e . ”o oy elPs n a: u oro ,a f r ui n ( n T cm sa J hd ew aT !s e Se o sohh r w i t cie fi i ro ut i oli l s h da Ilr e ay he nl yks - a t l h Cr h t y r s b t me Vr ea e Choh eo h re siaa l eer Dmo e tlod iue d md n le ” uca pi n e ad !s ptt a gp g me ” ee wa ri Mt t e r, V.)o bano d oi lda o i sd,n d e ! h lvia p g r b ll eA tl ii eau o vs a dri“ c mh f t eDl ka o k fN ' aa ur n n p ,sM o lIzar d l a bta I to r n al a' eh iom gl u l t m e yli i n lo ot o J f ’a wsn ngin S tui l’ at c “ ey lh r t a Pa t sls ei y n ii r va h : Hn ai s sg e ee s tl tt e h pg t pr cSv ul it h el a“ iya h fo oo o V ar rSi f dl p ac n n i tu f,ig oea l l g eLs h im h rl s lln” ct fee ot t s P ae tece r asn h r ner ti b it gohs l gi sot us Vsi se ,” f“ e rde f an l, i tb uMr g a ol or cAeo cea a ula c av cx om m t ntn sJ e at ie ko e d i d tlu i krd ( dr o”e o“d iye ut p i nIb n hy e ta l lv ng’ ci sr , hp aans f evs g,ea a , o c e /e ra t sr e yna iw e 1, “l . s ts ld V o ”fr s A oGu w i a ao on f ho va hc n raud r i eh l r hh eicnn gie ie ee rss d oe .d hcr r ayi eurv l la rfn uo so s yn Tg ui sv A m ss hc tl e e Hf y I ie h d Ar ras s. ei r i el b n as r b t1 c a eow c sao i c9 a a n 1n i toI a s ot 9 t mnt hd 9g in t om h y e, - , 9s ng l-: r : . -
i r o i p n i in i d 7
u h t e r b l g
out of the Villa’s basement window. Released by a
SO m a wo Bf u a ot u u s lr rt tt i gb ko hh c aa iS e m e r e n na n ip d gon tS afh i p na ca r tE s- in ha s im s i e ad np s o n ci mh u d eJr a nu/ e dddE ,J ei 1Gen ”e 9n eos w 8g- re s H u m mt ph ib ai gsil ts nn orp e ooa f1 unt u9h mpiS n9e uTsca c6 u s r or iMb vke ca re o ex i ifn ed ri s ad c li he n. ot ,is sr t. e s d hr iS er IOnu wt tab g n y hat n pe ll oi ee ii t , naea kl nx on s,e fp h d El a o nt v bEa hr es e“ nen e e gdS ts m l o m bibn eo esg lt t es ehh hs et nn,e e b d S f s d o wnir m nr o hava ta ioi oa ol c nn ms , k g d i- t dl n hpn iEi w e’lk di ie e u nl tw s r ’he oS ts e ol an fse tw m e wha po v e rt ale i iMm ne rr e ty dra a r el - ln t eK , i h- i s m taor n . e hf vun e. u em en w,y S rE h , so ex a s oe ttpl mR c ga el o eub r oe e b fscl i by t, o fe r i um tn ac n he iF ci , ia t d s e’ l s s l o p os ky tt, o e?of hak xu u e tl K e rr l [a n Id i , a ea ho nl c B, af w di o a io co r ra l ,ii br n o an dd u cd m g Ss li i m, ie rA p al m- z si s lbr a o e l o l l mc ec i i ae eu yp rk a s -p ,- e
6 t w
E cuu lr to urp ee sa . n Fom lu ls oic w ina gn d tht eh e trJ ae dw ii ts ih o n an ind wI hs il ca hm ic p rm iu ms ai rc ia ll y w rh ea ct o ma mf era ni dd o if t tt oh is m yg en tr ie m, i d li sk ie s tet rh si !s ] c Vo il ll le ac t Vi io ln l aa k ul lot a a 8n . d
women performed Sephardic music and, in the Dias-
pora, passed the songs onto their daughters, all of the
vocals are by Lebanese singer Fadia El-Hage, Turkish
singer/ instrumentalist Mustafa Dogan Dikmen, and
English singer /instrumentalist Belinda Sykes. Highly Music Announcements
recommended! Deutche Harmonia Mundi 77372. In the world in which we deal that’s not necessar-
Lady Drummer/Fatu (Judy Henderson). This ily about women’s or feminist music, we finally have
Most excellent musician first became interested in tra- the perfect product. The San Francisco Gay Men’s
ae drumming as a child, listening to Chorus’ ExtrABBAganza! mixes two important loves
ae ne practice in an Omaha park on Saturdays. of gay men’s culture, choral music and the band
7, ee a girl, however, she was told she was ABBA, into one experience. Ah! We only long now to
© play the drums, and had to secretly know whether the rumor of an Anonymous 4 (four
tere the thythms she heard. It wasn’t until 1990
women who perform ancient, often sacred music a
es ee instructor who was willing to formally cappella) dance remix could be true....
i mt ui son ia cl ld r du mming! Now she is the eele ad Coming in September 1997: Front Porch Music
drummer and a i
ee irector of the Harambee Afri- pings Tillery on Music for Little People.
Col ers an, Drummers at the University of 0 coming late this summer is the re-re
Meooc sOr ia cd ao li n GB iou tl ed se r, c naan d ichdaas inr eleased her er fi rst album CD of two early Alix Dobkin recordings, pee
Agia Dias and tra itional music from the Jane Loves Women” and “Living With Lesbians.” The
= pora. Playing the djembe and djun djuns,
SoS CD’s title: Living With Lavendar Jane, of course. O
123
Volume 20 Number 3Feminist Bookstore News =
Index of Advertisers
Mother Tongue Ink..................00,0..
A&M Books: pig sige ea ie Najiad Presse reieptern te a. f asciise a es
Alyson Publications ........+++++++eereerees 7 NSO erricnertan tak aciran ot ae B
sept ae sae oS SA New Victoria .. 00. .2 0st sees eee esse ees, 78
BS oOAkLEeLAhaT R SCPEs ANTei aA RmEtb Ag oEtNs A New York UnivenrsiPtreyes s ...e......o.s. . ...a.i.e. :4
BOOkpeople scat teeta ean cen eas tee 94 Siateshaatly ea nag Press Hie,e e
Corie Pren, Sele eA alt deal 68 Papier Mache Press... esses 1
Repo Tatoo 10, 66 Mee SSUES I. capers aie sinensis vo
City Lights Publishers ...............+.-e0++ 91 Pluto Press .... SO GDA Coie Ores 22
Cornell University:Press so is «15 sie exes seco = 102 Press Gang Publishers .................., 62-63
Down ‘There Pressisccsceis. a.w oieiue ca tse eueies saminiv ie 74 Randomiblouse casosr oe feo be oe s se 108, 114
Earth Beat Records irsds ai aca aman eeec sepsis 46 Running: Pressicste i= seot cee isece eose e«Sswa t 53
Bcodkopique Inc. 4 tarts etiam steals a 123s 20 Rutgers University: Press’. cre.6...6..ewc 0athec-ca.sn s 28
hirébrand Books tries .is sca eee eee 60 StalVlartin’s Press serch ayes p- ojo. sdore ola elssareduarte 104
Goldenrod Distribution............0........ 48 ocholarly, Resourcesrs -.-500 bis ..hs tess enrich 116
Indiana University Press...............0.000. 8 SpInitexibress 3s ebive. i aacges se dactekonee 68
IsnURresserc ns. ore Pe ee ee C2 Spinsters Inet si ts,.o wets. sos) esceeae C3
Iris Edittoris$22 2 ats Se sis etL S 38 ScHbner ef. S78. Saekoak ole.e a r ee 106
SNODE sete Ne ete ee eee ne oe ie 110 Teen Voices... saa. sereee ee 30
Koen Book Distributors.....................
16 Temple University Press................... 100
LPC Group /inBook’.... ccare 84 University of California Press............... 50
Ladyshpper.. sirens mare age tea 49 University of Chicago'Press:.'ee acre 98
POETS tons eee eee ed . Sn ckn dame. aay 70 University of Illinois Press.................. 36
Madwoman Pressi. wikia saboh oc Sais ances; 64 Women’s Press-Canada....................
1
ALUN, oR as Seen OP. See RG ere 112 Women’s Project a... ca. euaiceree nen e 4
CLASSIFIED
ADS
$se$pwC 6 2i ai ae ,n 8st m l y 7h pe a lb a n Svr etf d Ea oa u int l,e w 1d w a 4i i ib tt s ti l hph hnW e ,l s o ap ycm Pi i w,on ora h l rin o on ts nr l! ig lofx e a u s nld b am dH e e l isa a g ei nun Oe g td Rimn i- s ms cfc t. au u 9r t ol 7m aa n 2l Bf e 0oe gt 2s gs l ;e o . at r d zs d $ee 5e8 Cl 0. rl e 3p ci l -o o Wn e 2r flg o b 3oc o r 9n rre -as dl “ , 7ta e CS 0ei ri O 1 n w fs 5D h ut .Wso l ej o lr e eh rw gsoe ni Faol f r ld tr ese”y e f Bfww a r oe ui l o re rt m .o lh o d ic n Ye a nd o tn gs uh a t ,a l o oz c nd ge ai a nl sn Vn pd s Tlu o h at r ed y d e 0a te 5r :rf 4 p k o 0r r 1a d Km i -l e$ rii 5e7n mn 3c.te p 7t5 , , 4 0 , ch co Ki ad r l rp a l. a r fok t1rE, s-da , e 8 c r 0h 0d 2 -a 81 8r w 84 6k r 4 2 a - Fp a 5 lw p n 8 yi d 1e nt 4d nh , t hei Aon r vr o r efa a no ws i c u ult kn i. ee ll ,d eQ :
Free Booksearch. Send us your out-of-print bape
needs. We will search for you. You can send theme
email at (rtkemp@aol.com)
or by mail: Kemp Kraft
288 Flynn Avenue, Burlington VT 05401-5374.
Volume 20 Number 3
124 <1
September / OctoberSe
Be. Politics
LO« VPOLEITI CS Love &
[Lesbian Origins Lesbian Origins
Carol Anne Douglas
RADICAL FEMINIST
& LESBIAN THEORIES
| Susan Cavin on
Critically surveys radical and
“so“ cC ia ov li on g, a al de vs ab ni can fe min ni es wt ole ps eb di an rof me mi tn hi es t 196i 0de sa s thd re ov ue gl h-
| i st, e s a f
eory of women's Sumer the 1980s. Douglas examines
d women’s liberation, base diverse theories on the roots
iic ketnr ioo ens s.s e- rc Wiu enl myet eu nr 'a nmaal ad ta wnmt eta r. hS eh me “C wa wr no ol gA en rn e dsD o bu lpg rll oa vs ne_ n| tpo lf m bta al nse yd o sm ni in a tdt .i o n ee, nl to oev e ta tin hcnd
B é | f B rso oi eu at iu nm gb e r we gwr ni og m ii n sta anl el r- ge ms rch pe; e ou da m en e .r n te ds o o - c sw c ei ut lh p i ete shf d e m ea inl a te os wm oa sg mr or g ce ii na ent tal ysy ws vfoe io rx mu a e l ooi u:t fmy ; n l ’ e is s cl ae i s a b n i i ab a drs i ae es sim a o r n saa ia i — ln id vm ea, fn ed f iar t ni mr de oa n rt ee cs gh iyi p ara sen d b et t raw c ve ee -s
| p o s ti h d m e n o v e vr r w e ' , D l a i d l o h o r
| " b c t h o e e a e m s d v e
| | the Ja mn oi sc te R sta iy mm uo lan td i ngc al al ne dd L ore is gb ii na an l O wr oi rg ki sn s to“ on ce o meof apa ns dt df ie vw e rsd ite yc ,a ”d e ws r, otr e em Ci hn ad ri ln og t te us Buof n chth .e ir creativity
“out of the last five years of feminist thought" Carol Anne Douglas has written for off our
| 263 pae gn' es s .R .e .v .i .e .w I SBo Nf B 0o -o 9ks 1) 0 383-15-4 ...... $12 | b 3a 6c 3k s pas gi en sce . ..1 .9 .7 .3 I SBa Nn d 0-te 9a 1c 0h 3e 8s 3 -w 1o 7m -0e n’s . ..s .t .u .di es $. 1 2
| Say
| Esta puente, [=== ee Take Back
mi espalda ap ars Saas Your Power
The S ees Jennifer Coburn
; Severe sexual harassment by
}| : her supervisor in her first job
| sce ms emt oral RO after college drove Jennifer
ins personal Coburn to fight back and win a legal settlement.
ays, and poems by radical women She then interviewed a hundred other women
e US. — including Barbara Smith, to gather their stories of sexual harassment on a
Idda, Chrystos, Nellie Wong, Aurora variety of jobs. She presents and analyzes her
s, and many more. own experiences and those of the women she
ng book,” wrote the Mexican interviewed, emphasizing the psychological and
thly fem. “Through reading it, we practical dimensions of the struggle.
feminist women can identify the “Take Back Your Power is a comprehensive and
ng Our societies as well, which—try empowering guide to addressing sexual harass-
{0 conceal it—does affect our personal ment at the work place.” —Patricia Ireland, presi-
relationships.”
dent, National Organization for Women.
141 pages......ISBN 0-910383-13-8 ....._. $10
Box 12447- F San Francisco, CA 94112. Distributed by Bookpeople.Women Writing a Feminist Future!
A Gift of the Emperor
GIFT Therese Park Spinses
Ink
ISBN: 1-883523-18-4 $10.95 (Pub. date: September 1997)
me BEROR The gut-wrenching fictionalized account of real-life
atrocities inflicted upon approximately 200,000 Asian women during
World War II. This debut novel by Therese Park was inspired by
recent revelations in the international media that have rocked Japanese
society and reverberated throughout the world.
This searing account of one Korean “comfort woman's” endurance of
the callous brutality with which human beings can treat one another
during wartime is compelling testimony to the strength of the human
spirit, the power of love over hate, and the ultimate triumph of hope
over despair.
Therese Park
“..at long last, with [Therese Park's] help, the truth about her former
countrywomen has started to surface, and the world is listening.”
— Kansas City Star
Living at Night
Mariana Romo-Carmona
ISBN 1-883523-22-2 $10.95 (Pub. date: October 1997)
Erica Garcia, a young, working-class, Puerto Rican-American lesbian, LIVING AT NIGHT
searches for a niche in the world, despite the pressures of satisfying
the expectations of family, lovers, and friends. Unresolved anguish
over her mother's illness causes Erica to drop out of college and
work as a nurse's aide at an institution for the developmentally disabled.
This is a story of hope and redemption—of how one woman's empathy
and compassion can make a small but essential difference in the lives
of those whom society would rather forget, and how those removed
from the cares of the world can teach a young woman about life and
the value of human connections.
“ oL wi av ri dn sg sat lN fi -dg ih st ot vu er rn ys o cn nt nh ee ctli eg dh nt es sso ,n t lh oe ej o fu or rn e ay to hf th we uh nea dr et
——M. —RO —MO —-CA ERM EONA E
t e c , o v ll e o d parts
of ourselves and others. A healing read!”” — Julia Alvarez, ; Yo!
Distributed to the Trade by InBook/LPC (800) 243-0138 peice.