This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:16 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsAn Exciting New Voice in Feminist Literature
FRAGMENTS I SAVED
FROM THE FIRE
Stories by Mary Anne Ashley
Stories that illuminate the lives of the women and men who exist on the fringes:
free-thinkers, activists, survivors—too often unrecorded—too frequently forgotten.
From Salinas to Sacramento to Sonoma, Ashley offers a view of California not
available to the casual observer.
"This is a great book written not in
Patriarch prose, but in the rhythm, love,
and beauty of the Matriarchy."
Meridel Le Sueur—
"Lucid evocations of human emotion
and event, both compassionate and wise,
peopled by a gang of vivid characters
always on the edge of an explosion.
Ashley, with her distinctive prose, holds
a match to the fuse."
Don Meredith—
Author of Morning Line
"There is not a trace of formula in her
writing. It is her voice one hears and you
know what it meant to be alive—in
FR AFGMREONTMS I STAVHEDE an oFthIeRr E ti m eB aennd a noMtheorr prlaecea."le—
Author of Down and Out in Academia
0-918949-06-8 $9.00 Paperback
Available from Inland, Bookpeople, Moving Books, and Baker & Taylor
or Papier-Mache Press - 795 Via Manzana - Watsonville CA 95076 (408) 726-2933
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:16 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
NOTES FROM
THE
oOo0o0000
This must be The Year of Feminist Presses! This smaller communites by paying more (and often much
issue's Our Own Presses column lists books from more) than the basic subscription price. It’s a commit-
nearly forty feminist publishers — and even that ment that has flourished for 13 years.
doesn't cover all of the new books. All of our larger For the next issue I'm working on an article on
publishers have good, solid lists, many of the Inlands WomanSource Catalog/feminist book pro-
“newcomers” from a few seasons ago — Papier motion and I'd like to hear from booksellers and pub-
Mache, Sister Vision, Gynergy — have three- or four- lishers who have used — or haven't used — the
or five-book lists, and more and more of the ”oc- program.
casional” publishers are bringing their new titles out I'm also looking for someone to do a regular
in sync with the larger world of publishing — all of sidelines column for FBN and for a good feminist
which adds up to the largest, strongest season ever for magazine designer. FBN is bursting its bindings and
feminist publishers. I don’t know if anyone is keeping it’s time to look at an 8 1/2 by 11 format. Any recom-
statistics on feminst press publishing. I tend to track mendations? Volunteers?
the size of Fall and Spring lists by the number of FBN FBN turns 13 in October. Want to get together and
pages it takes to cover the books. This Fall's 15 page celebrate?
From Our Own Presses column is half again the size YoCurs a ‘tilr thoe nlex t issSue,eajay O
of any previous column.
Mainstream publishers seem to be doing less
well by comaparison. As Sandi Torkildson says in On
P fou rb l i nsh ee wr s b oR oo kw s t fh ri os m is mn't a in a s t rt ee ar mri b l py u b e lx isc hit ei rn sg t hF oal ul g hseason FBN
there are a number of good paperback releases. Deadlines
Inspired by the various paperwork cartwheels
the U.S. Postal Service requires of Second Class Mail-
ing Permit applicants, we added up all the figures
from all the feminist bookstore subscribers that pay University Press/
their FBN subsciptions on the sliding scale and found November Issue
that the contributions from the stores that pay at the October 10
high end slightly more than balance those at the lower
end. I’ve been doing FBN finances for the 13 years on January Issue
the belief that FBN’s sliding scale for feminist book-
stores works but it was a real pleasure to confirm that December 11
belief F w BNit h h aa sc t u ba el e n f ig onu r e as . sliding scale for feminist book- Spring Announcements/
stores since FBN was instigated at the first national March Issue
Women-In-Print Conference in 1976. The larger, more Feburary 9
affluent bookstores committed to support stores in
Volume 12 Number 3 September /October 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:16 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Women’s
Books
Calendars
Cards
Tapes
And More ...
We have what you need.
Small presses & publishers only.
Fast & friendly service, too.
Call us.
September /October 1989 2 Volume 12 Number 3
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:16 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
FBN
Editor & Publisher DEPARTMENTS
Carol Seajay Advertising Index .91
Columnists Back to Press TETTIE.
Art Books Tee Corinne
C Ca hn ila dd ria en n ’s C o Bn ot oe kn st K D To n Hn oa r nM inu grray B Ce Ls lt as esel sle tir fs ti e. e d.. .. r. .. A... s d : s = .= 59 2-33
Gay Men’s Literature Jane Troxell
International Books Joni Seager
Mainstream Publishers Sandi Torkildson
M Main yst sr tea em r iP eu sb li sh Mers a r A yni ta L M oc wCle rlla yn Subscription Information 32, 75
Poetry Betsy Nuse 31
Science Fiction Susanna Sturgis TThrievyi a W . e n. t . . That-A- Way . «27
YU on uni gv e Ar ds uit lty B oP or kse s Cse hs ri s tK inr e i s J e nH ko ino sver Writing Wanted .35
Proofreading ARTICLES
Pat Kelso
News/Short Stories „17
Advertising
Brenda Cummings
Feminist Bookstore News
456 14th Street Suite 6 Against Harlequin
PO Box 882554
San Fr a 4n 1c 5i -s 6c 2o 6 - C 15A 5 6 94188 Books from Britain .21
Canadian Content .. „29
vF eE hM icIN leI S T fo rB O tO hK e S T inO fR oE r m N alE W nS e t wis o r t kh e o fc o m fem mu inn ii sc ta t i bo on os kstores. Good Bait... Big Fish .13
FBN reaches 350 feminist and feminist-inclined book-
stores in the U.S. and Canada as well as feminist book-
sellers in England, Europe, Australia, New Zealand,
India and Japan. Librarians, women's studies teachers,
book reviewers, publishers and feminist bibliophiles THE BOOKS
comprise the remainder of the subscribers.
Letters, articles, news items and announcements should Art Books .49
ab S Fuie gt Enh r Meoe drc s Ie . Ni av re t Id i Sc l Tet sh e a B nt Oden Ot leh Kt t eo Srf Ts O t ah r Re e E m t ho en N t h r Ee s Wp pr oe n Sc s e i d b (i in l Ii Sg ty S p N ou fb : l i tc 0hat e 7io 4n 1. -6555) is TO hu er SO mw an l l P Pr re es ss se es s . « 5 „Z5 1
p NS 9eu E 4pb Wtl 1i e Ss m 0h 3e b ad te . r , b 4 S 5i- a 6 em n c do 1 on 4 N ntt hh o d l vy -e S m t C ri bn e le e a r t sJ sa Sbn uyu i ta P r eF o y E , s6M , t IM N aS ga I aSr n eTc h F, B r p O aM n aOa c iKy i dS s, cT o O J , a Ru tE Cly A, San Francisco, G Pay o M ee tn r’s y Li te ra .ture . .5 41 3
C FEA M. INPO ISS TT M BA OS OT KE SR T: O P Rl Ee a s Ne E Wsen S,d Pa Od d r Be os xs 8ch 82a 5n 5g 4e ,s St ao n Publishers’ Row „81
Francisco, CA 94188-2554. Science Fiction .41
SUBSCRIPTIONS: $50/yr/6 issues, $95/2 years. Plus
$6/yr Canadian postage; $13/yr for overseas postage. University Presses .
3 September /October 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:16 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsWe can't invite you all over for
dinner...
but we can offer you your choice of any
or all of these expanded services:
e ALPHABETIZED PACKING SLIP
o ALPHABETIZED INVOICES
EXPANDED TELEPHONE ORDER
HOURS — 8:00 A.M. TO 5:00 P.M.
and, beginning September First,
Bookpeople will offer an additional
DISCOUNT
BASED ON YOUR ORDER OF 50
PAPERBACK BOOKS OR MORE:
1-4 COPIES OF A SINGLE TITLE 40%
5-9 COPIES OF A SINGLE TITLE 41%
10 COPIES OF A SINGLE TITLE 42%
For smaller orders, nothing
has changed. You will still
qualify for 40% based on a BOOKPEOPLE
minimum order of 10 as- (R>
s oirtteld e b.o o ksS EorA 5 of a single 2929 Fifth Street
title Berkeley, CA 94710
(415) 549-3030
FAX: (415) 848-6322 Toll Free Ordering & Customer Service: (800) 999-4650
September /October 1989 4 Volume 12 Number 3
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:16 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Inklings L'Androgyne
1846 Richmond Ave. 3636 Boul. St. Laurent
Houston, TX 77098 Montreal], Quebec
Friends of Inklings, Canada H2X 2V4
Many of you have asked how we're doing. After Dear Booksellers,
our first seven months in existence, we are delighted We've just gotten a MacIntosh and we’re looking
with our progress. Our sales and inventory have for an inventory program. I know I read something in
grown each month this year. Inklings’ June results FBN about a bookstore that was using a Mac-based
actually flirted with the breakeven level, just ahead of inventory program, but I looked and looked, and can’t
our optimistic schedule. And, our inventory has quin- find it anywhere. If you have such a program or have
tupled since opening day; we now have several thou- any to recommend, please call me (collect).
sand titles. (We can also special order from suppliers Thanks,
stocking over 100,000 titles.) Since all this expansion Lawrence Boyle
could tire a person out, we've added an additional 514-842-4765
person: Jennifer Juday joins Gwen Slough and
Roswitha Firth on our part-time staff.
Pokey Anderson
PO Box 623
Northampton, MA 01061
Dear Carol Seajay,
Brigit Books I used the labels 1 bought from you and sent a
3434 4th St. N. Suite 5 mailing to feminist and other bookstores and sold 190
St. Petersburg, FL 33704 copies immediately.
Dear FBN, I have been reading reading reading FBN Volume
Things are going great at the beginning of my 11 Number 5, wanting to write to tell you how much
second month of business. An article in the St. Peters- I like your magazine. I like the way you read. I like the
burg Times has brought many new customers, as has way you write. I like the way you noticed and men-
underwriting WMNF’s Women’s Show. I have 400 tioned that I ask everybody to send money with order.
square feet and about 2500 new and used books now, Thank you with all my heart!
but in September am adding another 200 square feet The orders have stopped. I have been making up
for a meeting room. The used books are doing real ads. I am trying to say everything in 6 1/4 inches by 7
well. I'm glad I decided to include them. I have room 3/8 inches. My advertising budget is $2,000 (I figured
for about 5000 books total plus tapes and the usual. $1 a copy and printed 2,000).
I'm enclosing a copy of my first newsletter. Bookpeople rejected my book because it doesn’t
Again — thanks for FBN. fit in! I am proud.
Patty Callaghan Love,
Brigit was the Celtic goddess of language. Kady
Volume 12 Number 3 September /October 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:16 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
The Women’s Press have established written guidelines to assist Writers in
229 College St. #204 making a judgment about whether we are an appro-
Toronto, Ontario priate publishing house for their work, and to assist us
Canada M5T 1R4 in assessing manuscript submissions.
Dear FBN, In part, these guidelines state, “We want to pub-
Nett Hart's column (Censorship & Silence, Vol. 12 lish analytic feminist writing which incorporates
#2) was very interesting. It certainly helps to open up race, gender and class into its analysis. We will
the doors for important and necessary discussion. publish fiction and non-fiction work by Native
When the issue of racism at Women’s Press hit the women, Black women, Asian women, Latina
media several months ago the issue was quickly re- women and other Women of Colour on issues deter-
defined by various individuals and groups outside the mined by their concerns. We want to publish ma-
Press as one of censorship. Women’s Press looked at terial which contributes to an understanding of how
how racism is as much a part of writing and publish- anti-racist work can be done and how racism func-
ing as it is part of our society, and established an tions within Canada and the feminist movement.”
editorial policy that would help to prevent us as pub- Furthermore, “We will not publish work that con-
lishers from contributing to racism through the writ- tains the imagery that perpetuates the hierarchy
ten and publishing form. black=bad, white=good. We will not publish work
that stereotypes a particular group of people.”
ARI As an anti-racist publisher with a commitment
to cultural self-determination we will not publish
work in which writers attempt to “speak from the
Women’s Press has been an integral part of the mouths” of those who they are not. Such a perspec-
development of Canadian feminism since 1972. Like tive includes assumptions that consciously or un-
many Canadian feminist organizations, Women’s consciously views Women of Colour as passive
Press has been defined and run by white, middle-class victims of their histories and cultures, and in-
women. As a publishing house that has always been capable of making correct judgments of their own
political, we have since our beginning applied our situations or of taking an active or politically
understanding of gender and class when evaluating sophisticated role in their own causes. This is not a
manuscripts. During the past two years Women’s complete injunction against publishing imagined
Press has become more and more committed to characters who are different from the author but it is
making Women’s Press a racially integrative publish- a statement about our refusal to facilitate a white
ing house in all aspects of its work and to publishing writer writing on behalf of people whose oppression
a wider range of women so that we may reflect the benefits the writer. In practical terms this means that
diversity of all women’s experience. We are now a white fiction writer writing for Women’s Press will
focusing on our responsibility to ensure that our fem- pretty much have to have a white protagonist be-
inism is also anti-racist and that we incorporate an cause she will have to present a subjective perspec-
understanding of race with gender and class in assess- tive of that woman’s experience.
ing manuscripts.
Anti-racism analysis has moved us to facilitate RI
Women of Colour publishing work they themselves
have written since racism has prevented the majority
of Women of Colour from being published. We are also This also means we are looking for manuscripts
aware that white women who write about Women of in which women write the mythologies of their own
Colour are more readily published than Women of cultures and not ones written by an outsider, how-
Colour who write about themselves and their own ever sympathetic. However, we do not assume that
communities. At Women’s Press we want to con- Women of Colour need necessarily have a Woman
tribute to a changing balance of power in the publish- of Colour protagonist if she is to be published by
ing world. And we want to be upfront about it. So, we Women’s Press.
September /October 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:16 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
We continue to welcome the work of white but none of them even write to ask for time and I too
women in Canada, particularly work that challenges have to pay The Man. Is it just us or are other period-
the popular literary representation of Canada and the icals having trouble with the bookstores? The selec-
world as white and middle-class. tion of women’s stuff is getting smaller at most stores
Sincerely, I'm hitting. Erotica and spirituality seem hot but the
Michele Paulse more offbeat stuff is vanishing. I haven’t seen stuff like
for Women’s Press Broomstick or Spare Rib in NYC since Womanbooks
RI closed. And the weird pile of women’s papers from all
over the country has dwindled to a few “nationals.”
I'm glad Soj and OOB are still there but I wish they had
more company dammit! At this point I would even be
Fighting Woman News glad to see The Dartmouth Review Ladies Auxiliary just
Box 1459 Grand Central Stn. to know that there was something besides sex (pc/ pi)
New York, NY 10163 drugs (recovery from) and rock & roll (New Age) out
Dear Carol (and Staff) (and computer), there. Rant, rant, rant.
Enclosed is another big 15 bucks as I will need Later...
FBN to ease the transition from feminist media non- Wel], I'm feeling a bit more energized. Took a hop
entity to academic nonentity. I am definitely going to to Judith’s Room with a friend last Saturday and
let go of FWN at the end of the year (assuming as usual found a lot of good things.... But I am getting more
that it’s still around to be let go of; after 14 years and uneasy as I get older. Where are the radical rags deal-
40 issues that were probably the last, one tends to ing with anything other than s&m? (Something I as-
ignore the fact that it’s still true!). My big problem now sociate with the 19th century!) When academics began
is how to price the magazine since if one announces to do dreadful things to science fiction 20 or so years
something for sale one has to put a price on it. What ago, someone (a woman natch) said (screamed, raved)
am I bid for a mailing list like no other, some inventory “Let's put science fiction back in the gutter where it
of back issues that women still buy, a shitload of work belongs!” I can't help but add, “Let's put feminism
(welcome to the joys of 2nd class mailing!), and 14 back on the lunatic fringe where it belongs!”
years of my life? I'll throw in my Pocket Pal and some
other pre-Pagemaker how-to books. And one genuine ZRI
hands-on tutorial with t-square and Haberule. (Yes,
this is an official announcement that the world’s only
magazine for the adult literate female martial artist is Anyway, nice to see FBN looking so fat and sassy.
for sale.) (Whoever does your heads has a fun sense of
I'm glad you ran that blurb about A Woman’s art/humor. The Publishers Row one — I live there so
Place finally folding. I had assumed that something I know — actually feels New Yorky in a nice way.
was NG when they stopped paying after all those Gives me urges to lunch at the Plaza or something —
years but they never even sent a we're in trouble card even though many of the publishers have moved
and after 6 issues I finally cut them off. Will never downtown or outtatown...)
make the mistake of letting things go that long again. Hang in, carry on, looking forward to the next
I've started sending notices when two invoices are issues (yVoursa anlde mrine)i.e Eads O
overdue and cutting off after three. At first I felt rotten,
September /October 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:16 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
These stereo recordings of the meditations in Margo Adair's popular
book are great for healing and becoming more effective both person-
ally and politically. Can be used for empowerment time and time
again.
s o
A series of 20 cassettes including:
Reclaiming Your Power (for women) , Liberate Yourself
” Patience, Endurance, Courage From Trauma to Wisdom
„ Embracing Cultural Diversity s Caring Acts Heal the Planet
* Healing the Organization " Towards a Balanced World
,„ Cultivating Your Best (for women) „„ Sexuality
"` Exploring Your Life "` Enjoyment
“Adair offers her commitment and her guidance
with care and peace-full purpose.” Holly Near
Newly released pamphlet addressing why, despite our best inten-
tions, we duplicate society's patterns of domination and submission.
Focussing on issues of race and class, this pamphlet explores strate-
gies that foster relations in which everyone contributes. ($3.50)
The Subjective Side
of
Politics
By Margo Adair & Sharon Howell
“A valuable contribution to the work of building
alliances across differences.” Starhawk
September /October 1989 8 Volume 12 Number 3
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:16 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
IV Feria Internacional IV Fira Internacional
del Libro Feminista del Llibre Feminista
Del 19 al 23 de junio de 1990. Barcelona Del 19 al 23 de juny de 1990. Barcelona
As previously announced, the upcoming Fourth Projected Activities
International Feminist Bookfair will be held in Bar- For the first two days of the Fair, the exhibition
celona, at the “Drassanes Reials,” a restored 14th Cen- areas will be reserved for publishing professionals
tury shipyard in the heart of the old city and and for press visits. During the following three days
convenient to the waterfront. Barcelona is a city with the Fair will be open for the exhibition and sale of
a long tradition of publishing and book fairs, and thus books to the general public.
possesses an infrastructure that can easily accommo-
date an event of this sort; the International Bookshow
Liber’90 will open its doors on June 26th, three days
after the closing of the Feminist Bookfair. The Medi-
terranean climate is pleasant in June (temperatures
average a maximum 77 ‘F and a minimum of 61 F).
International Feminist Bookfairs, which have be-
come a veritable tradition after the experiences of
London (1984), Oslo (1986) and Montreal (1988), are
ambitious cultural events meant to provide a show- In the afternoons of the first two days there will be
case for the work women are doing throughout the a series of professional workshops to analyze the
world in the area of written culture — literature, re- situation of publishing and the promotion of feminist
flective prose, and research — facilitating at the same books in the various countries; among other topics,
time contacts and exchanges among publishers, book- we propose a round-table discussion relating to the
new situation which European publishers will be
facing in 1993.
In previous Fairs, these workshops have proven
to be extremely useful in the development of co-
publishing projects, the buying and selling of rights,
the design of strategies for promotion and selling, and
e in opening up new professional channels, while at the
same time providing a unique opportunity for per-
sonal and professional contact.
sellers, literary agents, librarians and all persons pro- The official languages of the Fair will be Catalan,
fessionally active in the publishing sector. All publish- Spanish, English, and French. (We will try to ensure simul-
ers of feminist books and women’s books are invited taneous translation for the most important sessions and
to participate. signing in English for the hearing-impaired.)
September /October 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:16 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Participation
All publishers of feminist or women’s books are
welcome to set up exhibition booths in the Fair, as are
women’s bookstores and book distributors, feminist
magazines and other periodical publications, and lit-
erary agents who — for the first time in the history of
the International Feminist Book Fair — will have their
own, specifically designated, space.
The professional days will be open to all persons
active in the field of feminist book publishing.
At a future time we will announce the proce-
dures for contracting the booths (provisional
price: 70.000 ptas., around 500 US$) as well as
registration fees for the professional sessions. We
intend to set up a collective booth and also foresee
the possibility of shared spaces with special
prices in order to facilitate the participation of
small presses.
Space will be limited and there is a need to
plan ahead with regard both to display needs and
lodging. Hotel rooms tend to be scarce in Barcelona,
particularly in the summer months. Please help us
to anticipate your needs by filling out the pre-
registration form (or sending your business
name, address, country, telephone and/or tele-
fax number, name of person[s] who will attend,
their position[s], languages spoken, description
of the press and major areas of publication, date
founded, number of titles published yearly, number
of people employed, authors you will bring with
you to the Fair, your interest in sharing/Collective
booth, type of accommodation desired [hote], pen-
sion, student residence, private homej, and activi-
ties related to your publishing activities that you
would be interested in participating in at the Fair)
and by spreading the word to anyone you know
might be interested in attending the Fair.
For more information, write to:
September /October 1989 10 Volume 12 Number 3
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:16 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsIV Feria Internacional IV Fira Internacional
del Libro Feminista del Llibre Feminista
De! 19 al 23 de junio de 1990. Barcelona Del 19 al 23 de juny de 1990. Barcelona
The International Bookfair in its fourth edition aims, once Tuesday - June 19
a t wg ha e oi n mF, a it aro n i )b s r i an tdg hd r eet s o s e edev x e t ir o sy t o en eae nc’ hs c ea at n t de o n ft ei vo en r wy ( w ohe mu mw eaa nnn t b e at io sn g s ,t pr me rs as on d t h uora ct ers, transmitters 9 4a pm m - - 3 7p pm m F Pa ri or f eo sp sie on n s e a l llt e o r s w, e odx i rsh t kri i sbb hui t ot or po sr s, s l, ib r al ri it ee s r aa nr d y t h ea g pre en ssts, book-
and consumers of culture in the 1990s. 7:30pm Cocktail reception for participants and the
press
This central theme of the Fair and the accompanying pro-
gram of activities expresses with rotund comprehensiveness Wednesday June 20
the reasons for the existence of an International Bookfair
where women are the protagonists. It's important and neces- 9 4a pm m - - 3 7p pm m F Pa ri or f eo sp sie on n a lo n w oa r kli sm hoit pe sd basis, as on Tuesday
sary to stress, as the present edition of the Fair proposes to 8pm Official Grand Opening Party for the Fair
do, women’s leading role in cultural reality in this end of the
century. A role often denied or at least distorted, which
should be duly valued, not only as a matter of plain justice, Thursday June 21
b wu ht e r a el s o w, e a n ard e m ano dr e w i hm ep ro er t wan e t , a r f eo r h et ah de in gs .ake of understanding 81 p0 m:30 a -m 1 0- p m8:00pm F Ra oi ur n do p e tn ab let o d t ish ce u s sp iu ob nlic
be pO ru er s e nci tt y w ii ts h p ar lo lu d t h et io r h eo xs pt r et sh sii vs e B po oo tk ef na tir ia l ,w h ase r e d e fw eo nm dee rn s w ofill Friday June 22
their rights and fighters for a new and more just humanity, as 10:30am - 8:00pm Fair open to the public
well as in the wider aspect of their live presence in the cultu- 8pm - 10pm Round table discussion
ral world.
Saturday June 23
Through our books, papers, debates, round-table discus-
sions with the presence of relevant authors from many diffe- 9 1: 00 :0 3a 0m pm - 8:30 pm GFa ri ar n do p Cen lo s it no g t h Pae r tp yu b -li c Summer Solstice ce-
lebration and “Revetlla de Sant Joan”
influence in this already mythicized turn of the century visi-
ble.
During the days of the Fair we plan to organize a number cf art exhibitions
MARIA AURÈLIA CAPMANY a an s d p ro ot dh ue cr e r p s,a r a tl rl ae nl s mac it ti tv ei rti se s a nt dh a t c o nw si ull m ef ro sc u os f w ci ud le t u a rt et e n int i o tn h e o n 1 9 9t 0h se . r Ino le d uo ef women
Writer t ri am l e p rw oge r aw mil sl is ne n d th eo u et v ea n id ne gt sa i l se od ap sr o ng or ta m t. o T ih ne t e ri fd ee ra e i s w it to h c to hn ec e pn rt ir mat ae r y t h oe b jc eu ctlt ivu e-
and Barcelona City Councillor of exhibition and sale of books at the Fair.
From the IV Fera brochure
IV International Feminist Bookfair (Executive Editor's note: This is an excellent time to write to the
committee: María José Aubet, Mireia Bofill, María Bookfair organizers and tell them of your interest in specific
Jesús Rico and Isabel Segura), València, 302, 08009 workshop topics, the need for workshops for booksellers,
Barcelona, Tel. (93) 487 28 94. issues you'd like to see the Fair discuss, etc. O
September /October 19 89
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:16 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsi
“A major contribution to our under- “At long last! This is the book that “Extraordinary... A stunning example of
sotfa n tdhine g f ioefld .”the parameters and direction ranedde etmhse tmhoet hmerost h weres awree. ” have betrayed tw hh ra ot u g c ho u tld h e b e a f fd eo cn te in gt ,o sc eh lfa -n og be s e rso vc inie gt ,y
American — P C sa yro cl h C i. a tN rad ie cl s Po an As, t s M P sr. oD e c. s, i id ae tn it, on “Sensitive a n— d S u csa on m W E pe d ai id t sm o sra i-n oin n -S C ac hh tin eee f .i , .d . e pLr i r, li oth vides literary enterp Nri es we o Yf o r v ki c t Ti im ms e. s” Book R —evJieilwl Johnston,
“ E aiwx n p cc o ig oi sm,t et i d a n c in hg th o, a a rscl lle ei n de onng i fg st a ci g n o W i g vcn a, oeg n r m , es eda h ni t n o i s Ds p f ap rey ni .r di tni - Ln h M g eg Ma. r a t, rn e E nj e od hv r tri ee a’s isr lt e r w He t Bs h o eas are y- lr k te- . hs” , Ph.D., pu f ios v r o w t e ai n lt h h r a enw l c a ai i t u s n i —e tog hn o a s Ha rn hn d ai d p r o r fs i d ip en tee T ec h pi w Gf eei o onc m li D dn ahg eg nnu o c’ r i s ed t h e Ll li oi is e fn v r ee n ss Ie. n” r t, i m P ah c. yD H., ardcover “ tS ciok hni i l ltl dof r u t ehl nl ey ’ sl i t ec srr a eta xuf r u et Wa e l ood mf . e a. t n. bha ’se u s R1d e e9i v8 .s ” i0 e t s Pw —i a n o p n o e c T rf bt o n a B ci o kc o M k o $scn 8N .9t a 5rr oi nb ,u-
Paperback $9.95
TH
GUIDE
OY WOmen
The P rim feof r o fW oLmi feen P rogr3am5
“H oe fr e L ai ts i n a Av moic ee r i cs ae ’sld o mm a j oh re ita yrd , , t hth ose e v woi hc oe an dJ E DA ANreaVt o rI P D oEf RthPeR B YeCs tsO elSlGinPgA O 1PND DN ,u I K MD.
hb o m tu r ae hu sa ,n r s e td f m fot e ulrh uir c se tht s t e uhtb n taua r t o rn e ad t .md te t ”en e a a ns t c tt h H —ieo vrf o e u, l E sn y s .L . od B ac Itti tu o rie n t r a y ct doa. hA ms f im sI, mf o e v a rr nw oiC dc i de a ce s P, e n a.a pBwr t eIe te u rr brta ao cl n k s A , $ 7m .9U 5e Cr Lic Aa, gR D t a an rh uie e idiia st dsd e e e . p ir f s rs o Tt e or h vt o ee h f fW ne e t s eo iit l gr nmh ie ngne se s g un pl b t o rae :c fn os l t ba da s m l a e e gl mc lol iooi r nn o sme g kg d p i t n l ahT ef g tato h te re 3 y 5 m ohm -3 ue pa5 rao y l- l urP t se h bl u e s asa rtn ed
Paperback $12.95 — Ms. HP AE RR PEE RN &N I RA OWL .P U | U BLJ ISHER SLIBRARY n jua st tu r ye' os u rw a hy e a lo tf h A n p g r oo Ead dlsd w i n a— rg ds o y B o s uu t r a lr it t no g n ar moe wa ed ! - Book ardcover
September /October 1989 12
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:16 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
By Kay Hagan text paper, the spiral bind, the hard back cover, and the
(After leaving the partnership of Atlanta's Charis stunning teal green cover did the trick, but the book
Books & More in 1984, I concentrated on writing and was expensive to produce. I was beginning to suspect
teaching workshops in journalkeeping and in feminist that the $15.95 price was not enough to break even, but
thought. In July of 1988, I published Internal Affairs, a as a former bookseller, I knew it was already pushing
journalkeeping workbook based on my workshops, and re- the limit. Encouraged by the pace of sales, I went back
c oe fn ft el ry f s ro ol md t Hh ae r pr ee rp r &in t R or wig /h St as n a Ff rt ae nr c ir sce oce . i v Ci an rg o l a n as k u en ds o mlic ei t e td o o ann d t h cae l l ir no ga d o nf o r b o ot kh se t o r re es st . (o Af l l t h toe l d f , a l il n, d 1o 9i 8n 9g , Iw o wrk ass h oo nps
relate the saga of this journey for FBN.)
One Friday night in early March this year, I re-
turned home after a concert of the Tibetan monks.
Their otherworldly chanting had a strangely hearten-
ing effect on my late winter doldrums, and as I
listened to the one lonely message on my answering
machine, I thought the monks had influenced my grip
on reality as well. The caller identified himself as the
editor-in-chief of Harper & Row, San Francisco, saying
he would like to talk to me about my book Internal
Affairs: a Journalkeeping Workbook for Self-
Intimacy. “If you're interested,” he said.
My mind began to race. My life for the past year
flashed before my eyes:
I self-published the book eight months before, in
July of 1988. Thanks to healthy prepublication orders, A JOURNALKEEPING WORKBOOK
the womyn’s festival season, and constantly being on FOR SELF-INTIMACY
the road doing workshops, this first printing of a
thousand sold out in five weeks. Great news, except I Kay Leiar Haaan
was forced to go back to press months earlier than I'd
anticipated so I could fill the holiday orders. With no the road over half the year.) On one trip in October, I
capital and the cash flow hell of self-publishing, I went from Albuquerque to Vancouver, B.C., in 16
boldly borrowed money from a circle of truly gener- days, doing four workshops and calling on 22 book-
ous women to finance a second printing of 5,000.1 was stores.
urgently trying to bring down the unit cost of Internal Brisk sales over the holiday season showed a
Affairs — a book Id designed and produced to be great trend: booksellers reported that customers were
“irresistible to write in.” The mist-green linen weave coming back and buying multiple copies, raving
Volume 12 Number 3 13 September /October 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:16 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
about the book for gifts, giving it to parents, friends, Cindy was patient, explaining gently that I just
lovers. Direct sales were excellent. By the middle of needed to accept that I was in business and that my
January, six months after publication, Id sold 3,500 business was growing very fast. Slowly I came out of
copies with almost no advertising — the book was my fetal curl and began to map out a marketing
selling grassroots, by customer recommendation, the strategy, prepare an investment proposal for banks,
best possible sales pattern. One of the closets in my and come to grips with reality. My longest friend and
tiny apartment had become “the shipping depart- former college roommate offered to co-sign a bank
ment,” and I spent many nights stuffing books into note for the working capital, using her house for col-
padded envelopes, and bubble-wrapping stacks of lateral. I hired an assistant to help with shipping.
books into cartons for bookstores and distributors. I Everything was going to be okay, really, it was. These
felt like UPS and the US Post Office were insatiable were good problems. I could adjust. It could be worse,
consumers of what little cash I had, but I was I told myself; I could be sitting on top of 5,000 books
exhilarated: my book was a hit! that weren’t selling and still be in as much debt. What
the hell, let's go hear some chanting monks.
I stared at my answering machine in wonder. Was
I interested in talking to Harper & Row? Can k.d. lang
sing? I played the message back at least fifty times. All
weekend, I imagined the possibilities, weighed out the
risks and, of course, considered the political implica-
tions. Early on, I had imagined a feminist publisher
When I sat down with Cindy Green-Fisher, my seeing the potential of the book to be a long-term
financial consultant, to plan out the year, she enthu- backlist title that could subsidize less marketable
siastically advised me to borrow more working capi- books, but I realized after making several inquiries
tal, “maybe $50,000,” she said, and invest it in that this was not likely. Their cash flow looked much
promotion and marketing. Suddenly I saw before me like mine, and since Internal Affairs is a general inter-
the consequences of my success. In addition to the $20 est rather than a specifically feminist book, their
thousand I'd already borrowed, I needed much more understandable commitment was to more political
money to keep the book in print and to do it justice. titles. My plan became to hang on to the book through
The book had already proven itself to have a virtually the 1990 holiday season, then shop around for a reprint
limitless potential. It would sell for a long time, to deal with a publisher who could take the book to the
many different markets. In addition to its commercial mainstream. But could I find one that would keep the
appeal (crossing over from writing to recovery, new book in print? One that would see the fantastic sales
age, self-help, and spirituality), it was being used as a potential? One that would do the book justice?
college textbook in freshman composition classes. It Through the years, I had heard dozens of horror sto-
was being used in church groups, and recommended ries of successful self-publishers who had been royally
by therapists for their clients. Institutional sales and ripped off by The Boys. I didn’t want to be a sap. But
direct mail looked exceptionally promising. But I Harper & Row/San Francisco: publishers of Susan
hadn't really intended to become a publisher. I self- Griffin, Starhawk, Vickie Noble, Monica Sjoo, Barbara
published so I could design my “perfect” workbook, Walker — with a reputation of having sales reps who
a nn od w p Ir o wdu ance t e dit t q ou i mck ol vy e. H ona .v i n I g a lsa occ o wm ap nl ti esh d e d In tt eh ra nt a, l a wc it tu ha l l by o oc ka sl ele lld e r so ,n o f te hm eri n i as ut t h b oo ro sk , s t ao nr de s ! v aA rif ot ue sr sc ao len ss u rlt ei pn sg , I
Affairs to reach its full potential, but I was realizing I realized that even if I'd followed my original plan to
might not be the one to do it. solicit reprint proposals from several publishers,
I spent much of the month of February curled in H&R/SF would probably be my top choice — “the best
a fetal position, anxiously wondering why I had of the boys” was a frequent description. If I were going
ruined my carefree life by writing and publishing a to take a chance, they seemed a good bet. And, after all,
wildly successful book which had now taken over my they were calling me. My writers group had the most
apartment, my debt ratio, and any time for writing. memorable advice: “Don’t fuck with destiny.”
September /October 1989 14
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:16 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
When the editor called back on Monday, I was come out, but so far, so good. I finally received the
ready to talk. He explained that he had been browsing signed contract and advance check on Lammas, the
in a Nashville bookstore (a Davis & Kidd, part of the pagan holiday. A positive sign, I thought.
Borders chain, I think) when he noticed Internal
Affairs on the shelf, “quite well-displayed,” he added.
He bought the book, started reading it on the plane
home, and “fell in love with it.” This was the begin-
ning of what so far has been a rather unnervingly
blissful relationship. After flying out to San Francisco
with Cindy acting as my agent, I came to an agreement
with them in April. Throughout the negotiation of Now I am starting on a second book (H&R put me
basic terms (the advance, royalties, and marketing under contract for another title), and continuing to
commitment), and the more painstaking contract write and publish Fugitive Information, a subscrip-
work, H & R has been open and fair, with both parties tion series of feminist essays. I have ordered Internal
making significant compromises to reach an agree- Affairs’ third printing of 1500 to fill holiday orders,
ment. Two points are of particular importance to me. although they will have to be handled solely through
First, to insure my ability to repay my investors, I distributors since by H&R’s request I must stop ship-
negotiated for a substantially larger advance than ping directly after September 15 . That’s right. I can
originally offered. It’s a trade-off, though, since of reclaim the shipping department soon, and burn the
course the “advance” must be earned back. With midnight oil writing feminist theory instead of pack-
standard royalty rates (starting at 7 1/2% and topping ing books. I am beginning to believe this whole
at 9%) paid only twice a year, I may not see further sequence has really happened. My cynicism about
income from Internal Affairs until late 1991. Second, mainstream publishers, finely honed from my years
to ease the “bought by the boys” feeling I got when I as a bookseller, abates for a moment every now and
read the option clause (on future work), I contrac- then and I imagine Internal Affairs selling steadily for
tually protected my right to self-publish at any time. many years, supported generously by H&R, their
deep pockets and 35-member sales force. If this is a
dream, don’t wake me.
Stay tuned for the continuing saga: Will the Big
Boys reveal their true colors now that the deal is done?
Will Kay decide to become a book distributor since
she’s played every other position on the board? And,
most importantly, will Internal Affairs get lost in the
They wanted to come out with the new edition oblivion of the mainstream, or outsell Codependent No
right away, setting a pub date of January, 1990. My More (another H&R title with over 650,000 copies in
dealings with the production and design departments print)?
have been wonderful — they solicited my suggestions
and criticism of both the cover and layout. While the Booksellers please note: The beautiful collector's edi-
new edition will have its own charm, the gorgeous tion (!) of Internal Affairs from Escapadia Press will be
text paper will have to go but the spiral binding will available from distributors (Bookpeople, New Leaf, Inland,
stay. The marketing director recently explained to me and Moving) through the holiday season. Try it: it sells very
that they see the book as a “long-term classic,” and well as a gift book. Blank books in the same paper and format
view its cross-market potential to be “incredible.” are available direct from the publisher, retail price $7.95
They are encouraging me to continue presenting (40% discount on 5+). The new edition can be ordered from
workshops, and have offered to contribute to my the winter catalogue of H&R/SF. If you would like to
travel expenses over the course of the next year as part discuss possibilities for a workshop or signing in 1990,
of promotion. At every step, I brace myself for the please contact me at Escapadia Press, 454 Seminole Ave.,
ugly, controlling side of the Conglomerate Monster to NE, #6, Atlanta, GA, 30307. Telephone (404) 688-6037. O
Volume 12 Number 3 15 September /October 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:16 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
A A R A
Arms and the Woman
War, Gender, and Literary Representation
Edited by Helen M. Cooper, Adrienne Auslander Munich, and Susan Merrill Squier
Combining feminist literary criticism with the emerging field of feminist war theory, this collection
explores the role of gender as an organizing principle in the war system. The authors reveal how
literature perpetuates the ancient myth of “arms and the man,” and they show how the gendered
conception of war has both shaped literary texts and formed the literary canon.
approx. 340 pp., $32.50 cloth, $12.95 paper
Women’s Writing in Exile
Edited by Mary Lynn Broe and Angela Ingram
These essays explore the varieties of exile women writers in Western culture have experienced over
the last hundred years. Using a broad range of methodologies, the contributors examine the
physical, sociopolitical, canonical, and psychological kinds of exile that women endure.
454 pp., $39.95 cloth, $13.95 paper
A Woman's Version of the Faust Legend
The Seven Strings of the Lyre by George Sand
Translated and with Introduction and Notes by George A. Kennedy
George Sands The Seven Strings of the Lyre, a response to Goethe’s Faust, is one of the very few
treatments of the Faust legend by a woman. George Kennedy offers the first English translation of
this work, along with an introduction that places Sands play in its philosophical and literary
context.
196 pp., $34.95
available at bookstores or from
The University of North Carolina Press Po: Office Box 2288 / Chapel Hil, NC 27515-2288
Toll-Free Orders 1-800-848-6224
September /October 1989 16 Volume 12 Number 3
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:16 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
sati aa aaa
tributors for larger orders. But, at the same time, it
makes mid- and small-sized orders more difficult.
Do you choose the “consolidate shipments” option
and wonder when the books will arrive or eat the
freight?
Calendars, Harpercrest, and Crowell have sepa-
rate discount schedules.
In mid-August Harper & Row (after months of Freight Pass Through has been eliminated in
rumors and high hopes) announced a new discount favor of free freight.
schedule, a commitment to consolidating shipments, Last Minute Update: H&R has revised their policy to
and free freight on shipments with a net invoice value free freight for every order of 100 or more books O
of $100 or more.
Harper and Row has, for years, ranked right up
there on everyone's list of the most maddening pub-
lishers for their particular genius in dividing even the
smallest orders into two or three shipments from two
or three different warehouses — and charging the
bookstore for all the postage, of course. So their new
commitment to consolidated shipping is good news
indeed. Generous and prompt response from the Boston
The free freight catch is that it’s free freight for area women’s community to our fund raising appeal
shipments with a net invoice value of $100 or more. has enabled New Words to build a wheel chair ramp
The determining factor is the size of Harper’s ship- along the side of the store. Donna Cohen of Boston
ment, not the size of the bookseller’s order. So if the Center for Independent Living designed it and we
warehouse is inefficient, or if some of the titles ordered hired Smokey Eule, Women’s Woodwork Construc-
are backordered the bookseller may still end up pay- tion Co., to build it. Carpenters Catherine Autio and
ing for freight. It is definitely a plan that favors larger Ruth Ewing have built a handsome and sturdy ramp
bookstores and penalizes smaller stores. Still, given and opened up the side of the building for a new door.
the size (and shipping costs) of many feminist book- It should be completed by the end of August. We're
stores’ Fall and Spring Harper and Row frontlist and also installing a line for a TTY machine and that, too,
backlist orders, it should reduce costs significantly. will be operational in September. We are continuing to
The new discount schedule is a flat 46% discount raise funds in the hopes that we can make the base-
for Harper paperbacks (48% for floor displays). As we m sibe ln et a( lr se oa .dings, meetings and crafts fair area) acces-
understand the new terms, hardcover, Harper San
Francisco, Perennial Library, Colophon, Barnes & It’s been exciting to watch the work progress and
Noble, and Basic combine for 30% for 1-19 books, our environment change daily. Customers are thrilled
42% for 20-249 books, 44% for 250-1,499, and 45% if and interested. We've also received so much support
you can top 1,500. This schedule combined with free and encouragement that it has made the necessary
freight makes ordering direct much more economi- mess easier to bear.
cal than ordering Harper & Row titles from dis- — Mary Lowry, New Words O
17 September /October 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:16 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Columbia University Press has announced a new Linda Hasselstrom and Barn Owl Books have
book series, Between Men~Between Women: Lesbian settled out of court in a copyright infringement case
and Gay Studies. The new series will be under the against Harlequin Enterprises Limited of Ontario,
general editorship of Richard D. Mohr, Professor of Canada, and romance author Parris Afton Bonds.
Philosophy at the University of Illinois, Urbana. The Hasselstrom’s book, Windbreak: A Woman Ranch-
goal of the Series is to publish pathbreaking scholar- er on the Northern Plains, was published by Barn Owl
ship on lesbian and gay culture in the humanities and Books in June 1987. It chronicles one year of Has-
social sciences. It will include books which rest within selstrom’s rugged life on her family’s South Dakota cattle
specific traditional disciplines and are substantially ranch. The book was favorably reviewed by both FBN
about gay men and/or lesbians; interdisciplinary and The New York Times, became a Literary Guild Alter-
works which reveal new insights into gay and lesbian nate Selection, and gathered a devoted readership.
experience; and titles that begin to establish lesbian In June 1988 Hasselstrom received a copy of a
and gay studies as a free-standing inquiry. Works may letter one of Windbreak’s readers had sent to Sil-
be empirical, theoretical, historical, historicist, critical, houette Books (a division of Harlequin), regarding
interpretive, analytical or normative. The advisory That McKenna Woman by Parris Afton Bonds. Refer-
board of editors includes John Boswell, Claudia Card, ring to the Bonds novel, the irate reader wrote, “I very
Richard Green, Larry Gross, Gilbert Herdt, Barbara much resent paying $2.75 for a book that I assume is
Johnson, and Rhonda Rivera. o original material, only to find that so many parts — the best
parts in fact — are in no way original.” Hasselstrom
bought a copy of the book in question, and found over
seventy passages Which echoed her own words in
Windbreak. For example, page 107 of That McKenna
Woman reads “The women talked about who had had
babies and who had died. The men discussed wetter
or drier years, and worse winters,” only a tense
change different than Hasselstrom’s “The women talk
Knights Press has formed a committee to about who had babies and who died. The men talk
develop a Gay and Lesbian Day at the New York about wetter or drier years and worse winters (page
Public Library. The event will feature gay and lesbian 126, Windbreak).” In addition to overt plagiarism, her
books as well as readings, lectures, performances, account of her own life had been used to give back-
personal appearances and signings by writers. ground and credibility to the story of a Hollywood
Knights Press editor and author Tim Barrus has been actress, convicted on a drug-dealing charge, who is
named to head the committee. Knights Press is cur- sentenced to six months labor on a cattle ranch.
rently seeking letters of support for the New York All retrievable copies of That McKenna Woman
Library project from gay writers, publishers and edi- have been recalled and destroyed by Harlequin.
tors. Letters should be sent to Tim Barrus, C/O Windbreak, now in its second printing, continues to
Knights Press, PO Box 454, Pound Ridge NY 10576. be available from Barn Owl and its distributors. Linda
Funding for the project will come from both public Hasselstrom has been named to the South Dakota Hall
and private grant sources. Participating writers will of Fame as Author of the Year for the state’s centennial
bqe uchoaselni tbyy se le ctoiofn co mtmhitteee i brase d own otherk. O year. The July issue of Life magazine featured her
journal of this year’s calving season on the ranch.
18
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:16 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Pg 7: “The unwritten rule of horsemanship is never Pg. 33: “The first rule of riding is never to grab the
to hold onto the saddle horn in front of witnesses... saddle pommel in front of witnesses,’ Tom Malcolm
George insists my saddle horn has teethmarks in it told Shyloh. But Rand doesn’t count. His saddle
where I tried to get an extra grip when holding on pommel has teeth marks in it from when holding
with both hands wasn’t working.” on with both hands wasn’t enough.’ ”
Pg. 76: “People always say of moonlight that it’s Pg. 86 “About how people sometimes say the
‘bright as day,’ but how completely wrong. The moonlight is as bright as day. But I don’t think so.
light has such a different quality, soft and caressing It’s a soft and caressing light, not a merciless and
instead of harsh and revealing.” revealing one.’ ”
Pg. 72-3: “Why do we do this? No one ranches for the Pg. 66: “Why did he do it? he asked himself. Cer-
money, and it’s not that we're all masochists. It's as tainly no one ranched for the money. It wasn’t as
though we have a covenant with nature, that we're though he enjoyed suffering and hardship. It was as
bound to see it through, to figure out a way, every year, though he was honor bound to see this through
in every emergency, to survive. It's less like a battle than every season, every crisis. When he succeeded, he
a marriage. The problems perhaps serve to enhance our felt as if he had accomplished something. And the
feelings of accomplishment when we succeed, and the more difficult or dangerous the circumstance, the
more complex or dangerous the situation, the greater greater the exhilaration when it was all over and he
the exhilaration when we live through it.” had come out triumphant.” O
Volume 12 Number 3 19
September /October 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:16 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
NEW RELEASES FROM REDWOOD!
Note by Note
A Guide to Concert Production
NOLAN
Freedom
Freedom to Love
by Faith Nolan
Written by Redwood Cultural Work, Community Music, and Friends
Edited by Joanie Shoemaker
PEGGY SEEGER
A Guide To Concert Production
is out and better than ever! Note By
Note isa must for producers, artists,
promoters and community groups.
familiar faces
Now on
Compact Disc:
p Altazor
Š :
ONN aa JplRE-
NN
REDWOOD
RDS
RES Redwood Records • 6400 Hollis, Suite 8
Emeryville CA 94608 • 415/428-9191
September /October 1989 20 Volume 12 Number 3
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:16 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
By Sigrid Nielsen The idea for this column came from reading FBN
West & Wilde Bookshop avidly and faithfully and noticing that books which
were out of print on the other side of the Atlantic were
Well, here it is...the new column that takes you often available here (we'd always known about the
into the adventurous world of an import-export firm. reverse situation, of course). It struck us that we could
(No, it’s not a cover for espionage, though the money’s help American shops offer a greater range of material,
probably not so bad and we'll gratefully consider all just as imports had made a difference to us in the early
offers — payment in sterling please). days. In this column, we'll try to bring you as much as
we can of the best of British women’s books, new,
E reissued, and just plain worthy-of-another-look.
Of course, we'll only have space for some of them.
If you want our full list, you can write us at West &
Start at the beginning. We’re Scotland’s lesbian Wilde. We'll also send you our terms and when your
and gay and feminist bookshop, West & Wilde. In our orders come, we would be mad not to admit that we'll
seven-year existence, we've expanded into mail-order process them with ferocious speed and very complete
bookselling (to Singapore, Saudi Arabia and Poland as reporting on availability. That’s the only way we've
well as Perth and Inverness and Glasgow) and managed to survive Thatcher’s Britain and grow in
wholesale distribution. We now supply shops in spite of the what-d'you-call-it economic miracle.
Europe and the U.S.A. with the growing range of These listings are based on a mixture of publish-
women’s/gay books published in Britain. ers’ material and our own knowledge (more of the
Our experience started with dire necessity. Pub- former than the latter, since these are forthcoming
lishers in Britain weren’t interested in the books we books). We'll look forward to hearing from you or
needed in the seventies, so we imported large num- even seeing you if you're in Edinburgh.
bers of them from the U.S.A. But as we gathered
information on the ins and outs of transatlantic book-
selling, UK publishers started to catch up, and soon
we had a home-grown product on offer as well as our
(much-sought-after) imports. Now read on:
The first women’s and gay titles in the UK were Everything is Nice: The Collected Stories by
almost all produced by independent feminist or gay Jane Bowles (Virago, £4.50 pb, 1-85381-052-5). Jane
presses. Some of these, like Virago, grew very large; Bowles’ short stories are surreal, disturbing, laugh-
Virago is now probably the largest feminist firm in the able and supremely confident. For those who haven't
world. There were also numerous small feminist, read Millicent Dillon’s fascinating biography, A Little
‘radical and ‘alternative’ presses. In the mid-eighties, Original Sin, Jane was an avant-garde writer who lived
mainstream publishers here began to notice there was first in New York and later in Tangier, haunted the
gold in them thar uppity females, and they created New York lesbian scene in her twenties, married the
feminist imprints and gave some lesbian and gay writer and composer Paul Bowles (but went on have
novels major publicity. The International Feminist relationships with women all her life) and wrote these
Book Fair and Feminist Book Fortnight began in 1984, short stories in spite of painful writing blocks and a
and became huge national promotions. Suddenly we long illness. They capture silence, alienation,
had the scope to offer exports as well as imports. awkward and shy women bridging the not-quite-
21 September /October 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:16 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
bridgeable. This new collection includes several new Willa Cather by a well- known critic who has written
stories discovered after Jane Bowles’ death. on Virginia Woolf, Elizabeth Bowen, and Philip Roth,
A Letter to Christendom by Ranna Kabbani Hermione Lee explores Cather as a writer of split
(Virago, £3.99, 1- 85381-119-X, October). In this impas- identities, sexual conflict, dramatic energies and stoic
sioned letter to the West, Rana Kabbani leads the fatalism.
reader through the labyrinthine world of Islam. She Grace Robertson: Photojournalist of the 50s
sets the historical record of western prejudice against (Virago, £16.99 pb, 1-85381-089-4, October). Every
her own experience of life in the West, where mis- week, through the war and into the fifties, Picture Post,
understanding and fear continue to inform most a British version of Life, detailed the life of Britain and
people's perceptions of Islam. She uses the Salman the rest of the world through its famous photographs.
Rushdie affair to illustrate the ways that the old forms At nineteen, Grace Robertson broke into what was
of hatred and bigotry surface to wage contemporary largely a male domain — she submitted her first pic-
political battles and makes a pleas for a new dialogue tures under a male pseudonym. Her work ranges from
between the two civilizations. Born in Damascus, edu- subjects as diverse as a women’s pub outing to a
cated in the U.S.A. and Britain, Rana Kabbani is now woman giving birth (rejected by the magazine as ‘too
a novelist living in London. raw’) to the timeless life of a Welsh farming commu-
nity. Grace Robertson tells the stories behind the pic-
E tures and describes her life as one of the few women
photographers of her day, and contrasts her years with
Picture Post with her later, very different work for Life.
Will You Still Love Me Tomorrow? Girl Groups Ida Kar: Photographer 1907-1974 by Val Williams
from the Fifties On by Charlotte Greig (Virago, £9.99 (Virago, £22.50, 1-85381-1041, October). Ida Kar came
pb, 1-85381-002-9, August). Were they trivial to London in 1945 after making her reputation in
screamers, music biz hustlers, or a great pop tradition? Cairo. She was a stylish avant-garde photographer
This book looks at girl pop groups from the days of and in London she found a new bohemia and spent
doo wop in the fifties to the punk, funk and hip hop the next fifteen years portraying it. She photographed
groups of the eighties. The stories of groups like the every new and important artist and writer, including
Supremes, the Crystals, the Three Degrees and Doris Lessing, while her documentary studies took in
Bananarama reflect women’s attitudes to love, sex and London street life, her native Armenia, and Castro's
marriage over thirty years. Music journalist and Cuba. This new study looks at her life as well as her
former girl group member Greig doesn’t neglect the work and extraordinary success.
behind-the-scenes exploitation stories of the music
business itself and the ways women artists found to
resist. G
Women Artists and the Pre-Raphaelite Move-
ment by Jan Marsh and Pamela Gerrish Nunn (Virago, On Art and Therapy: An Exploration by Martina
£15.95 pb, 0-86086-065-7, September). The Pre- Thomson (Virago, £6.99 pb, 1-85381-045-2, August).
Raphaelite art movement of the nineteenth century is ‘Art Therapy’ began when practitioners realized that
often know as a brotherhood. But it attracted three drawing and painting had healing effects on people.
generations of female artists as well, and this book Early art therapists tried to set spontaneity and imagi-
revives dozens of their works. Drawings, paintings, nation free, but today verbal explorations of the im-
photography and glasswork from such artists as Anna ages predominate in treatment. Martina Thomson
Mary Howitt, Eleanor Fortescue Brickdale, Catherine looks at the arguments for a return to greater emphasis
Maddox Brown and dozens more, some of whose on the value of the creative process itself. What does it
ew xo hr ik bs it eh da .ve never been seen since they were first bm ee a en f f t eo c t e‘ dse e b’ y a n cd r e a‘b te iv es e e vn is’? u a lC iza an t i op nh ,y s bi oo tlo hg i c inal n ec rh a an ng de outer?
Willa Cather: A Life Saved Up by Hermione Lee Scarlett’s Women: Gone With the Wind and its
(Virago, £12.99 pb, 0-86068-661-2, October). A book on Female Fans by Helen Taylor (Virago, £7.99 pb, 0-
September /October 1989 Volume 12 Number 3
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:16 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
86068-828-3). Gone With the Wind has been showing for first young women’s novels in the UK to deal with the
fifty years. The book has been translated into twenty- subject of. sexual abuse of girls (it won the Other
seven languages. Helen Taylor, senior lecturer in liter- Award for young-people’s- fiction in 1987). I Never
ary studies, has published widely in British and Told Her I Loved Her is about teenage Francie, whose
American popular culture, and she takes a look at the mother dies in the midst of their less-than-happy rela-
story's enduring appeal, especially for women. tionship. Francie feels enormous grief. She also feels
Forgetting’s No Excuse: The Autobiography of guilty. And she has to deal with her father’s grief as
Mary Stott, Journalist, Campaigner and Feminist well as her own, even though he refuses to accept her
(Virago, £6.50 pb, 1- 85381-102-5, August). Mary Stott help. A realistic young people's novel on a usually-
became a journalist in 1925 at age 17. She struggled avoided subject.
u Up Kw 'sa r md o st th r o inu fg lh u e nt th ie a l p wro of mes es ni o n jo ut ro n ab lie sc to sm , e w oo mne e n ’o sf the V7
page editor of the Guardian (then known as the
Manchester Guardian) from 1957. (The Guardian is Bri-
tain’s major ‘liberal’ newspaper — whatever that Not a Passing Phase: Reclaiming Lesbians in
means. But, with a few lapses, the Guardian has sup- History by the Lesbian History Group (The Women’s
ported feminism in a country of some of the most Press, £5.95 pb, 0-7043- 4175-1, October). Lesbians
anti-female newspapers you've ever been lucky have a way of disappearing from history and bio-
enough not to know about.) Her story covers the great graphy. This collection brings them back where they
days of the women’s liberation movement in the six- belong and focuses on passionate friendships of such
ties and seventies, the enormous changes in news- figures as Charlotte Brontë, George Eliot, Vera Brittain
paper production, and the human side of Mary Stott’s and others. Originally scheduled for June publication,
career — her marriage and later widowhood. With a this one has become one of our most wildly popular
new afterword. advance orders.
Transforming Moments ed. by Scarlet McGwire Sexing the Cherry by Jeanette Winterson
(Virago, £3.99 pb, 1-85381-014-2, October). This is one (Bloomsbury, £12.95 cl, 0-7475-0464-4, September).
of Virago’s books for young women, their Upstarts Jeanette Winterson grew up in an evangelical commu-
series. It collects pieces by a large assortment of nity in the north of England, found a job with Bril-
women — from Maya Angelou to Priscilla Presley — liance, a small lesbian and gay press, wrote a lesbian
telling the stories of life-altering moments from their comedy about coming out evangelical style (Oranges
teenage years. First love in the Warsaw ghetto, a Are Not the Only Fruit), then published several more
‘white’ Australian girl discovering her Aboriginal an- books, all to instant success and critical acclaim —
cestry, leaving home and loving it, first realization of especially her last novel, The Passion. We know no-
lesbianism. Nell McCafferty, outspoken lesbian thing about this one except that it’s supposed to be ʻa
journalist who writes for some of the best-known Irish high-wire act of literary virtuosity’ and that it’s likely
papers, describes how Elvis Presley helped to liberate to follow its predecessors to fame and fortune and
Northern Irish teenagers in Derry. popularity.
Able Lives: Women’s Experience. of Paralysis Mary Queen of Scots Had Her Head Chopped
ed. by Jenny Morris (The Women’s Press, £6.95 pb, Off and Dracula by Liz Lochhead (Penguin UK, £3.99
0-7043-4155-7). This is a collection about the nitty- pb). Liz Lochhead is one of Glasgow's most gifted
gritty of differently abled women’s everyday lives. young playwrights and an outspoken feminist. (She's
Housing, money, careers, pain, incontinence, sex and been known to take time she can ill afford to appear at
motherhood are among the challenges they face — as Edinburgh bookshop events and conferences.) Her
well as the reality of hospitalization and continuing work is known for its outrageous humour and gutsy
treatment. realism. Mary Queen of Scots won an award when it
I Never Told Her I Loved Her by Sandra Chick was performed in the Edinburgh Festival Fringe and
(The Women’s Press, £2.95 pb, 0-7043-4912-4). A new now appears in paper to relate the definitely unromantic
novel from the author of Push Me, Pull Me, one of the ups and downs of Scotland's unluckiest queen.
September /October 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:16 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
More Work for Mothers: The Ironies of House-
© New Women's Books in hold Technology by Ruth Schatz Cowan (Free Asso-
4 Literature and History ciation Press, £10.95 pb, 1- 85343-076-5). This is a
history of three centuries of household technology. It
LITERATURE shows how men once had their own extensive set of
New Stories by Southern Women household chores, which, due to new inventions, have
edited by Mary Ellis Gibson now almost disappeared — there’s little left except
T whi hs oc o ll gec rti eon w b r uin pgs t io ng et h te hr e t w Sen ot uy- to hne s at nor die s hby a v w eo m pen ublished important taking out the rubbish. But higher standards of clean-
fiction in the last decade.”The Southern literary imagination liness have meant that women spend as much time on
courts unusual breadth in this collection . .. Gibson has housework as they did three hundred years ago, if not
chosen wisely in ranging widely, avoiding provincialism in more.
a regional guise.”—Publishers Weekly 291 pages—Cloth,
0-87249-633-3, $24.95s—Paper, 0-87249-634-1, $14.95 Too Long a Child: The Mother-Daughter Dyad
Understanding Understanding by Nini Herman (Free Association Press, £12.95 pb,
Denise Levertov Katherine Anne Porter 1-85343-067-6). A psychotherapist shows how
PC alo pt eh r ,,b y 00 -- 88H 77a 22r 44r 99y -- 55 77M 98 --a 57r ,,t e $n $ 12 0 1b .. 99y 55 ss D a PCr all o pe t en h re ,, H 00 --a 88r 77b 22o 44u 99r -- 55 88U 43n --r 13u ,, e $$ 12 01 .. 99 55 ss vm ao lut eh e r es a c ha n d ot hd ea ru g ah st e sr es p as rt ar tu eg g bl ee i n t go s . r Wec hog ern ei z e t h a en yd
succeed, their relationship can be the source of
Understanding Understanding strength; where they fail, it can lead to frustration,
Carson McCullers Mary Lee Settle madness and sometimes even suicide.
by Virginia Spencer Carr by George Garrett
Cloth, 0-87249-661-9, $21.95s Cloth, 0-87249-540-X, $21.95s Intimacy by Susan Chace (Serpent's Tale, £6.95
Understandin Pagper, 0- 87u249- 541 -8,j $ 10 .95Ts I pb, 1-85242- 156-8, August). Looking back at age 40,
_ All titles available at your Cecelia recalls her political involvement, the break-
J obyyc eG rCeagr o lJ oOhantseosn l ofcoarl ba o o ffk orrse t eao r fcre eo. e p cyC opa y lol fo f o r oou ur wr cur ri rt ee nt td oo uw cn h o wf i t hh e r h e rtw co h im lda rr er ni .a g Se hs e 'a sn d t o rh ne r b es tt wri ev ei nn g a t o n e ek de e p f o rin
P Calopthe,r ,0 - 8072-489-752244-89,- 582215.9-565 , = $| 1 L0us.a9lo5es a nSd baomgksm-ini-sptrtinmt.msdi independence and a craving to be possessed, but finds
HT ISE TT ORT YETETT ETTTTTTTTTTETTETTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTETTTTT a fragile balance.
Charleston Recollections and Receipts:
Rose P. Ravenel’s Cookbook
edited by Elizabeth Ravenel Harrigan
A unique collection of the Charleston memories and receipts
of Rose P. Ravenel (1850-1943), daughter of a Huguenot
p Cl la on thte ,r , 0 -m 87e 2r 4c 9h -a 6n 4t 7, - 3 ,a n d $1 4s .h 95ipowner. 125 pages—Illustrated— For Sylvia: An Honest Account by Valentine
Ackland (Chatto & Windus, £6.95 pb). Poet Valentine
A Rebel Came Home: The Diary and Ackland wrote this autobiography when her relation-
Letters of Floride Clemson, 1863-—1866 ship with Sylvia Townsend-Warner was going
edited by Ernest McPherson Lander, Jr. through a bad patch. It tells about her persistent prob-
tT eh r e o fd a u Jg oh ht ne r C o . f Ca n aT ld h h o o m uC nh a sa r r l G ee cs r o e reM dn s. CM thlec emG e s pe o r, n o bJ lar en m. d s g or fan d wd aa ru tg imh- e wle om m aw n it fh r iea nlc do h o anli dsm h ea rs fw ae tl hl e ra ’s s h fe or r c ee da r l sy e p aa rf af ta ii or n w oi fth a
travel and the shocking change of circumstances found in the the two women, followed by a disastrous marriage,
C Co lon tf he ,d e 0r -a 8c 7y 2 4 u 9-p 6o 4n 2 - 2h ,e r $r 2e 2tu .9r 5n. Revised edition—225 pages— and her happier years with Sylvia. It’s being reissued
to coincide with the publication of Sylvia Townsend-
A Woman Doctor's Civil War: Esther Hill Hawks’ Diary Warner's biography and reads like a novel. (The re-
edited by Gerald Schwartz maindered U.S. cloth edition is available from Alyson
Illustrated — PaC pl eo rth , , 0 -0 8- 78 27 42 94 -9 6- 24 23 -5 8- ,7 , $ 9$ .2 91 5.95 Press while supplies last.)
University of South Carolina Press As we go to press 1£ = $1.61.
1716 College St., Columbia, SC 29208, (803) 777-5075 West & Wilde Bookshop, 25a Dundas Street, Edin-
burgh EH3 6QQ Scotland. Tel 031-556 0079 O
September /October 1989 24
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:16 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
But Can She Type?
By Nett Hart sions except the few Spanish or French versions.
Translations are expensive. Sometimes more than lan-
In the beginning of this wave of feminism, all guage translation is necessary to make a work acces-
works by women were in translation. We had not yet sible to another culture. Readership of most feminist
found our native tongue, our mother tongue, our own books is relatively low, so translation costs seem pro-
hibitive. Publishing is an extremely small margin bus-
iness anyhow.
How do we put the globe So, how do we put the globe in global feminism?
A feminism of North American interests will be
in global feminism? grossly skewed toward industrial society and western
ethics, that is, inadequate to address world concerns
except from an imperialist mentality. How do we cre-
voices and so we documented that search in the lan- ate exposure for the works we do have in translation?
guage of the oppressor. The academic tone prevailed The burden for cultural exchanges is not only the
in order to be taken seriously. Then multiple voices
began to be heard, various experiences, various
“backgrounds” and identities. Soon we became a
chorus. In English.
A few writers and publishers work bilingually in
Spanish and English in the US, French and English in
eastern Canada, but for the most part what most of us
in North America have read has been produced and
distributed in English only, available here and else-
where to English readers only. With a few notable
exceptions, most work written in languages other
than English never reaches our bookshelves.
To this we add the dilemma that few North Amer-
icans are able or willing to read in the original lan-
g exu ca hg ae ns g eo f i nm a wn hy a t f e wm ei n bis et ls ie. v eS o i sw e a r we oc re li dv we i dli et t l me o c vu el -tural From Monde des Femmes, 5/89
ment. Curious, eh? responsibility of women in second and third world
Some publishers in English sell translation /pub- coulntriees. tras. O
lication rights to European publishers. I don’t know of Esta es la pregunta por la encuentra de mujeres en
any who publish and distribute other language ver-
September /October 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:16 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
September /October 1989 26 Volume 12 Number 3
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:16 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
2)
ooo 9 O
Mainstream Business mation Center has addresses for all of the above plus
It’s that time of year again: ABA is making plans 37,000 people across the country who have a serious
for next June's ABA convention. Final decisions will interest in contemporary literature. No charge for tele-
be made in early November, so if you have sugges- phone information (maximum of5 addresses per call).
tions for panels, workshops or tutorials, call or write The phone line is open 11 A.M. to 3 P.M. EST, Monday
Allan Marshal, ABA’s Director of Professional - Friday. 1-212-226-3586. In California, call 1-800- 666-
Development & Education by Friday, October 20th. 2268, 8 A.M. to noon, PST. Send orders (prepaid) for
(Phone: 1-800-637-0037. ABA, 137 W. 25th St., NY NY the directory to Poets & Writers, 72 Spring St., NY NY
10001.) 10012.
Publisher's Weekly has scheduled a major article
o isn s u eG . a y T h ean d w o L re ds b ii sa n t hp au tb li Ps Whi n g pl a f no sr a i t ms aD joe rc e m pib ece er o6 fth 900 SL
investigative journalism for this issue - - a rare oppor-
tunity as none of the lesbian or gay publishers adver- Sorting through the AIDS literature: Sasha Aly-
tise in significant quantitie$, so there's no harm done son and Alyson Press have compiled a new edition of
if anyone is offended. Whatis it that troubles me about A Bibliography of AIDS-Related Books. This edition, like
this approach...? the last edition, is a dream-come-true for booksellers
Books by Wire, having discovered “that book- who are committed to maintaining an intelligent and
sellers and florists are as different as apples and useful AIDS section but who can’t keep up with the
oranges” (according to Newswire), suspended opera- literature. In this edition eleven reviewers, book-
tion this summer. One wonders when corporate sellers, AIDS activists and educators grade and briefly
America will discover that books aren't merely com- comment on the books they know from a list of 200
modities to be merchandised like deodorants or auto- books supplied by Giovanni's Room, A Different
mobiles... Light, and Lambda Rising Bookstores and the Words
It’s Banned Book Week September 23-30. Time to Project for AIDS. In the resulting bibliography, each
display all the books that have been banned or cen- evaluator’s comments and ratings are listed for each
sored in various parts of our worlds... titles. So the listings not only indicate which titles were
universally liked (Paul Monette’s Borrowed Time re-
Resources ceived all A's) but also which are controversial
The 1989-90 Directory of American Poets and (Louise Hay’s You Can Heal Your Life got every grade
Writers, listing addresses and phone numbers for from B to F) and which lack any redeeming value
6,600 poets and fiction writers, is heading for the (such as William Master's book Crisis: Heterosexual
printer. At $16.95 (pre-publication offer, $19.95 post- Behavior in the Age of AIDS which received all D's
publication), it’s a great resource for bookstores look- and F's). Single copies are available free by sending
ing for the address of a particular writer they'd like to a 6" x 9" (or larger) self-addressed envelope with
invite to read..... Or better yet, Poets and Writers Infor- two first-class stamps to Alyson Publications, 40
Volume 12 Number 3 September /October 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:16 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Plympton St., Boston MA 02118 and requesting the writing out shelf lists by title, author, publisher, price,
title. Available in bulk at $1.00 each, less the standard ISBN, quantity, et al. A typist, hired specially for the
bookstore discount. occasion, entered the inventory, and the system is up
and running! We’ll get a report later on this variation-
New Books on Women & Feminism is probably on-the-theme for getting a store's inventory into the
the most complete listing of new feminist books going. computer.
Full bibliographic information (but no annotations)
for 2000+ books and periodicals culled from publish- 12. A3
ers’ catalogs, reviews (everything from Library Journal
to Lesbian Contradiction including FBN — complete
with issue citations for reviews!) and the local Promotion
women’s bookstore, A Room of One's Own. Books are To liven up the traditionally slow summer sales,
arranged alphabetically by author within subject Ariel Books in Vancouver did a four day Festival of
classifications. Excellent subject and author indexes Women’s Books that featured two mystery and
maket a pleasure to use. You're on your own, though, science fiction books for the price of one on Friday,
finding publisher addresses. Published by Susan E. 50% discount on all local feminist publisher Press
Searing, Women’s Studies Librarian for the University Gang titles on Saturday, a sale on kids’ books on
of Wisconsin System, 112A Memorial Library, 728 Sunday with free balloons and face-painting and one-
State St., Madison WI 53706. Compilers for this edition free for four on cards on Monday with a storewide
were Carolyn Wilson, Linda Shult, Susan Searing, discount of 10% on everything all weekend.
Alice Hoeltke, Kathy Kramin, Claire Tarpey, and In- Sisterspirit offers their customers a 10% discount
grid Markhardt. Available by subscription only. Sub- on The Author of the Month. Featured authors have
scriptions include all of the publications of the WSL included Alice Walker, Toni Morrison, Katherine V.
Office: New Books, Feminist Collections, Feminist Period- Forrest, Ann Allen Shockley, Marion Zimmer Bradley
icals and other occasional publications. $20/ year. and Rita Mae Brown. For August the discount was
extended to any mystery novel in the store.
“Tis the season to send your bookstore’s name and A Different Drummer (with the consent of Naiad
address to Gayellow Pages if you aren't already listed. Press) put their address and logo on a Naiad order
Send a SASE for an application form to Renaissance blank that lists all of Naiad’s titles, videos, and the
House GY, Box 292 Village Station, NY NY 10014. remaining No Frills titles and sent it to their mailing
list.... Certainly an economical promotion piece! The
results aren't in yet. Stay tuned...
000 | O General bookstore Grand Books, that wonderful
Birthdays o pa ies cis e i fn o r J a tc hk es o mn o H nto hle :, TW hey o Gm ri an ng d, h Ba os o k m s y C l of sa ev to r Cit oe u r p ier ro m —o- a
Vancouver Women’s Bookstore celebrated their four page listing of lesbian and gay fiction and non-
16th anniversary July 22nd with a 15%-off sale. Collec- fiction, bestsellers, gay- and lesbian-oriented recovery
tively run and volunteer-staffed Sisterspirit Bookstore books (including fiction!), music, videos with special
in San Jose celebrated their fifth birthday on the same sections for ‘parents of’ and for therapists and ther-
day with their annual Lavender Dance featuring 50's apees'. I don't know what the Closet Couriers circulation
and 60's music, a costume contest, door prizes and all is, but l'll bet it covers a lot of territory! It should be taken
the finest women in their community. Charis Books & to ABA to provide an example for other general book-
More in Atlanta is planning events for their 15th anni- sellers with a strong, if closeted, clientele.
versary this fall. Nell McCafferty (author of Peggy Deery: An Irish
Computers Family at War, Cleis Press) is featured in the September
issue of Ms. Magazine. The article is about the British
Modern Times has gone Booklog! Bookstore occupation of northern Ireland’s effect on women and
friends, volunteers, and staff spent several nights it mentions Peggy Deery.
September/October 1989 28
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:16 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Cleis title AIDS: The Women is the subject of an
Associated Press news feature that will be running
in August and September in various newspapers
across the county. Full length story with photos! If
it runs in your area, please send a clip to Cleis Press
editor Felice Newman, PO Box 8933, Pittsburgh PA
15221. Clips are the only way Cleis will know where
it ran.
Mega-Sales Canadian Content is now just over one year old.
Naiad Press reports that, without any spectacular Past columns have presented a general overall view of
events, last quarter was the largest in Naiad’s history. what Canadian feminist bookstores are up to and
Meanwhile, arch-conservative Rupert Murdoch, some of the particular interests and problems related
mega-owner and mega-buyer of Harper & Row, et al., to the trade in Canada.
has announced his intention to be the leading world- At the outset I undertook to write a column for
wide publisher of English-language books within one year, to initiate a forum for Canadian feminist
three years. booksellers to discuss issues pertaining particularly to
our experiences in the trade.
K7 One year is hardly enough time to rematch voices
000 o O over the phone with the women who were at the 3rd
International Bookfair let alone profile the diverse
Books situations of individual Canadian stores, but some-
Bearhand Publishing/Heart Warrior’s printer thing interesting has happened as a result of the
backed out on their printing arrangement and publi- availability of the generous space in FBN.
cation of Book II of Thunder Queens has been sus- Topics pertinent to the specific FBN issues have
pended. Book I is currently out of print. been discussed. Cross-Canada holiday sales, recovery
Nancy Braus at Everyone’s Books writes that books, the Canadian Bookseller's Association, and
Tempting Fate by Laurie Alberts is an excellent novel sidelines, among others, have been presented from a
about a young woman's various adventures and hard Canadian perspective.
times in the Alaskan fishing industry. The use and But, in essence, not many of the original inquiries
abuse of alcohol is a major theme. ($6.95 pb, Pocket, 0- raised at the Bookfair have been addressed. Many of
617-66049-7.) the store workers wanted input on the evolution of
politics within the various stores, with particular at-
Movies, TV Series and Videos... tention paid to balancing feminist politics with effi-
Mary Robison is writing the screenplay for cient business practices. Others wanted to hear about
Murder at the Nightwood Bar. Hysterically funny the isolation often experienced in Canadian situa-
(and somewhat lesbian) Oranges are not the Only tions, while one or two spoke of a desire for a
Fruit is now a major BBC TV series — or at least Canadian Feminist Booksellers Association.
that’s what I read in the British edition of Unwin A glance at the Letters column of the July/August
Hyman’s catalog. What do we have to do to get it 1989 Sidelines Catalog of FBN reveals a number of
here? Does anyone there video-tape it? Is there an letters from Canadian stores. These, and several other `
underground market in copies??? The whole idea recent letters from Canadian stores to FBN, specifi-
rather blows my mind. cally present an established commitment to keeping
I suppose this is the time to own up — FBN now the Canadian contingent active in the pages of FBN.
has easy access to a VCR so, theoretically at least, we The next step for me as volunteer-editor-for-a-
can consider videos for review. Tell only the producers year is to get further direction from my volunteer-
of videos that you really like... board-of-suggesters and produce the results in the
—CS O See Canada, page 91
Volume 12 Number 3 29 September /October 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:16 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
r
IF YOU THOUGHT
OUR FIRST 18 BOOKS
THIS YEAR WERE GREAT...
WAIT 'TIL YOU SEE
THE NEXT SIX!
AFTER THE FIRE
by Jane Rule... September, 1989 .........…... $8.95
SUE SLATE, PRIVATE EYE
by Lee Lynch... September, 1989 ......…...... $8.95
ROSE PENSKI
L byI FROTZ IPeNry..G. O ct obBer,E 19L89L ..Y...... …. ….$.. 8$8..995 5
by Gertrude Stein, Ed. Rebecca Mark ............ October, 1989...cloth $14.95
THERE'S SOMETHING I'VE BEEN MEANING TO TELL YOU
Ed. Loralee MacPike — An anthology about gay and lesbian $9.95
parents coming out to their children... November, 1989...cloth $16.95
THE BEVERLY MALIBU A Kate Delafield Mystery
by Katherine V. Forrest... November, 1989...cloth $16.95
Have a wonderful Fall season!
The Naiad Press, Inc.
P.O. Box 10543 e Tallahassee, FL 32302 • e (904) 539-5965
N Press is ending 1989 with a bang!
September /October 1989 30 Volume 12 Number 3
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:16 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsNaiad Press will insert another list of bookstores Neon, 306 N. River, Ypsilanti MI 48198. We’ll run the
that carry 75% or more of their titles into their first store address as soon as they have it.
1989 mailing to their entire mailing list. If you do, in Sharon Mason is thinking about opening a
fact, stock 75% of Naiad’s titles and want all of Naiad’s gay/lesbian /feminist bookstore in Sante Fe. Send her
retail customers to know about your store, send a information at 543 Camino Bajo (Guesthouse), Sante
postcard with your store's name, address, phone
number and the statement “We carry 75% of Naiad’s
titles” to Naiad Press, PO Box 10543, Tallahassee FL
32302. Postcards must reach Naiad by the end of AAN 7
December. Send a new postcard even if you were on Si
last year’s list.
Women at Frankfurt The Women’s Shop is a small feminist bookstore
Women in Publishing (U.K.) invite all women in Palmerston, New Zealand that’s been open for a
in the international book trade to a party during while. Send information to: Women’s Shop, Square
the Frankfurt Bookfair 1989. The party will be Edge, Church St., PO Box 509, Palmerston North, New
held on Saturday, October 14, 1989 from 12:00 to Zealand.
1:45 p.m. in the conference room Concorde. You New Town Bookstore, a new bookstore specializ-
are invited to come and meet women in the book ing in feminist, lesbian, recovery, and children’s books
trade from all parts of the world. RSVP: Clare will be opening in West Palm Beach in October. Send
Baker, 23 Ashmead Road, London SE8 4DY, U.K. information to (temporary address) 3000 N. Congress
Tel: 01-691-1209. Ave. #101, W. Palm Beach FL 33401.
The Storyteller is a new bookstore in Northern
California's Russian River resort area. Suzanne Thiele,
the owner with Rob Giner, writes, “As the name sug-
gests, the focus at Storyteller will be on people speak-
ing for themselves, telling their own stories their own
way, writing their own histories, making their own
New Stores! myths and their own realities. It will be a store for the
Betsy Ashby’s new feminist bookstore Out of the 'others’ — for those of us who have been 'defined out’
Dark is open and doing well, according to all reports. of American culture. My dream is to collect in one
The store is at 530 Randolph Rd., Newport News, VA place and then, of course, to share the riches and
23601. 804-596-6220. I'm told that Newport News is a variety of our experiences — all of our colors, our
far flung suburb of D.C. sexes and sexual preferences, our languages in as
Bettina Jesinger and Maria Ruedinger are open- many bilingual editions as I can find, our ages, races,
ing a feminist bookstore in Ann Arbor. For the mo- and the different places where we live — that so effect
ment you can send them information c/o Accent how we live and the stories we tell." The store is at
31 September /October 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:16 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
16350 Third St., but please send mail to PO Box 2458, PFLAG Mom, her daughter Debbie and Debbie’s lover
Guerneville CA 95446. 707-869-3714. Diane. A Different Drummer is the longest surviving
alternative bookstore in Orange County.
Closed
Two's Company, in Tulsa, Oklahoma, has ap-
parently closed.
Changes Books Get Around, Too
Women’s Place Bookshop in Wellington, New Gynergy/Ragweed has the Canadian distribu-
Zealand closed this summer — but, like the phoenix tion rights for Sonia Johnson's Wildfire and From
— they've re-emerged in the form of a mail order Housewife to Heretic.
service and Women’s Book Club. They'll be stocking Pluto Press (U.K.) has acquired Journeyman
books, records, cassettes, and jewelry and will publish Press, publisher of Tales and More Tales I Tell My
a regular newsletter to keep their members up-to-date Mother. No news yet about what that means for U.S.
with what's being published by women. Publishers, distribution. Reading their recent flier, I was interested
please re-enter them into your mailing lists! Women’s to see that Alice Miller’s Thou Shalt Not Be Aware was
Place, the largest women’s bookshop in New Zealand their best-selling title in their June 1988-June 1989 year.
closed, not for want of business, but because the Sheila Rowbotham’s Hidden from History was also in
store's owners were too successful at too many busi- their top ten.
nesses at the same time. Deborah Hautzig’s Hey Dollface, one of the clas-
Choices Books & Music has moved to 536 sics of young adult lesbian novels is back in print
Brinkerhoff Ave., Santa Barbara CA 93101 (from 906 from Knopf ($2.95 pb, 0-394-82046-0) as is Hautzig’s
Garden St., same zip). Second Star to the Right, an excellent young adult
Carroll Leslie and Barbara Struass have just final- novel about anorexia nervosa ($2.95 pb, 0-394-
ized the sale of their bookstore, A Different Drummer. 82028-2).
It’s been purchased by three women, Lauretta, a —CS O
D Owned and operated by women
D Co-owned and run by women
Name [D Women's studies teacher and men
Business Name DD WLib rir ta er rian I D/ W Fe e m a ir ne i s te s p fe icc tia il ol ny interested in:
Address D Bookseller D Lesbian fiction
City/State/Zip D Publisher D Lesbian non-fiction
Phone: DD CP rer afio td swica ol men U D WFe om min enis ’t s st th ue do ir ey s ta in td le s politics
D Other D History
D One Year - $55. Bill us. Bookstores, Publishers, and Periodicals — D D H We oa mlth en and work
[I Special Trial Offer Is your focus primarily: D Gay men’s literature
D Feminist D Peace and anti-nuke boks
[1 I + + $ $1 63 f f oo rr C i an nt ae dr in anat i o pn oa sl t a gp eo .stage. UD D G A Gla ety ne er rn aa lt i iv ne d/ ep po el nit dic ea nl t bookstore D D C Oh thil ed rren’s books
September /October 1989 32
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:16 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
ClaireLight 6 Dog Collar Murders, Barbara Wilson, Seal Press,
Santa Rosa, CA $8.95.
June 1989 7 Each Day a New Beginning, Harper/Hazelden,
You Can't Afford the Luxury of a Negative $7.95.
Thought, Peter McWilliams & John-Roger, 8 Wildfire, Sonia Johnson, Wildfire Books, $10.95.
Prelude Press, $12.95. 9 Courage to Heal, Ellen Bass & Laura Davis,
Fatal Reunion, Claire NcNab, Naiad Press, $8.95. Harper & Row, $15.95.
Healing the Shame the Binds You, John Bradshaw, 10 The Temple of My Familiar, Alice Walker,
Health Communications, $9.95. Harcourt Brace Jovanovich, $19.95.
$D 8.o 95g . Collar Murders, Barbara Wilson, Seal Press, 11 L Pe rsb esia sn , $L 9o .v 95e . Stories, Irene Zahava, ed., Crossing
Mummy or Ramses the Damned, Anne Rice, 12 Pleasures, Robbie Sommers, Naiad Press, $8.95.
Ballantine Books, $11.95. 13 The Gate to Women’s Country, Sheri Tepper,
Places of Interest to Women, Marianne Ferrari, Bantam Books, $4.50.
ed., Ferrari Publications, $8.00. 14 Medicine Cards: The Discovery of Power
Lesbian Bedtime Stories, Terry Woodrow, Tough Through the Ways of Animals, Jamie Sams &
Dove Books, $9.95. David Carson, Bear & Company, $26.95.
8 China Through My Window, Naomi Woronov,
M.E. Sharpe, $22.50.
The Temple of My Familiar, Alice Walker,
Harcourt Brace Jovanovich, $19.95.
10 Courage to Heal, Ellen Bass & Laura Davis,
Harper & Row, $14.95.
1 Medicine Cards: The Discovery of Power
Through the Ways of Animals, Jamie Sams &
David Carson, Bear & Company, $26.95.
July, 1989
You Can't Afford the Luxury of a Negative
Thought, Peter McWilliams & John-Roger,
Prelude Press, $12.95.
Places of Interest to Women, Marianne Ferrari,
ed., Ferrari Publications, $8.00.
Bittersweet, Nevada Barr, Spinsters/ Aunt Lute,
$9.95.
Lesbian Bedtime Stories, Terry Woodrow, Tough NON FICTION
Dove Books, $9.95. 1 Women & Self-Esteem
Behind the Mask, Kim Larabee, Alyson Publica- 2 Outgrowing the Pain
tions, $6.95. 3 The Courage io Heal
September /October 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:16 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
4 The Dance of Anger Inklings
5 Women’s Experience of Sex Houston, TX
6 The Spiral Dance To Date
7 In Search of Our Mother’s Gardens
8 Drama of the Gifted Child The Courage to Heal, Bass & Davis, $15.95.
9 Making Peace With Food Curious Wine, Katherine Forrest, $8.95.
10 For Your Own Good Dance of Anger, Harriet Lerner, $8.95.
A Handmaidď’s Tale, Margaret Atwood, $4.95.
FICTION In Her Day, Rita Mae Brown, $4.50.
I Bn e l oS ve ea drch of April Raintree K Leo sk bo i’ as n K Bit et de tn im, eF r Sa tn oc ri in ee s , P ea dt .t e r Wso on od, w $ a3 r. d9 ,5 . $9.95.
Lesbian Love Stories, ed. Zahava, $9.95.
T Fea mr aB lea b Fy riends Lesbian Passion, Joann Loulan, $10.95.
The Handmaid’s Tale Lesbian Sex, Joann Loulan, $10.95.
Firebrand Men on Men 2, George Stambolian, $9.95.
Dry Your Smile P Pe lar cm esa n oe fn t I nP ta er rt en se tr s t, o B Wet ot my e nB e r 1z 9o 9n 0, , $ $1 88 .0.9 05 ..
Daughters of Copper Woman
Cať’s Eye
m o vw NA AGNone to Soldiers A e
Bold Print x A E
Winnipeg, Manitoba
, July 1989
NON FICTION
Women & Self-Esteem
Wildfire
Women’s Experience of Sex
Learning to Love Yourself
My Father’s House
Overcoming Overeating
Dance of Intimacy
Between Women
The Mystic Moon
Outgrowing the Pain New Orleans, LA
m o v wW NNNAecessary Losses November 1988 - June 1989
FICTION Women and Self-Esteem
House of the Spirits Courage to Heal
Lesbian Love Stories Great Cosmic Mother
Woman on the Edge of Time Places of Interest to Women
Six of One Heresies #5: The Great Goddess
Beloved o u BN A History of Women and New Orleans (local
The Flame Bearers women authors)
Something Shady Women’s Spirituality Book
Her Mother’s Daughter Homophobia: A Weapon of Sexism
w w Nnu NThe Kin of Ata Are Waiting For You Spiral Dance
10 Memoirs of a Spacewoman p o v v N The Chalice and the Blade ©)
September /October 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:16 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
WRITING WANTED
Black feminist writer wants photographs of Susanna J. Sturgis is looking for women’s re-
women with dreadlocks and women’s own words on covery stories — fiction, personal essays, probably a
the experience of locking their hair for an anthology. few poems, possibly journal entries and interviews —
If you are a DreadWoman or know of any, please that integrate feminism and recovery, whether that
contact Terri Jewell, 211 W. Saginaw #2, Lansing MI means working the twelve steps or taking another
48933. Will give full information upon request. path. What she doesn’t want is “professionals” telling
the rest of us how to do it. Deadline: March 1, 1990.
Literary anthology for, by and about Black Les- Send ideas, queries,and manuscripts to her at PO Box
bians seeking poetry (any form or length) and short 39, Wes t TisbZury MA Z02575. PleEase include SASE.
fiction (maximum 25 pages). Deadline April 1990.
Send unpublished submissions and queries with self-
addressed, stamped envelope to: Terri Jewell, 211 W.
Saginaw #2, Lansing MI 48933.
Crossing Press editor Irene Zahava is seeking
First person stories wanted for an anthology material for two new anthologies. One will be a collec-
about co-dependency/co-alcoholism and ACA issues tion of Lesbian Humor and will include short stories,
as experienced by lesbians. I'm looking for true-to-life narrative prose, anecdotes, stand-up comedy
adventure stories about what we've learned, how our routines, etc. The other will be about Fathers and
recovery process(es) have improved our lives, and Daughters and will include short stories and narrative
what tools and resources helped us that might help prose. Any length OK. Deadline: February 1, 1990.
other lesbians. There's virtually nothing in print about Send manuscripts and SASE to Irene Zahava, 307
co-dependency/co-alcoholism as experienced by West State Street, Ithaca NY 14850.
lesbians, and very little of the co-dependency/ re-
covery literature is lesbian specific or even lesbian- The Women’s Spirituality Book Review (first issue
inclusive. A few audio tapes exist, but most of our should be out in September) is looking for reviews of
collective experience resides in the strong oral tradi- books for the following sections: The First Step, Begin-
tion of 12-step and other recovery program meet- ning the Journey, The Journey, Fiction, Periodicals,
ings. This anthology will be an experiment in Music, and Tools. Reviews should be “from the heart”.
moving that body of wisdom and experience from The purpose isn't to make or break a book, but to find
the oral tradition onto the printed page. In keeping books which have been instrumental in the spiritual
with the various 12-step program traditions of development of other women. Work celebrating a di-
“anonymity at the level of press, radio and TV” and versity of traditions is welcome. Send SASE for writers
to facilitate speaking publicly about personal ex- guidelines to WSBR, PO Box 14658, Cleveland OH
periences, all pieces will be published on a first 44114-0658.
name basis or under pseudonyms. For further infor-
mation send SASE to Anthology, PO Box 882554, Lesbian Bedtime Stories are now sought for Volume
San Francisco CA 94188. II. We want quality and rich diversity; unpublished
September /October 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:16 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
short stories offering humor, problem solving, tween Southern and Northern Italy? Why did our
warmth or hope. Consensual editing. Lesbians of ancestors leave Italy? What does it mean to be an
Color are especially encouraged. Send stories with Italian-American lesbian? We want to hear from you
SASE or SASE for guidelines. Target date: March 31, so that the issue can truly reflect the experience of
1990. Final deadline: June 31. Tough Dove Books, Box Italian-American women, through our own language
528, Little River CA 95456. and artistic vision.” The deadline for submissions is
February 15, 1990. The issue will be guest edited by
Louise Wisechild, author of The Obsidian Mirror: Denise Leto and Janet Capone. Send submissions
An Adult Healing from Incest seeks submissions for an and/or requests for more information and guidelines
anthology of work by women artists of all media on to Italian-American Issue # 41, c/o Sinister Wisdom,
healing from incest through the use of art. The an- PO Box 3552, Berkeley CA 94703.
thology will include a selection of each artist's work
and an essay by each artist on the role of art in healing. “There are no books that speak to the specific
The deadline is December 31, 1989. Send SASE for grief of women losing their mothers. I know. I looked
contributor’s guidelines to Louise M. Wisechild, 606 for one after my mother died. This anthology will
19th E., Seattle WA 98112. allow us to find strength and solace in each others’
experiences and insights. First person narratives,
HerBooks is creating an anthology on Lesbian and short stories and essays welcome.” Deadline: Decem-
Gay Teachers and Students: The Politics of the Classroom. ber 31, 1989. Send SASE for more information, or
HerBooks is looking for narratives, essays, poetry, and contributions to Helen Vozenilek, PO Box 18, Berkeley
research studies which address the following topics: CA 94701.
coming out at work, legal and civil rights, fa-
culty/community relations, lesbian and gay studies, Laura Davis, co-author of The Courage to Heal: A
lesbian and gay literacy, unlearning homophobia cur- Guide for Women Survivors of Child Sexual Abuse, seeks
riculum, right-wing challenges, and the impact of the stories and articles on how childhood abuse affects
AIDS crisis. This volume will build on the work pregnancy, abortion, and childbirth for an anthology
published in The Lesbian in Front of the Classroom for lay readers. Submissions from adult survivors,
(HerBooks 1988). HerBooks encourages contribu- health care professionals and therapists welcome. In-
tions from primary and secondary school teachers, terviews possible. Submit with SASE by January 1990.
as well as students, parents, administrators, coun- For further information write Anthology, PO Box
selors, and aides. The need for many teachers to 460190, San Francisco CA 94146.
remain anonymous will be respected. The an- ZALAS
thology will also contain an extensive resource bib-
liography on lesbian and gay teachers and students,
so send suggestions for this section as well. Dead-
line: December 15, 1989. Send contributions (with Essays, diary entries, short stories and poetry
SASE) or SASE for more details to HerBooks, PO wanted for The Hormonal Fix: Feminist Responses to
Box 7467, Santa Cruz CA 95601. Hormonal Replacement Therapy, An International An-
thology. “I would like to hear from feminists who are
Sinister Wisdom, a journal for the lesbian imagina- taking HRT as well as from others who decided
tion in the arts and politics, is currently soliciting against its use. What influenced your decision? To
manuscripts and art work from all women of Italian what extent is fear of ageing and loss of sexuality
descent with a strong emphasis on work by Italian- implicated? Is this different for heterosexual and
American lesbians. “Italian-American women: how lesbian women? What, if anything, were you told
do we see ourselves? What is our ethnic and cultural about side effects? Critical accounts of HRT by fem-
identity? How have we been stereotyped by the inist gynecologists, therapists, infertility specialists
media? By our own communities? What does family and health workers also welcome. All contributions
mean to us? What are the historical differences be- should be written in a way that makes them acces-
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:16 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
sible to a broad range of international women read-
ers.” Deadline: December 15,1989. Send two copiesof
all articles to Dr. Renate D. Klein, School of Humani- WRITING
ties, Deakin University, Geelong, Victoria 3217,
Australia.
FOR
Oxford University will launch a new journal:
Women: A Cultural Review in 1990 which will appear
three times a year. Women will examine the fundamen- RECOVERY
tal importance of sexual difference in cultural forma-
tions and will be concerned with all forms of theatre, Affirm the recovery
poetry, novel, criticism, history, philosophy, educa- p tor o c joe uss r n w ali t h w r it th inis g g —uide
tion, law, anthropology, psychoanalysis, psychology, complete with over 100 exercises. For anyone
the sciences, music, sculpture, painting, dance, film, writing for personal growth or keeping journals
video, record production, television, journalism, etc. in Twelve-Step programs.
Contributions will be welcomed from all with an in- Order No. 5079 $88.95
terest in gender, in particular women in the arts, pro- TO ORDER, CALL TOLL FREE
fessional and academic life. Style sheet for authors 1-800-328-9000
available on request. Send papers, requests for further (In MN, 1-800-257-0070)
information, and requests for a free sample copy of the
first issue to Women: A Cultural Review, c/o Dept. of HAZELDEN’
English, Birkbeck College, Malet Street, London
WC1E 7HX.
Manuscripts are being solicited for Tribe, a new
Sidewalk Revolution Press is still collecting work literary journal featuring fiction, poetry, and essays by,
for their forthcoming collection of lesbian erotica. Up- for, and about gay men. Authors submitting manu-
date: The guidelines have been expanded to include scripts are asked to include a self-addressed, stamped
previously published work. SASE for further informa- envelope. Short, medium-size, and long pieces are wel-
tion. Write to Jan Hardy, PO Box 9062, Pittsburgh PA come. Send to Tribe, c/o Columbia Publishing Company,
15224. 234 East 25th St., Baltimore MD 21218. 301-366-7070.
Tribe's editorial review board includes David
Banned Books is interested in publishing a Groff, an editor at Crown Publishers and a co-founder
Spanish-language edition of coming-out letters, let- of the Publishing Triangle; author John Preston; and
ters written by gay people to their parents and friends George Stambolian, editor of Men on Men. The journal
telling them that they are gay. “If you are interested in will be published quarterly by Columbia Publishing
writing such a letter (it doesn't matter if you have Company and will be distributed nationally. The in-
written it or if you intend to send it) send your letter house staff will be Bernard Rabb (Editor), Olin James
to Cartas, c/o Banned Books, #292, PO Box 33280, Nettles (Associate Editor), Donald G. DeCarlo (Pro-
Austin TX 78764 for possible inclusion in the book. If duction Associate and Advertising Manager), and
you prefer, you can write the letter in English and Janet Goldstein (Distribution Coordinator).
we'll translate it.”
Still Waters Press announces its Winter Chap-
The first title planned for Knights Press non-fic- book Competition. Prize includes publication, 25 co-
tion series will profile gay vets from all branches of the pies, review distribution and a professional publicity
service. Vets who wish to participate should write package. Deadline November 30. Send 16-24 manu-
Knights Press for a pre-interview questionnaire. En- script pages (including brief bio and credits, if any),
close a SASE. Knights Press, PO Box 454, Pound Ridge SASE and $10.00 reading fee to Still Waters Press, 112
NY 10576. W. Duerer St., Galloway NJ 08201. O
Volume 12 Number 3 37 September /October 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:16 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
CWMue ord mainc edi nne er Da soW,c toaomnrde sn, BACK TO PRESS
MEDICINE WOMEN, AND OTHER GOOD NEWS
CURANDERAS,
AND WOMEN
DOCTORS The Forbidden Stitch (Calyx) has gone into a sec-
By Bobette Perrone, ond printing of 5000 for a total of 10,300 copies in
H. Henrietta Stockel, print.
and Victoria Krueger Naiad Press reports that two Katherine V. Forrest
“A major contribution to titles have gone back to press. Daughters of a Coral
the fields of women’s studies, oral history tD ha ew n t o tw ae l n t c o pb ia ec sk i nt o p p rir ne tss t f oo r 4 0 a ,0 0t 0h . i r Cd u rp ior uin s t i Wng i n eb r i in s g bin eg ing
research, history of medicine and health- retypeset and will go back to press for its sixth printing
seeking behavior, and the sociology of for a total of 75,000 copies in print.
knowledge.” — Sue-Ellen Jacobs. “In-
s at nea d a o nf t hd ris ose pc oti ln og g if ce am l a le m h icea rle or ss c ou pnd ee ,r the son (W W ili dld ff irir ee : B oIg on ki st ) in rg e c et ih ve e d S h ae / “V So talu rt ri eo dn ib ny B S oo on ki la is t J ”ohn-
authors of this rewarding survey ap- medal for its outstanding contribution to literature.
proach traditional medicine as a living BC oo okn lig str .atulations to Wildfire Books and hooray for
entity with its own internal laws.” —Pub-
lishers Weekly. The Color of Light: Meditations for All of Us Living
$22.95 with AIDS published by Hazelden Educational Ma-
terials, received the 1989 Benjamin Franklin award for
excellence in independent book publishing in the self-
WOMEN IN PREHISTORY h Ae sl sp o/ cih ae ta il ot nh . category from the Publishers Marketing
By Margaret Ehrenberg Hot Wire's 1989 Reader's Choice Award for
Volume 4 in the Oklahoma Series in
Classical Culture organization went to Ladyslipper for maintaining the
most comprehensive catalog of recordings, videos,
In this thought-provoking look at the publications, and other resources by women.
lives of women and their social status, In January, Hot Wire asked their readers to nomi-
Ehrenberg argues that the true contri- nate women who have made outstanding contribu-
bution of women was much greater than tions to the women’s music and culture network. In
has been acknowledged to date. the May issue, Hot Wire printed the names and accom-
$29.95 plishments of every nominee submitted by readers
and asked readers to write in their votes. Readers were
encouraged to make selections based completely on
Write for FREE catalog. the basis of their personal favorites. Most of Hot Wire's
1S co) Aei erele) C aea > NANY l p 7,a lR ise ta id ne gr s t hC eh o tic oe p A fw iva er d vs o tg eo g t eo t t em rsu s i ic ni a n ss o, m eb u t o f w te h'r ee more
University of print-oriented categories:
Fiction: The Color Purple; Rubyfruit Jungle; Mists of
Oklahoma Press >< Avalon; Beloved; Patience & Sarah/Curious Wine.
Non-Fiction: Lesbian Ethics; Lesbian Sex; For the
Dept. MAD5-1005 Asp Ave-Norman, OK 73019-0445
Add $1.50 post/hand. We accept: Visa/MC /checks. Record; Gaia's Guide; A Restricted Country.
See Back to Press, page 91
September /October 1989 Volume 12 Number 3
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:16 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
EASE
£ L
By Mary Lowry The Mother Shadow by Melodie Johnson Howe,
Viking, $16.95 cl, 670-82602-2. In California, Maggie
Like a joke that pops up all over the country Hill, having produced a critically acclaimed but finan-
almost simultaneously, the notion of having two cially unrewarding novel, works as a temp. Her em-
women detectives working as a team seems to have ployer writes a new codicil to his will then kills
struck women writers lately. Most P.I.’s and amateurs himself. She teams up with Claire Conrad, P.I., who is
have their sources (friends in the police, newspaper
reporters, doctors, or another, male, detective) but
teams are rare as even our most feminist detectives
function as loners. The notable exception is police „© L
procedurals where team work is both important to the
plot and to the women’s career. ‘Breaking into’ the
police network is as important to police women as a a snazzy and dramatic dresser — white one day and
robbery is to a penniless burglar. Three recent novels black the next. Conrad seems to want to have a bio-
advertise women partners by newcomers to the mys- grapher as much as she wants a partner. She already
tery field. Women as partners in solving crimes ap- has a butler cum bodyguard but wants a Watson to her
peals to me as a format; it is interesting to note how Holmes, an Archie Goodwin to her Nero Wolfe and a
the partners relate to each other in the work context. Boswell to her Johnson. Maggie isn’t so sure that’s the
The Shadow Dance by Agnes Bushell (Crossing way to go since Boswell et al aren't the famous ones.
Press, $8.95 pb, 89594-346-8) was the first I read. Al- Maggie is unsurprisingly reluctant to commit herself
though the team of Wilson and Wilder work together to writing Claire Conrads life. Faced with the bore-
on minor cases during the novel, the major case (in- dom of temporary work and the certainty that the real
truth is going to be subverted by the Media people,
Maggie decides to throw her lot in with Claire. It’s an
unequal relationship with Maggie, the narrator, trying
E to assert her individuality in the face of Claire's large
ego. This tension promises to make the series interesting.
The Big Killing, Annette Meyers, Bantam, $16.95
volving Russian spies, murder on stage at the ballet c], 553-05324-8. This is my least favorite of the three.
company, and a feminist group in Maine) is handled With a Wall Street environment we are guaranteed a
by Wilder alone. Although she muses that she would lot of big time gambling and a goodly amount of
like to discuss the case with Wilson, who is inexpli- sleeze. The team of Smith and Wetzon (yeah, I know,
cably off skiing, she essentially handles the case alone. but I’m not making it up) are known as head hunters,
Their shared past includes having been lovers and that is, they sorta steal top brokers and other high
while it seems to be ex-lovers now, that appears to be powered types and shuffle them from one company
a factor in their plans for continuing their partnership. to another. In the course of these shenanigans, Leslie
Equal but separate cases? Wetzon finds herself on a date with one broker who
39 September /October 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:16 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
has the bad taste to get killed in a phone booth while Good News Department: Donato and Daughter
she’s waiting for him to return to their table in the bar. by Jack Early, NAL, $4.95 pb. Take my word for it, Jack
During the course of the murder investigation Wetzon Early is a woman and this is a good one. Coming in
finds she knows little about her partner Smith and is October.
concerned about Smith’s questionable actions and
possible involvement in the murder. Although they MORE FORTHCOMING
are partners, Xenia Smith and Leslie Wetzon don’t September
seem to trust each other, communicate very well, nor Black Moon by Alison Drake (author of Tango
have the same values. Hardly a working partnership. Key), Ballantine, $3.95 pb.
It includes more background about the financial Down the Garden Path by Dorothy Cannel,
world than I really wanted but confirmed my belief Bantam, $3.95 pb.
that Wall Street is a giant crap shoot. Silence in Hanover Close by Anne Perry,
Fawcett, $3.50 pb. Victorian murder series.
o L October
There Hangs the Knife by Marcia Muller, World-
O © wide, $3.50 pb. One of the Joanna Stark art world
murders. She also writes the Sharon McCone mysteries.
November
All in all, there may be a movement towards Mystery Lovers Book of Quotations by Jane
finding ways to work together without a dominant Horning, Mysterious Press, $12.95 pb, 8929-6948-2.
partner. And without the romantic involvement so This has more men quoted than women but it’s fun if
popular in the mystery world. Next a Collective of you like quotation books. As with any reference book,
Sleuths? it is bound to miss the best ones you've found yourself. O
ISBN 0-921299-10-9
September /October 1989 40
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:16 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
F
<S
À
My last column was written — or, more accu- ACE
rately, compiled — immediately after returning from The Sarsen Witch, by Eileen Kernaghan, $3.50.
ABA. It was my first convention since 1984, when I Well reviewed in Thrust, this is set at the time of the
was still a bookseller, and I had a ball, meeting many beginning of Stonehenge and features the witch Naeri,
feminist booksellers and publishers either for the first a “geomancer, able to detect and use mysterious forces
time or for the first time in years. My FBN booth within the earth.”
button, “So Many Books, So Little Time,” is per- Witch of Rhostshyl, by J.F. Rivkin, $3.50. The
manently ensconced on the sun visor of my truck. third in the Silverglass series didn’t grab me as hard as
the first, mostly because Corson the (female) merce-
nary and Nyctasia the noble sorceress spend so much
time apart. But they and their supporting cast are
A marvelous characters, and this is a good read.
BANTAM/SPECTRA
I attended the Lambda Literary Awards banquet Shaper’s Legacy, by Sheila Finch, $3.95. Second
as a presenter and a judge for the lesbian mystery/sf volume of The Shaper Exile trilogy, which deals with
category. What a trip. Nevertheless, the impression three races, all products of genetic engineering, and
remains that gay (male) literature and lesbian litera- their attempts to reach accommodation with each
ture are very uneasily allied; I couldn't imagine, for other. Shaping the Dawn (Vol. 3) is due in December.
instance, what the “small press awards” (one lesbian,
one gay) were about until I realized how many of the BANTAM/STARFIRE
gay books were from mainstream publishers (and The Golden Thread, by Suzy McKee Charnas,
how few of ours were). $13.95 cl. Third and last of young Val Marsh’s adven-
At the same time I was pleased to be asked to tures with magic (YA).
judge, then to present an award, pleased to see my
name in a nicely produced program and to have my DAW BOOKS
few minutes on the podium. Recognition is especially A Heroine of the World, by Tanith Lee, $4.50. Set
enspiriting when material compensation is rare. in an alternate earth where the monotheistic religions
Anyway, enough. We seem to bein a summer lull, never developed, and some of the pagan gods still
so what follows is mostly catching up on the backlist. take an active interest in human affairs. Locus reviewer
And a favor requested from those of you who Faren Miller praised the first half — exploring “the
deal in imported books: I'm looking for a copy of labyrinths of humanity and inhumanity with Aara as
Rachel Pollack’s Unquenchable Fire, (Century) the unblinking young witness” — and criticized the
briefly mentioned in my last column. If you have a second, in which heroine meets hero and hero
copy in stock or can order it for me, would you drop promptly runs away with the story: “By the end of the
me a card letting me know how much? The address is book one longs to give her a good shaking and say,
Box 39, West Tisbury, Mass. 02575. Many thanks! ‘Hey, get a life!”
41 September /October 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:16 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Daughter of the Lion, by Jennifer Roberson, woefully underdeveloped novel with a promising
$3.95. Sixth in the Chronicles of the Cheysuli, this is the premise or two: the cult that grows up around the light
first I've read. Roberson’s prose is satisfyingly rich and caused by clicking stones could both satirize and ex-
well suited to fantasy. The narrator is Keely, whose plore the worst of new age fads, not to mention the not
uniquely versatile shapechanging powers don’t ex- uncommon penchant (even among feminists!) for
empt her from a woman’s usual obligations. The catch easy answers and sorting people into ins and outs. But
here is that marriages are arranged in accordance with the decades covered by the novel are almost totally
an ancient prophecy which must be fulfilled if peace undifferentiated, and could an international mass
is to come to the warring races of Homana. The deck movement really grow up around simply meeting,
is stacked, but the central conflict between social ob- clicking stones, and causing light?
ligation and individual preference isn't uncommon
among us either.
Delan the Mislaid, by Laurie J. Marks, $3.95.
Owing to skepticism about publisher’s blurbs, I mis-
laid this one until the author called it to my attention.
It’s a readable variation on the “ugly duckling” theme NAL/SIGNET
about an androgyne Aeyrie raised among strangers Mermaid’s Song, by Alida Van Gores, $4.50.
before its metamorphosis. A background theme is the Genre fantasy with a twist that makes it special, says
interdependence and mutual suspicion of several Locus reviewer Carolyn Cushman. The twist is the
races sharing one territory. setting, a vividly evoked undersea world, and the hero
Spells of Wonder, ed. by Marion Zimmer Brad- is a young “merramaid” with the talents, but not the
ley, $3.95. One can count on two things from MZB’s experience, to restore Balance to the seas.
anthologies: good stories and lots of women writers.
Sword-Maker, by Jennifer Roberson, $4.95. Fol- TOR
lows Sword-Dancer and Sword-Singer but the pub- Tales by Moonlight II, ed. by Jessica Amanda
lisher’s blurb suggests that it’s mostly about Tiger, the Salmonson, $3.95. Only about one third of these horror
male half of the duo. October. tales are by women, Marion Zimmer Bradley, Jody
Scott, and Jayge Carr among them. Editor Salmonson
RA contributes an introductory overview of the field and
a list of small press horror magazines; veteran editor
Peggy Nadramia offers a concise guide to how to start
a shoestring fanzine.
FEMINIST PRESS Tales of the Witch World 2, ed. by Andre Norton,
What Did Miss Darrington See? ed. by Jessica $3.95. Paperback reprint of “shared-world” an-
Amanda Salmonson, $10.95 pb. I postponed reading thology; most stories are by women, including Shari-
this “anthology of feminist supernatural fiction” be- ann Lewitt, Sandra Miesel, Diana Paxson, and
cause (a) isn't supernatural synonymous with horror Jacqueline Lichtenberg.
(yuck), and (b) goddess save me from tangled Vic-
torian prose. Not to worry. I'm almost through (saving WARNER
Joanna Russ for last) and thoroughly recommend it. Rimrunners, by C.J. Cherryh, $19.95 cl. Bet
The stories are poignant, psychologically astute, and Yeager is a persuasive down-and-out spacer stuck on
eerie rather than gross, and the prose, both nineteenth a station that both time and space forgot before she
and twentieth century, is a pleasure. Further good ships out on her last hope, a bounty hunter with an
news is that collections by several of these nearly assortment of incorrigible nasties and potential
forgotten women writers are forthcoming. friends. Cherryh follows her usual pattern here: in-
NAIAD v de en vet li on pg m ein nt te r te os t i tn hg e c th ha rr ia lc l t e or fs pt oh le in ti c as la c r inif ti rc ii gn ug e t ah ne dir mil-
Clicking Stones, by Nancy Tyler Glenn, $8.95. A itary conflict. Wait for the paperback. O
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:16 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
in Feminist
Bookstores
By Betsy Nuse Ragweed Press (C$9.95 pb, 0-921556-03-9, in Canada
from University of Toronto, in U.S. from Inland, in
Not-to-be-missed new titles from poets who U.K. from Turnaround). Ragweed/Gynergy is also
qualified as bestsellers in FBN’s poetry survey: A publishing four chapbooks for enthusiasts of “new
Doorin the Hive (New Directions, C$11.95 pb, 0-8112- writing:” Walking Inside Circles by Angela Hryniuk
1119-3, in Canada from Penguin) will be Denise Lever- (a memoir of recovery from sexual abuse — 0-921881-
tov’s new book this winter, and from Firebrand two 09-6), Bodies of Knowledge: Fear by Nancy Chater
important second books, Humid Pitch: Narrative (0-921881-08-8), Insister by Ann Decter (0-921881- 11-
Poetry by Cheryl Clarke (US$8.95 pb, $18.95 c|, 0- 8), and Hotel Destiné by Patricia Seaman (0-921881-
932379-66-4 pb, 0-932379-67-2 cl) and Crime Against 10-X) at C$9.95 pb each.
Nature by Minnie Bruce Pratt (US$8.95 pb, $18.95 cl, And speaking of that best-selling category, the
0-932379-72-9 pb, 0-932379-73-7 cl). Minnie Bruce's erotic, Carroll and Graf has announced an anthology
book, describing her relationship with her sons, her of poetry and prose Touching Fire: Erotic Writings by
coming out and loss of custody, won the prestigious Women edited by Louise Thornton, Jan Sturtevant
1989 Lamont Poetry Prize awarded by the Academy and Amber Sumrall (C$24.95 cl, 88184-527-2, in
of American Poets for the best second book of poems Canada from Bookcentre). Naiad is reissuing Ger-
in the entire U.S.A.! trude Stein’s Lifting Belly (US$8.95 pb, 0-941483-51-
7). This lesbian erotic but heavily-encoded poem has
been introduced and edited by Rebecca Mark, a Stein
scholar who brought her project to Naiad so it would
enjoy a wide lesbian audience. A nice companion to
shelve with Judy Grahn’s anthology-with-essays
Really Reading Gertrude Stein (Crossing, C$14.50
pb, 89594-380-8, in Canada from Bookcentre).
Keep a weather-eye peeled for Indian Singing in
20th Century America, described as a “visionary
quest” for the “spiritual path that sustains individu-
als” by Onondaga Mic Mac poet Gail Tremblay
(Calyx, US$9.00 pb, 0-934971-13-7, BP and IN, in
Canada from DEC).
l ri eg ae dn ec r eB s, l a wc ak r ht o A a em n nde j or yi sc o a cn pia o l e p t o sce o t n l is kR c eii e t n a Jc ueD . n o ev I n e Jt r ow o rdr dui at c ne e s o hw re i r t C h ot l o li en et nel- lesbia nC l a Ji es a na n d K a dC mlo oc nk . i As n a a b tto ro ak c t io vf e , l o sv te a p lp eo -bem ous n dby Israeli
McElroy: Grace Notes (Norton, C$22.95 cl, 0-393- chapbook illustrated with the author’s own pen and
02719-8, in Canada from Penguin). ink drawings, the poems describe changes in Kad-
The manuscript of Black Canadian poet Marlene mon’s long-term relationship over time and through
Nourbese Philip's She Tries Her Tongue won the geographical separation. This is the fifth book pub-
prestigious Casa de las Americas Prize in 1988 for lished by Crones’ Own, a feminist publishing house
poetry in English. It will be published this fall by specializing in books by midlife and older women
43 September /October 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:16 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
(Crones’ Own Press, US$4.75 pb, 0-9615216-4-3.
Terms: 40% for 4 or more, returns OK, 310 Driver
Street, Durham, N.C. 27703).
Graywolf has published a bilingual collection of
poems by a modern Mexican feminist writer: The
VOICES IN THE WATERFALL tS re ale nc st le ad ti o nPo s e m bys o Mf a gR do as a (r ai .o k . aC . a s Mte el gla ) n o Bs o. g iT nh e ( a uE tn hg ol ris h of
by Beth Cuthand The Women Troubadours and translator of Isabel Al-
lende’s House of the Spirits) capture a haunting and
Beth Cuthand is a Cree writer who now lives in unlikely blend of dramatic imagery and controlled
Saskatchewan. From the depths of a very personal tone which characterizes the poems (Graywolf,
spirituality to a very public celebration of her culture US$9.50 pb, 1-55597-112-1, BF, IN).
and heritage, Voices in the Waterfall explores how to live In her first solo book Air Pocket Kimiko Hahn
in a world which is no longer sensitive to nature and
ritual, in this first collection of poetry. (one of the authors of the Ikon anthology We Stand Our
64 pp: $7.95: ISBN 0-920999-16-6 wGr eao vu en sd : h eT rh r Jee a p aW neo sm e e n b, a c kT gh re oir u n V d i s ii non to, T a h e wir id eP o se ct or py e) of
subjects. The final long poem in the book, “Resistance:
Available from Inland a Poem on Ikat Cloth,” which describes women in
cultures all over the planet resist-dying textiles as
persistently as they resist patriarchial oppression, is
DIZARAE particularly skillful and moving (Hanging Loose, US$
8.00 pb, 0- 914610-51-1, IN).
Another important first book is Native American
poet Nia Francisco's Blue Horses for Navajo Women
which describes her land and people using the sym-
bols of traditional sacred songs. The poems are in-
fused with female spirit and strength (Greenfield
vA Review, US$9.95, 0-92678-72-0, 2 Middle Grove Road,
fwe Greenfield Center, N.Y. 12833).
oul a The style of Knocking on the Earth by Ellery
Akers is intellectual, but Akers describes the world
beautifully, and through her descriptions conveys the
tuhian pod" K profound consolation nature offers when we are faced
with loneliness or death. An easily-sampled section of
“...a fine affirmation of lesbian the book, “Letters to Anna, 1846-54,” is an imaginary
sequence of letters written by a pioneer women to her
identity and sexuality.” sister back east in Boston (Wesleyan, US$8.95 pb, 0-
—carol anne douglas, 8195-1162-5, in Canada from Scholarly).
off our backs Selected Poems 1963-1983 offers North Ameri-
ISBN 0-961-74060-4 can readers an introduction to the poetry of Marjorie
Pap e Ar, v a i$ l3 a. b9 l5 e to bookstores from Inland Pizer. Her poems describe nature and human emo-
tions frankly and compassionately; her subjects range
from the intensely personal to global issues like
Sidewalk Revolution Preu human justice and preservation of the natural en-
PO. Box 9062 e Pittsbu r(g4h,1 P2A) 15 232461-8927 vironment. In March 1988 May Sarton wrote of her
work, “I read so many poems these days and am often
September /October 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:16 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
baffled by all the brilliance, the highly conscious use Home. Deep. Blue. by Jean Valentine offers book-
of language and I wonder whereis the authentic poet? sellers and readers new poems as well as selections
... How rare the singular simplicity and depth of Mar- from her previous four books all in one volume. Valen-
jorie Pizer’s poems has become!” A cycle of poems tine’s imagery has the vivid emotional impact and
entitled “Dying of Cancer” is the centerpiece of Pizer’s semaphoric quality of dreams. Following her lan-
most recent volume Equinox (Aust$6.00 pb, 0-949625- guage can be like watching particle tracks — challeng-
02-7). Anne Perry, the subject of the sequence and the ing but rewarding (Alice James, US$9.95 pb,
person to whom the book is dedicated, was Pizer’s 0-914086-81-2, Dist. Baker & Taylor, Small Press, IN)!
“dear friend and partner” of over 20 years in psycho- The Blue Scar and Other Poems by Alexandra
therapy, writing and publishing. Also available from Grilikhes contains some of the most remarkably well-
Pinchgut is Parry and Pizer’s collaborative book, crafted “free verse” I have seen in a long time. Though
Below the Surface: Reflections on Life and Living her meanings are sometimes elusive, Grilikhes’ iconic
(Aust$6.00 pb, 0-9598913-9-0) a collection of observa- images and moments of epiphany are memorable
tions and affirmations which came out of their psychi- (Folder Editions, US$6.95, 0-913-152-52-50-17, 4343
atric practice and should make an excellent addition Manayunk Avenue, Philadelphia, Pa. 19128).
to daily meditation books in the recovery section Unfinished Painting by Mary Jo Salter includes
(Pinchgut Press, Aust$12.00 pb, 0-949625-01-9, terms: poems to Emily Dickinson and the poet's own
40%, payment in US$ by bank draft through Com- daughter Emily, elegies for a young Japanese friend
monwealth Bank, Sydney, no returns, 6 Oaks Avenue, who unexpectedly killed herself and the poet's
Cremorne, Sydney, Australia, 2090). mother who painted the unfinished portrait described
in the title poem. Salter’s is artful, formal writing at its
I recommend the following titles for your more best. This book won the 1988 Lamont Prize (Knopf,
serious poetry clientele. US$9.95 pb, 0-679-72298-X, in Canada from Random). O
v spoken
V children’s / folk
/ reggae v holiday
/ blues v classical
international / & more
S plus many other outstanding lines such as Invincible,
Hearts of Space, Sound Rx (Steven Halpern), Narada
...and hundreds and hundreds more...
Dealer Pricelist and Full Annotated Catalog Available
Ladyslipper • PO Box 3124 • Durham NC 27715 • 800-634-6044 • Fax:919-682-5601
September /October 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:16 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
TOWARD A FEMINIST BEYOND FEMINIST THE MIND HAS
THEORY OF THE STATE AESTHETICS NO SEX?
Catharine A. MacKinnon Feminist Literature and ` Women in the Origins of
This important work presents Social Change ` Modern Science
Catharine MacKinnon's powerful Rita Felski ' Londa Schiebinger
analysis of politics, sexuality, and “This is a remarkably assured,
the law from the perspective of
women. The result is an informed The work also combines an
and compelling critique of sex
vin ise iq ou na l i ot fy aa n dd i r a e c tt ir oa nn s f fo or rm sa ot civ iae l lucidity that is rare.” —Terry Eagleton
change.
FIGURES OF ILL
REPUTE
Representing Prostitution in
Nineteenth-Century France
“Looking at the female and male | “Schiebinger'’s book is the most
halves of the world equally ` learned and sustained historical
transforms everything—and [this ` account of the role of science in
book] makes that clear with the creation of gender that exists.
scholarship, courage and wit. By It is a work of wide ranging and
exposing and correcting the | scrupulous scholarship that brings
patriarchal values underlying na- to light lives which would otherwise
tionalism and justice, Catharine ` remain forgotten.”
MacKinnon causes an earthquake —Thomas W. Laqueur
of thinking that rearranges every $29.50 cloth
part of our intellectual landscape. |
This book is a ‘must read.”
—Gloria Steinem
$25.00 cloth
September /October 1989 46 Volume 12 Number 3
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.:ffff:ffff:ffff:ffff on Thu, 01 Jan 1976 12:34:56 UTC
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
JUSTICE AND GENDER PERSUASIONS OF THE ABORTION AND
Deborah L. Rhode WITCH'S CRAFT DIVORCE IN
P Ritual Magic in WESTERN LAW
Contemporary England Mary Ann Glendon
T.M. Luhrmann
"A groundbreaking study that
nimbly interweaves Ms. Luhrmann's =
own magical adventures with
anthropological shoptalk, offering a
systematic classification and e
Deborah Rhode shows the way cul- analysis of modern magic, as well
tural perceptions of gender as judicious observations on the “This] is the only illuminating work
influence and in turn are influenced nature of belief." —Philip Zaleski, that I have ever read on abortion.
by legal constructions and what New York Times Book Review It is both a legal and philosophical
this complicated interaction implies $25.00 cloth tour de force, and | should think it
will become the preeminent
ity—of using law as a tool for theoretical work on the subject in
social change. SEXUAL SCIENCE American legal literature."
$ T3 H9.5 E0 Pcl Sot Yh CHOLOGY OF T Wh oe m aV nic ht oo or dian Construction of —T h Se u p rH eo mno er a Cb ole u r tR i c oh fa r Ad p pN ee ae lsly,
TODAY’S WOMAN Cynthia Eagle Russett " aT boh ris t i ob no o ak n ds h do iu vl od r cc eh a ln awge at rh ee way
New Psychoanalytic Visions 3 N discussed in the United States."
Edited by Toni Bernay and —Commonweal
Dorothy W. Cantor $10.95 paper
“This excellent collection of ca Z
innovative articles—largely by
women analysts—reflects a more
vco isn it oe nm p ofor a wry om p ensy ..c .Ah so a n ta hl iy st i pc rovoca- cS ae rx eu fa ul l lS yc i e an s c e a s ph ao ru tl id cu lb are l y s t u vd isi ie bd le in- Harvard
tive book suggests, for psychoa- stance of a systematic problem. lt University
en xa aly ms ii ns a tt io o n b e o f r e tl hev eoan ret t ict ao ld a py e r a s p ef cr -esh i hs o wim sp uo cr ht a n dt i s tt oh ra tt i o nw se a u ren d per es rt pa en td u- Press
tives must take —pl Dac iae n.” e Kovacs, a Nt ee wd. " Y — orJ ka n Te it m eH so r Bo ow oi ktz R M evu ir er way, 7 C9 a mGar bd ren i d S gtr ee ,e t MA 02138
$12.95 paper Los Angeles Times $25.00 cloth (617) 495-2480
Volume 12 Number 3 47 September /October 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:16 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
NEWSAGE PRESS
FALL RELEASES
Exposures, Women & Their Art
By Betty Ann Brown & Arlene Raven
Photographs by Kenna Love
50 Artists Profiles & Portraits in Full Color, 10 x 10
Softcover $29.95, ISBN 0-939165-11-2 **Clothbound $39.95, ISBN 0-939165-10-4
An American sampler of contemporary women artists with the text exploring
the personal and artistic lives of these women, and the photographs
capturing the spirit of the artists in relationship to their work. An insightful
and beautiful book that gives contemporary women artists the recognition
they deserve.
* To be featured in November 1989 “Lear’s” magazine. *
Common Heroes, Facing a Life Threatening Illness
By Eric Blau, M.D.
Endorsed by The National Hospice Organization and Dr. Elisabeth Kubler-Ross
96 pages, 36 interviews with photos, 7 x 10
$15.95 Softcover, ISBN 0-939165-12-0
“Common Heroes is an opportunity to explore with everyday people the pain, sorrow, anger
and even the humor when death touches us through those we love. This is an important book
and one that should be remembered and talked about because it makes the reader see death
as part of life.” National Hospice Organization
Great Holiday Gift Books
S A Portrait of American Mothers & Daughters
By Raisa Fastman
128 pp. 84 Photos and Text, 10 x 10
Softcover $22.95, ISBN 0-939165-04-X
‘ ‘...a moving but unsentimental statement about this primary bond.” Booklist, ALA
Women & Work, Photographs and Personal Writings
By Maureen R. Michelson & Michael Dressler
180 pp. 85 profiles and 100 photos, 81⁄2 x 11
Softcover $22.95, ISBN 0-939165-01-5
“. ..a refreshing alternative to the current flood of literature advising female
workers.” Booklist, ALA
Distributors: Ingram, Baker & Taylor, Bookpeople, Inland Books
Order directly from
NEWSAGE PRESS
P.O. Box 41029 • Pasadena, CA 91114 ° (818) 795-0266
September/October 1989 48 Volume 12 Number 3
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:16 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
By Tee Corinne take root and cling to the mind. University of New
Mexico Press, $19.95 pb, 0-8263-1115-6, $39.95 c|], 0-
The University of New Mexico Press is develop- 8263-1114-8 .
ing a terrific line of books relating to women in the Also available is Georgia O'Keeffe, an exhibition
arts. The most recent is Marion Post Wolcott, A Pho- catalog with very beautiful full color illustrations and
tographic Journey by F. Jack Hurley. Wolcott (b. 1910) text in both Japanese and English. Gerald Peters Gal-
is best known through work she did for the Farm lery, dist. by the University of New Mexico Press,
Security Administration (FSA) during the depression, $27.50, no ISBN.
photographing the lives and environments of the poor Portraits of Choreographers by Peggy Jarrell
in the U.S. south. The book includes a thoughtful Kaplan is a remarkable series of photographs accom-
discussion of how an intelligent young woman, inter- panied by quotes from the choreographers: women,
ested in childhood education, became transformed men, black, white, and asian. It is introduced by a
into an artist focused on social activism. These are series of loosely related essays. Text is in both French
gentle, deeply moving, sometimes ironic images that and English. Ronald Feldman Fine Arts/(Éditions
Bougé), dist. by the University of New Mexico Press,
$19.95 pb, 2-906-95304-0.
Just published is Architecture, A Place For
Women, ed. by Ellen Perry Berkeley and Matilda
McQuaid. It contains a wide range of highly readable
essays with a strongly feminist approach. Section
titles include: Researching the Past, Recounting Per-
sonal Involvement, Suggesting Various Possibilities,
and Envisioning Future Roles. Smithsonian Institu-
tion Press, $19.95 pb, 0-87474-231-5.
Artemisia by Anna Banti is a fascinating and
difficult to categorize novel—originally published in
Italian—that is a blend of biography (of the artist
Artemisia Gentileschi (1590-1642), autobiography,
and historical fiction: sophisticated, complex and
compelling. University of Nebraska Press, $21 cl, 0-
8032-1203-8.
María: The Potter of San Ildefonso is a fictional-
ized biography—first published in 1948—of Pueblo
potter María Montoya Martínez (?-1980) by ethnolo-
gist Alice Marriott. Library Journal is quoted as saying
that it is a “curiously arresting, simply told story of (a)
woman who makes pottery but molds lives as well as
49 September /October 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:16 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
clay.” The University of Oklahoma Press, $11.95 pb, Virginia Woolf looking pensive; Vita Sackville-West at
0-8061-2048-7. her writing table on which sits a photo of Woolf;
SAGE, A Scholarly Journal on Black Women, Colette propped up in bed, writing; and almost all the
Vol. IV, No. 1, a special issue devoted to artist and definitive images of Sylvia Beach and Adrienne Mon-
artisans, includes historical studies and profiles of nier, Simone de Beauvoir, Victoria Ocampo, Mary
contemporary women. It’s an excellent resource. McCarthy, and others. There are a lot of famous men
SAGE, POB 42741, Atlanta, GA 30311, $8, 0741-8639. in this book but the women, especially the lesbians,
make it a must for anyone interested in the literary
figures of the thirties and forties. Dist. by Daedalus,
4601 Decatur St, Hyattsville, MD 20781, $24.98 cl
(down from $45), 0-8109-0939-1.
Jane Freilicher, Paintings presents the gentle,
contemplative landscapes and still lives of this veteran
of the Abstract Expressionist dominated 1950's and
60's. Freilicher (b. 1924) lived (maybe still does) in
NYC and befriended other figurative painters and
many poets, one of whom, John Ashbery, writes an
evocative combination memoir/ discussion of creativ-
ity which introduces the book. Two other essays and
an interview with the artist expand the text. This book
should be easy to sell since the images are so appeal-
ing. Dist. by Daedalus, $9.98 pb, 0-8008-4302-9 (down
from $19.95); $14.95 cl, 0-8008-4301-0 (down from
$29.95).
i W KT à À _ Marie Laurencin: Artist and Muse is a particu-
larly fine book with photos of the artist and her friends
No More Stares by the Disability Rights Educa- (including Gertrude Stein and Picasso), lush illustra-
tion and Defense Fund “provides both a frank discus- tions of her memorable portraits of women (and a few
sion of the problems of growing up female and men), and a text that describes her unique and uncon-
disabled and a documentation of a wide range of ventional life (1885-1956). Birmingham Museum of
possible role models.” With a text of personal histories Art, dist. by the University of Washington Press,
and photos that are exceptional in their depiction of $17.50 pb, 0-295-96857-5.
ordinary activities, this is a book that needs to be both At Twelve, Portraits of Young Women by Sally
in the resource and the art section of every bookstore. Mann is a beautiful, provocative, disturbing book that
DREDF, 2212 Sixth St., Berkeley, CA 94710, $4.55 gives us, at times, more than we might want to know
(wholesale price includes postage and handling.) of the subjects’ lives (and reflects more than we might
Isabel Bishop by Helen Yglesias is about a main- always care to remember of the dangers and complexi-
stay of the New York Figurative Artists scene. In 1918 ties of our own early years). Love, caring, nascent
Bishop (1902-1988), age sixteen, moved to NYC, lived sexuality, and abuse are chronicled here with a deli-
in a “chaperoning establishment” and studied il- cate honesty. Aperture, $25 cl, 0-89381-296-X.
lustration. When she set up her own studio, she fo- Also from Aperture, and good for the holiday
cused her art on young working women: “shop girls,” season, are Dorothea Lange with an essay by Chris-
and these are the images for which she is best known. topher Cox, $9.95 pb, 0-89381-283-8; $14.95 cl, 0-89381-
Rizzoli, $45 cl, 0-8478-0976-5. 282-X and Berenice Abbott with an essay by Julia Van
Daedalus Books is now distributing two very Haaften, $9.95 pb, 0-89381-328-1; $14.95 cl, 0-89381-
special books. Giséle Freund, Photographer is a big, 327-3. The Lange book focuses on her work with mi-
glossy book about a terrific artist whose images are grant workers; the Abbott on her cityscapes and
familiar to all women book lovers: silver-haired See Art Books, page 91
September /October 1989 50 Volume 12 Number 3
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:16 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
By Jane L. Troxell Ohio on his lifelong burning quest to find himself and
Lambda Rising to discover the world at large.
Another well-received first novel coming in
NEW TITLES — GENERAL INTEREST paperback from Plume is Michael Carson’s Brothers
Summer may have been the time for movie in Arms. ($7.95, 0-452-26309-3, October) Teen-aged
sequels, but a few literary continuations appear this Martin Benson, driven by two opposing forces — his
Fall. The sure hit will be Armistead Maupin’s long- love for Jesus and his sexual attraction to boys — joins
awaited (and final) installment in the Tales of the City St. Finebar’s Seminary in hopes of quelling his ho-
series, Sure of You (Harper & Row, $18.95 cl, 0-06- mosexual feelings. When he arrives at the seminary,
016164-7). Unlike the other Tales titles, Sure of You however, Martin recognizes the strong homosexual
will not be released in simultaneous paperback and undercurrent there. Set in Liverpool, Brothers is a
hardcover and will not be serialized anywhere. humorous and poignant portrait of life in a Catholic
Felice Picano follows up his bestselling Ambidex- boys school.
trous: The Secret Lives of Children with Men Who Loved
Me: A Memoir in the Form of a Novel. (NAL, $18.95
cl, 0-453-00700-7, November) In his first fictionalized
memoir, Picano reveals his childhood experiences of
growing up in the suburbs of New York City and Terre Haute, the first novel by former mid-
becoming a self-described “petty criminal,” “drug ad- westerner Will Aitken, is being published as a paper-
dict” and “homosexual” before age twelve. Men Who back original by Delta. ($8.95, 0-385-29872-2,
Loved Me picks up with Felice in his early twenties, November) Set in the Indiana town of the the same
toiling away for the New York City Department of name, Terre Haute details a memorable year in the life
Welfare. Rather than face a life of bureaucracy, he flees of young Jared McCaverty. James has just discovered
to Europe, seeking to find himself and to explore his sex, but isn’t sure yet what it means. When his
homosexuality. Years later, Felice moves on to New thoughts of other boys turns into reality with an older
York's West Village, where he finds himself at the man, Jared discovers the implications — and the
center of the burgeoning gay lifestyle of the late Six- danger — that lie in sexuality.
ties. Politics, parties, drugs, and music — Felice ex- Knights Press boasts a long Fall list, including
periences new adventures amid the swirling times of new works from accomplished writers such as Tim
change and experimentation. [The long overdue Barrus, Daniel McVay, David Watmough, and Chris-
paperback publication of Ambidextrous will appear topher Davis. As announced in the previous issue,
in November (Plume, $7.95, 0-452-26315-8).] Christopher Davis journeys from the pre-AIDS 1970's
And, whereas Spring is the time for new begin- through the current crisis and into the future in The
nings, this Fall is also a time for first novels. New in Boysin the Bars & Other Stories ($9.50 pb,0-915175-38-X).
paperback is C.F. Borgman’s impressive debut, River Canadian David Watmough borrows characters
Road, chronicling the adventures of renaissance gay from his previous novels and creates new ones in
man, Eugene Goessler. (Plume, $8.95, 0-452-26304-2, Families (Knights, $9.00 pb, 0-0915175-45-2), a story
September) We follow Eugene from his rural Ohio of different generations and changing times and
home to New York City, Mexico, abroad, and back to values. To Indigo Dust is Tim Barrus’ thoughtful tale
51 September /October 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:16 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
of discovery in the life of one gay man. Daniel McVay’s from 1940 to the present. The book is expensive, so l'll
latest, The Legend of Jasper Kell ($9.50 pb, 0-915175- be sure to mention it again when it comes out in
42-8, October), is humorous, unique, and timely. paperback.
Of special note: The first two books from the
brand new gay publishing house, Amethyst Press, NONFICTION
have arrived in bookstores... and they look great! The In Homosexuality and Family Relationships,
provocative covers of Dennis Cooper’s collection of edited by Frederick Bozett and Marvin Sussman
poetry, Idols ($8.95 pb, 0-927200-00-7), and Kevin Kil- (Harrington Park Press, $14.95 pb, 0-918393-70-1,
lians second published book, Bedrooms Have Win- Fall), two professionals address the issues surround-
dows ($8.95 pb, 0-927200-01-5), should translate into ing homosexuality, family, and parenting.
brisk sales among the men. Best of luck to Amethyst!
UNIVERSITY PRESSES
Duke University Press will publish Displacing
Homophobia: Gay Male Perspectives in Literature
and Culture (0-8223-0970-X, $14.95 pb; $40.00 cl; 315
AIDS PP., Winter). Editors Ronald R. Butters, John M. Clum,
The best connected gay male writer of our times, and Michael Moon gather essays by many academi-
John Preston, calls on some of our most accomplished cians committed to the replacement of homophobic
writers to address the impact of AIDS on the gay discourse. Articles include “Willie and Wilde: Reading
literary community. In Personal Dispatches: Writers The Portait of Mr. W. H.,” “Something Cloudy, Some-
Confront AIDS (NAL, $17.95 cl, 0-312-03412-1, thing Clear’: Homophobic Discourse in Tennessee
November), Andrew Holleran, Edmund White, Williams,” and “The Plaque of Discourse: Politics,
Robert Glück, and others turn to the written word to Literary Theory, and AIDS.”
confront the panic and fear and despair of a commu-
MYSTERY
nity in crisis.
Lambda Literary Award finalist Who’s Next by
BELLES LETTRES George Baxt will make its paperback debut in Novem-
Donald Windham, friend of both Truman Capote ber. (International Polygonics, $7.95, 1-55882-018-3)
and Tennessee Williams, chronicles those lengthy ac- Eight artsy murder targets, including a lesbian
quaintances in Lost Friendships: A Memoir of sculptress and a gay majordomo, meet morbidly
Truman Capote, Tennessee Williams, and Others. comedic ends in this delicious tale of revenge.
Available for the first time in paperback (Paragon Postponement: The Caravaggio Shawl (Alyson,
House, $10.95, 1-55778-240-7, October), Friendships $8.95 pb, 1-55583-152-4), Samuel Steward’s second
details the self-destruction of the two gifted writers as Gertrude Stein and Alice B. Toklas mystery, will not
well as a literary life that includes Gore Vidal, Isak appear until November.
Dinesen, Montgomery Clift, and André Gide.
Another friend of Tennessee Williams with a lit-
erary reputation that stands on its own, Harold Norse
releases his memoirs in November. Memoirs of a
Bastard Angel (Morrow, $22.95 cl, 0-688-06704-2, 448 HISTORY
PP., 20 b&w photos) promises to be a classic literary Hidden from History: Reclaiming the Gay and
biography. Norse has figured at the center of creative Lesbian Past (NAL, $24.95, 0-453-00689-2, 592 PP»
culture for decades: He was secretary to W.H. Auden; November) promises to be an exciting addition to the
housemate to Tennessee Williams; reader of James field of gay and lesbian history. Editors Martin Duber-
Baldwin’s first novel before it found a publisher; close man, Martha Vicinus, and George Chauncey, Jr., col-
friend to fellow “beat Hotel” guest William Bur- lect diaries, previously unpublished letters, and
roughs; daily companion of Jane and Paul Bowles. novels to reconstruct homosexual history in a number
Norse candidly observes the literary and gay worlds of cultures, including those of Imperial China, Renais-
52
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:16 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
The Cost of Love a California police force. A
by Alexis Rogers gay men's romance and
adventure that is as gritty as
This book chronicles the lives combat and as sweet as love
of two men who survive Vietnam itself.
together. Each returns home to
the difficult adjustment of life Order from
stateside and the even greater Bookpeople,
challenge of being true to Inland,
themselves. They find each or Liberty Press,
other again in an entirely new Box 50421, Austin,
way after becoming partners on TX 78763
sance Italy, Victorian America, and Nazi Germany. being gay in the 1920s, during World War II, from the
Other excellent essays discuss different perspectives advent of the gay liberation movement through the
on the history of homosexual repression and re- age of AIDS.
sistance, civil rights for gays, and the social history of
gays and lesbians. Contributors include John Boswell, DRAMA
Jeffrey Weeks, Paula Gunn Allen, Shari Benstock, and Larry Kramer has revived the tradition of the
John D'Emilio. political play through The Normal Heart and his latest,
Harrington Park Press presents early documents Just Say No: A Play About a Farce (St. Martin’s, $12.95
on homosexuality in Love Letters from a Certain Late c], 0-312-03371-0, December). In Just Say No, Kramer
Nobleman to the Famous Mr. Wilson, edited by Mi- takes aim at America’s rulers, savagely and
chael S. Kimmel, Ph.D. ($9.95 pb, 0-918393-69-8, Fall). hilariously ridiculing the hypocrites in power.
Contained are 20 love letters, originally published in
London in 1723, and appended commentaries laying
out the course of a gay relationship in early 18th-
century England.
Who Was That Man?: A Present for Mr. Oscar ENTERTAINMENT/GIFT BOOKS
Wilde is gay Londoner Neil Bartlett's fascinating per- Quentin Crisp fans will be happy to learn that he
sonal reflection on the links between gay lives today will have two new books this Fall. The first is Quentin
and those of Wilde, his friends, lovers, and acquain- Crisp’s Book of Quotations: 1,000 Observations on
tances over a century ago. Who Was That Man? won Life and Love, By, For, and About Gay Men and
London’s Capital Gay magazine's “Book of the Year” Women. (Macmillan, $18.95 c], 0-02-528801-6, 224 pp.,
Award. November). Unfortunately, Macmillan overlooks the
In early 1989, London’s Hall Carpenter Archives contributions of Unnatural Quotations author Leigh
was closed due to lack of funding. Its huge collection Rutledge in promoting Crisp’s book as “the first major
of gay memorabilia was dispersed among a number book of quotations on gay life.” The two compilations
of British institutions, and two legacies of the group overlap in a few places, but one gets the feeling that
are companion volumes of gay and lesbian oral his- the authors independently established their collec-
tory to be published this Fall by Routledge. Inventing tions throughout the years. Whereas Crisp’s book
Ourselves: Lesbian Life Stories and Walking After houses more snippets, Rutledge’s book is far more
Midnight: Gay Men’s Life Stories ($12.95 pb, 0-415- enjoyable and readable (and, we should note, has been
02957-0; $35.00 cl -9562, October) contain black and out for over a year). Crisp introduces each of his 15
white photos throughout. Male contributors speak of See Gay Lit, page 91
Volume 12 Number 3 53 September /October 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 171 Jan 1976 12:34:56 UTC
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsWithin one month
Sonia Johnson lost
both her husband Matchless feminist theory
ta cF I mN hn eO l ued eU n b HN is rh cI tD aS ae o t tTr r e i OH y d o nR c E h YR eo u x. f f r c r Pc o T oSh L m mh oA i n - sCA i a tE N 'i hssD e i A AP L Pn ia a nb r r n et tt r e ih rawr 1 2t re i eo e vm n e ri on adc nee tln d f li ooa orr k y W ap toa mr st e os n m! ’s e
common assumptions
about the New Age Move-
ment, 12-step programs,
gay rights and AIDS,
motherhood ... and more.
and prophet.” Part 3
An answer to the question
Paper $10.95 r Oa Uis Re d M b INy D SG : O I IN f G w eO U lT ea v O eF
patriarchy, how can we
earn a living?
Paper $10.95
ISBN 1-877617-00-8
NEW S 8o 0n i ma i nSp . e a $k 9.s 9: 5 F r ISo Bm N H 1o -8u 7se 7w 61if 7-e 0 4t -o 0 H Ae ur de it oic. J feo rh vn os ro n a ns dp e a ck ads e nw ci et h o ft h ae
NEW S 6o 0n i ma i nSp . e a $k 9.s 9: 5 T Ie Sll Bin Ng 1 t -h 87e 7 6T 1r 7u -t 0h 5-9 Audio natural-born stor Ty hte el l e Mr. iami Journal
S G S G9 1o o0 0o on n 0i i n ni i ma a g g m inS S iF Fp p n. a ae e . r r a a$ t tk k9 $h hs s. 29e e: : 95r r . 9 5IO OS u uB It t SN B o o N 1f f - 8 1O O7 -7u u 86 7r r1 7 7 6M M- 10 7i i2n n -- 0d d4 3s s - 1A u Vd ii do eo yI U o nh ui re v a Te r r hpd s ea i s t B sy y a Wio ro u n b oa ma,n o rs fd eap c n l e a ’ Mw Wa srk a i y at s E tl y k na h ,t t e c s h r y a ,rD c a ni l nr l d oale dpue w d etw dh S i io eb t a cr.y r eo tf s
87184, (505) 344-4790.
September /October 1989 54
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:16 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
This is going to be an amazing season for feminist larger, more familiar presses? (Not exactly supportive
press books. The “small” “new” publishers have ma- of the up-and-coming new presses.) With the pile
tured into publishers with regular lists and all the closest to me? (Too easy!) Aha! How about alphabeti-
established presses have solid lists as well. I have Fall cal order by publisher so booksellers will be able to
catalogs, announcements, galleys, and manuscript look back and find titles after the first scan...? Annota-
copies from nearly forty feminist presses representing tions will necessarily be brief! But here comes a listing
an as yet uncounted number of books arranged across of the Fall women-owned, women-oriented feminist
my office floor. This has to be the mega-year for femi- presses!
nist publishing and feminist publishers.
As I sit here at the computer, literally surrounded AMANITA/Canada*
by all these books and books-to-be, I'm contemplating Amanita’s Fall offering is The Helen Keremos
the possibility that writing this column is getting to be Trio** Counter Pack which consists of the three mys-
to big for one woman with a host of other editorial teries featuring Canadian detective Helen Keremos:
responsibilities and I'm looking for some other alter- A Reason to Kill, Work for A Million and Beyond Hope
natives. If you have any ideas or suggestions for a new shrink-wrapped together for a seasonal gift package
format for this column, please give me a call. For the which sells for $28. (The books are $32.85 when sold
moment, the overwhelming question is where to separately). 921299-10-9. Hopefully this will hold HK
begin? With the best books? (Pretty hard to tell on fans until the new mystery Uneasy Lies (working
books that haven’t been published yet.) With the title) is ready. 40% for 5-14 books, 42% for 15-44, 43%
for 45+. Amanita Enterprises, PO Box 784 Stn. P,
** Titles that qualify for Inland's WomanSource Cat- Toronto Ont. M5S 2Z1. BP/IN.
alog additional discounts are marked with two as-
terisks. BERGAMOT*
* Publishers whose backlist titles combine to reach I found an old copy of Down the Wild River
quantity for discounts are marked with one asterisk. North** by Connie Helmricks on a friend’s bookshelf
Bookpeople and Inland distribute small press books to a few years ago while traveling. I didn’t get much time
bookstores. (Individuals must order from their local book- with the book, but the bits that I read are still vivid in
store, a bookstore that does mail order, or direct from the my mind: encounters with log jams and bears, the
publisher.) IN at the end of an annotation means that the whole concept of a single mother taking her 12- and
title is distributed by Inland (Order number: 800-243- 14-year-old daughters off for entire summers of
0138. In Canada and Connecticut call collect: 203-468- canoeing Arctic waterways and rivers captivated me
0589. PO Box 261, 254 Bradley St., East Haven CT 06512.) and I've been looking for a copy of my own ever since.
BP means that the titles are distributed by Bookpeople. So I'm delighted that Bergamot is releasing an
Phone: 800-227-1516. 2929 Fifth St., Berkeley, CA 94710. abridged version of the 500 page book (originally
Both distributors stock a wide range of titles and published by Little Brown in 1968) in October. 300 pp.,
publishers of interest to feminist bookstores. If you are a new $9.95 pb, 0-943127-02-5. Bergamot Books, PO Box
store or don't already work with both distributors, drop 7413, Minneapolis MN 55407. BP/ IN.
Volume 12 Number 3 55 September /October 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:16 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
erotic lyricism and explores the depth of female
knowledge as mother and daughter travel through
South America to the heights of Machu Picchu. Prices
to be announced. November. Pb, 0-934971-12-9; cl,
0-934971-11-.
As a result of Calyx’s work with the NEA Ad-
THIRD WOMAN vancement Program's Target Technical Assistance
Program, Calyx (the journal) will be published twice
yearly in July and November, rather than three times
a year. Single issue price has been raised from $6.50 to
$8.00. The latest edition (Summer 1989) includes work
FDT by Leah Kosh, Lois Bunse, Susanna Sturgis and others.
Calyx, PO Box B, Corvallis OR 97339. Distributed
by The Talman Company, BP & IN.
THIRD WOMAN JOURNAL is an annual an-
thology featuring poetry, drama, narrative, CLEIS*
reviews, creative and critical essays, inter- Cleis’s Fall books include the U.S. edition of Attic
views and graphic art by Chicanas/Latinas Press’ Peggy Deery: A Derry Family At War** by Nell
and Third World Woman. Books from THIRD McCafferty ($9.95 pb, 0- 939416-29-X; $21.95 c], -29-8),
WOMAN PRESS include works by Barbara The One You Call Sister: New Women’s Fiction**
Brinson Curiel, Sandra Cisneros, Luz Maria edited by Paula Martinac, “a stunning collection of
Umpierre-Herrera, and Iris Zavala. stories about sisters” ($9.95 pb, 0- 939416-31-X; $24.95
c], -30-1), and A Lesbian Love Advisor,** Celeste
Send fo r : Ta h if rr de e W c oa mta al nog : Press oW ue ts st 's (" Tt ho en g ou ne- lyin - wch ae ye k t og u li ed ae v e t o a t lh ove e ri n ’ is s ( lf al ui grt hi in ng g) , and
D UC wh ni iic vna .e n l o l oe f S Ht Cu a ald ll i i fe 3s o4 r1 n2 ia b t 4 1i 0 0l oo 0 ,nw 00s 0 i 0n c bg o y cp o iy e pNo s y u i c p o fra l i ee r - sk p tFi u -s e pbs r" r,e) i n n sto tez if t. n t gil L n .e e gs sb E b i xiia na cn n e r m pr L te oo sl ta v i t e o wi no in A l ls d Ch v l ai eip ps is s po. ’ er a fI r l s i l ro u isls nd tt r a e a- ver
Berkeley, CA 94720 dozen lesbian/gay publications. Celeste West runs
Booklegger Publishing. Her books include Revolting
Librarians, The Passionate Perils of Publishing, Words in
CALYX* our Pockets: The Feminist Writer's Guild Handbook, and
Calyx will release its sixth book in November, Elsa: I Come With My Songs (with Elsa Gidlow). Perfect
Indian Singing in 20th Century America,** a collec- timing for holiday sales. Stock up. My money says that
tion of poetry by Mic Mac poet and artist Gail Trem- the first printing will be sold out by December 25.
blay. “In this visionary quest the spiritual path that $9.95 pb, 0-939416-26-3; $24.95 c|, -27-1. Cleis Press,
sustains individuals is revealed through a series of PO Box 8933, Pittsburgh PA 15221. IN & BP.
‘light lines’ connecting all humanity. During these
difficult and confusing times Gail Tremblay’s poetry CRONES OWN PRESS
and art point to the ‘natural way, the web of light’ In Widdershins, a novel by Judith W. Monroe, the
that is life. This work of hope presents enduring les- question is who is bewitched and whois the bewitcher
sons to accommodate change in our troubled twen- when land developers cast their spell over a small
tieth century. $9.00 pb, 0-934971-13-7; $16.95 c|, Maine island with promises of work and a better
0-934971-14-5. economy. Meanwhile a group of neopaganists use
South America Mi Hija by Sharon Doubiago (The singular methods of magic to short-circuit the
Book of Seeing With One's Own Eyes) is an epic poem developers plans... $9.95 pb, 0-9615216-5-1, Crone’s
that leads the reader through a complex labyrinth of Own Press, 310 Driver St., Durham NC 27703. IN.
56
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:16 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
FEDERATION OF FEMINIST WOMEN’S FIREBRAND*
HEALTH CENTERS Firebrand’s Fall list includes the Dykes To Watch
The FFWHC has re-published When Birth Con- Out For 1990 Calendar by Alison Bechdel ($8.95 wall
trol Fails, a guide to self-abortion techniques includ- calendar, 0-932379-63-X, see last issue, page 53) and
ing menstrual extraction, in light of the various the U.S. edition of Sans Souchi and Other Stories**
impending Supreme Court decisions. $15.00 pb, book- by Dionne Brand which has been a best-seller in all the
store discount not indicated. FFWHC, 1043 University Canadian bookstores. In Sans Souchi Brand explores
Ave. #169, San Diego CA 92103. 213-930-2512. Black women’s marginality in both the home she left
(Trinidad) and the one she adopted (Toronto). Sans
THE FEMINIST PRESS Souchi (without sorrow’) offers stories about women
The Feminist Press has four books on their Fall caught up in the intensity of their lives while racism
list. A Brighter Coming Day is the first comprehen- and sexism render their real selves invisible. “Elegant
sive anthology of Black feminist abolitionist writer writing, keen observation, vision, and a driving
and activist Frances Ellen Watkins Harper. It includes energy turn pain into something useable.” $8.95 pb,
poetry, journalism, two chapters of her only novel Iola 0-932379-70-2; $18.95 cl, 0-932379-71-2. October.
Leroy and “a generous group of letters that make Humid Pitch** once again reveals poet Cheryl
palpable the dailiness of her life as a traveler/ lecturer Clarke (Narratives: Poems in the Tradition of Black Women
both in the North and in the South.” $13.95 pb, 1- and Living as a Lesbian) as a probing storyteller. Clark
55861-020-0; $29.95 cl Đ019-7. How I Wrote Jubilee unearths the untold or not-told-often-enough tales of
And Other Essays on Life and Literature is the first women of color, triumphant lesbians, ambivalent men,
comprehensive collection of Margaret Walker’s slave women, and the children who survive childhood,
speeches and autobiographical and literary essays. exploring her perennial themes of love, sex, lesbianism,
$9.95 pb, 1-55861-004-9; $29.95 cl, 003-0. Written in loss, and the open road along the way. $8.95 pb, 0-
1935 but never before published, The End of This 932379-66-4; $18.95 cl, 0-932379-67-2. October.
Day’s Business is the companion piece and reversal Eye of a Hurricane** by Ruthann Robson offers
of Swastika Night. It depicts a female-dominated world thirteen surprising, sometimes startling stories about
4000 years after the defeat of Nazism. Men are harm- women riding out the storm. Buffeted by the winds of
less, happy, empty-headed people who enjoy sports violence, chance encounter, inevitable change, and
and sex. Only women enjoy consciousness and know personal history Robson’s characters — lesbian,
the long and terrible history of the world and they bisexual, straight — seek the eye of a hurricane to find
have vowed to keep men in their subordinate position a moment's calm and the time to come to terms with
so as not to repeat history. An anti-war book rather surrounding turmoil. Some struggle to gain personal
than an anti-male novel, according to Feminist Press. clarity at whatever cost. Others cultivate their un-
$8.95 pb, 1-55861-009-X; $24.95 cl, -016-2. Seeds: willingness and their inability to see past their own
Supporting Women’s Work in the Third World hothouse doors. $8.95 pb, 0-932379-64-8; $18.95 cl,
edited by Ann Leonard collects eight portraits of 0-932379-65-6. October.
unique development projects organized by and for Ellen Frye’s premise in The Other Sappho”** is
women in the Third World. $12.95 pb, 0-935312-93-5; that if there was one “Sappho” whose work has sur-
$29.95 cl, -92-7. The Feminist Press, 311 East 94 $t., vived all these centuries, then there must have been
NYC NY 10128. Distributed by The Talman Company, others like her. Out of this idea and a strong know-
150 Fifth Ave., NY NY 10011. IN & BP. ledge of Greek storytelling and music, she's created
57 September /October 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:16 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Lykaina, Sappho’s contemporary, a poet from a differ-
ent storytelling tradition. I heard parts of this novel
L read this summer and am eagerly looking forward to
being able to read the rest. $8.95 pb, 0-932379-68-0;
$18.95 cl, 0-932379-69-9. October.
Firebrand Books, 141 The Commons, Ithaca NY
14850. IN & BP.
GALLERIA/Canada
The second Gallerie Annual issue of Gallerie:
Women’s Art is out. New and established women
artists describe their art, their lives, and their
philosophies in this glossy 112 page book. Contribu-
WSomEeIn’Ns Experience of Childhood tors include environmental artist Patricia Johanson,
renowned 84-year-old painter Lois Mailou Jones,
quiltmaker Faith Ringgold, artist/writer Tee
Corinne, sculptor Muriel Castanis, and lesbian pho-
tographer JEB/Joan Biren. $12.00 pb, 0-9693361-1-
Written and researched by a team of women X. 40% for 3+. Gallerie, Box 2901 Panorama Dr.,
affiliated with The Women’s Research Centre North Vancouver BC 74G 2A4. BP.
(VEancTouv er , E CaIna da ), S RAecollnecti ng EOura Liv esa is
iiae ddi kloe E E GYNERGY BOOKS/Canada
HOTS aliaa aE arte aoe Gynergy has five books this season. By Word of
and with mothers of children who have been Mouth: Lesbians Write the Erotic might be con-
sexually abused provide the framework for this sidered the lead title. Editor Lee Fleming says of the
book. The research reveals that regardless of life- work, “This collection connects me with my life
style, education or socio-economic background, energy. These women express the erotic as vital and
a aw n o dcm o me sn em t o w onh f o a bn w ed l e i er d fe i s s t s i ae n bx c ou t ua i tl vl ey t h sa e eb q mu us see end lc v e e a s s o f tc h h aei txl d p r dee r en vie en lh oc pa ev s ede ap no dw e r yf eu arl, n inco gn sn ...e .(c It )te d i st o a o su ar m pd le inep ge s t o f e m soo mti eo n ls e, s b n iae ne sd ’s
as a result of the sexual abuse. erotic experience....” And a good addition the emerg-
1Se) g Aaate A OAA dAAa eA aE ing body of lesbian erotica. It includes work by a mix
T aNd Nese Na oa ee 1.of U.S. and Canadian writers. $12.95 pb, 0-921881-06-
fuEl iNn br ea kinAg oCut of tahe cy clee of adbusea. tThea bnook saik The other four titles are published as a set.
sexual abuse and other issues of violence against T bh ee cy w we rre i t ein ri t ia Nlly ic oc lo en c e Biv red o s sin a r 1 d9 ’8 s7 sd eu mrin ig n aQ ru e - at West
women, including wife assault, pornography and
(arteo date ee o a IE Neotel Word 3 (the annual women’s writing workshop in
idTentaitye. Be caAuse I t he baoo k ies abaseed o n N woAmenI’s Vancouver). They are political, playful and poetic
[oNN aN Cae aCA fictions that question assumptions about
(eNe CE S a aKo n ie women’s culturally devised identities. These are
voolvaedd w itEh a dEult survivors and families of victims t oe ux rt u la il s st r a et xe pg oi se es pth ria vt ein gev e s at ni dg a t ce at nh ge c to hn et e x bt nof
v e , i l h e o u -
daries of the narrative space we occupy. In these
ISBN 0889740194 $12.95 works, the writers make use of the contradictions
51⁄2 X81⁄/ Paper Available October 1989 and subtleties of language to subvert, clarify and
press gang publishers extend meaning. Hotel Destiné by Patricia Sea-
man, 0-921881-10-X; Bodies of Knowledge: Fear
603 Powell St., Vancouver, B.C. V6A IH2 Canada by Nancy Chater, 0-921881-08-8; Walking In-
September /October 1989 58
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:16 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
side Circles by Angela Hyrniuk, 0-921881-11-8; and Emerald Mountain." $7.95 pb, 0-920999-16-6. 40%, no
Insister by Ann Decter. All $9.95 pb. 40% for 5+. minimum. In Canada order from Lazara Press (Box
Gynergy Books, Box 132 Charlottetown PEI, 2269 VMPO, Vancouver BC V6B 3W2) or the Literary
Canada C1A 7K2. Dist. in Canada by University of Press Group. In the U.S. order from Inland.
Toronto Press, Turnaround in the U.K. and Inland
in the U.S. NAIAD*
Naiad’s four remaining titles for 1989 include the
IN OTHER WORDS PUBLISHING previously announced Rose Penski** by Roz Perry
Heather Has Two Mommies promises to be the ($8.95 pb, 0-941486-37-1, October), Naiad’s first-ever
picture book booksellers (and our customers) have been hardback fiction The Beverly Malibu** by Katherine
wanting for years — a good book for kids growing up in V. Forrest, and simultaneous paperback and cloth edi-
lesbian families. Written by Leslea Newman and il- tions of Gertrude Stein’s lesbian-erotic Lifting Belly**
lustrated by Diana Souza, Heather will tell the story of a and Naiad’s long promised book on coming-out to
little girls discovery that her family is “different.” For one's children, There’s Something I’ve Been Mean-
children (and others) from age 3 up. FBN hasn't seen this ing to Tell You.
yet, but I can hardly wait. $6.95 pb, 0-9622789-0-4, full It will be interesting to see how Katherine For-
color cover. Oct. Bookstore terms not sent. In Other rest’s fans take to the hardcover price tag on The
Words, 351 Pleasant Street, Suite 233, Northampton MA Beverly Malibu — most of them, presumably, will
01060. Also distributed by IN. be expecting paperback. I have to admit that I'm
glad Im not working in a bookstore the week it
LAZARA/Canada comes out! Her fans are going to want the book —
Lazara has three titles on their Fall list including that’s not the question. The question is how many
a new set of short stories by Helen Potrebenko Hey readers will pay the hardback price and how many
Waitress and Other Stories. Potrebenko’s work is “lost” sales there will be while fans circulate a
always wry and rowdy, giving voice and recognition single cloth copy rather than wait for the paper-
to working class women and telling truth about the back. In any case, in The Beverly Malibu, LAPD
real lives of office workers, waitresses and, in this case, detective Kate Delafield and her partner Ed investi-
writers, via a fictitious interview with a not-so- gate the premeditated and pitiless murder of an
fictitious author (herself). $12 pb, 0-920999-12-3. Al- old-time Hollywood director, a one-time “friendly
though previously published in Room of One's Own, witness” before the House Un-American Activities
Smiling Under Water is Margaret Hollingsworth’s Committee and generally despicable guy. Kate sifts
first collection of short stories. Lazara promises that through the clues, the set of handcuffs that fastened
these stories “travel both externally in the world the murdered man to his bed, an album of Wag-
and internally into the depths of relationships with nerian opera, a bottle of bourbon laced lightly with
other women and men and into the narrator's own arsenic and a silver frame missing its photo. Of
heart.” $12.00 pb, 0-920999-14-X. In Voices in the Wa- course nothing is simple, and Kate's as much in a
terfall Cree writer Beth Cuthand explores, from the quandary over the woman who discovered the
depths of a very personal spirituality, living in a world murdered man as she is about the crime..... $16.95
which is no longer sensitive to nature and ritual. This cl, 0-941483-47-9, November.
first collection of poetry celebrates her culture and The Naiad Press edition of Gertrude Stein’s long,
heritage, and includes her long poem “Horse Dance to erotic love letter to Alice B. Toklas Lifting Belly is
59 September /October 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:16 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
a new book by the author of
THE NOTEBOOKS THAT EMMA GAVE ME:
the autobiography of a lesbian
PANHANDLING
PAPERS
KADY'S ARTICLES, LETTERS, DRAWINGS ABOUT:
LESBIANS, BEING POOR, PRISON, PATRIARCHY,
WRITING, SELF PUBLISHING, THE DOUBLE AXE,
WHITE LIGHT, PEACE CAMPS, THE BIRTH STRIKE.
"Kady is beautiful and her book is beautiful.
It is her real voice telling you about her real
lifeľe -- an honest, brave, sad, and angry life.
I love her and her words." -- ANDREA DWORKIN
88 large pages, softcover, $8.50
5 copies $28.60 postpaid
10 copies $55.35 postpaid
20 copies $102 postpaid
Send checks to: KAY VANDEURS
P.O. Box 623, Northampton MA 01061
"I am trying to sprinkle 2,000 copies aroumd
the earth, fast, so I can wander away from
my P.O. box. Get it while you can." -- KADY
September /October 1989 60 Volume 12 Number 3
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:16 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
presented and introduced by Rebecca Marks. This portrait of a contemporary woman with grown child-
edition will be the first time in many years that Lifting ren, now divorced and unexpectedly single, making
Belly has been available in a single volume format sense of her life. Flashbacks take us through the dete-
and it will introduce Stein's genius to a new genera- riorating marriage, the WW II romance, a childhood
tion of lesbian readers. $8.95 pb, 0-941483-51-7; $14.95 with embarrassing ‘commie’ parents while the con-
c], 0-941483-53-3. temporary chapters take us to the house by the sea, the
There's Something I’ve Been Meaning to Tell years of single mothering, a complex lesbian relation-
You edited by Loralee Macpike offers lesbian and gay ship and to the brink of a much happier one. But the
parents a collection of heartwarming and sometimes novel doesn’t stop with a romance/ fade-out. Instead,
heartbreaking tales of coming out to the kids. The Katherine sets off on a round-the-world tour to find
contributors come from a variety of backgrounds, something even more rewarding — herself. I don’t
some are closeted, others are out in a variety of con- have the U.S. price, probably about $10.00 pb, 0-
texts — but not always out to their children. Some 908652-32-1.
parents take a risk — others don’t — or can't. Some New Women’s Press Poetry includes Tai—Heart
children are accepting while others aren't. There’s of a Tree a complete collection of Samoan/New Zea-
Something I've Been Meaning to Tell You gathers all lander Momoe Talietoa Von Reiche’s work from 1979-
these stories and more. $9.95 pb, 0-941483-44-4; $16.95 1986 (pb, 0-908652-36-4); and 2 Deaths in 1 Night, a
c], 0-941483-54-1. collection of vivid, witty and understated poems set
in all sorts of unexpected contexts — hospital wards,
NEW VICTORIA* university lecture theatres, offices, bedrooms,
Someone at ABA stole New Victoria's mock up of kitchens and backyards — exploring personal and
Cut-Outs & Cut-Ups: A Fun 'N Games Book for sexual relationships and women’s roles (pb, 0-908652-
Lesbians by Elizabeth Dean, Linda Wells and Andrea 27-5).
Curran before I had a chance to look at it. But the Robin Hyde’s Wednesday’s Children is the lead
women at NV promise hours of fun with cartoons, title in New Women’s Classics Series. As a young
crossword puzzles filled with dyke words, mazes, woman and artist, Robin Hyde felt trapped between
dyke paper dolls and much more. “Just the thing to ‘the tradition of respectability’ and a freer age. Wed-
keep you amused on the long ride to Michigan or at nesday’s Children, her only fantasy, is set in Auck-
home next to the wood stove.” What? Fun? No re- land in the 1930's. In it she deliberately revises
deeming social value? What an idea! What a lark. And contemporary notions about female identity and
just in time for The Holidaze. $8.95 pb, 0-934678-20-0. potential. Pb, 0- 908652-37-2.
Don’t miss New Victoria's summer release: Patricia Roth Home Away From Home: Life Stories of
Schwartz’ short fiction collection The Names of the Chinese Women in New Zealand by Manying Ip tells
Moons of Mars**. $8.95 pb, 0- 934678-19-7. New Victoria the stories of eight women who arrived in New Zea-
Publishers, Box 27, Norwich Vt 05055. IN & BP. land between 1908 and 1976; women whose lives have
been patterned by momentous political events and
NEW WOMEN’S PRESS/New Zealand* who have met the challenge of making a life in a
Dancing With Strings by Frances Cherry (The society very different from that of their homeland.
Daughter-In-Law and Other Stories) is New Zealand's 0-908652-45-3.
first full-length lesbian novel. It’s a fine novel alternat- New Women’s Press, PO Box 470339, Auckland,
ing between present time and flash backs to offer a New Zealand. IN
61 September /October 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:16 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Ragweed Press/gynergy books i Ns o ia st e o fn rc oe m u tn hiv e e r Wsa ol, o d f shem edi n ii ss t , t ha en d f ires sp t e c bi oal ol ky , i nIr i s Oh n.” ly -A
is the exclusive Canadian distributor of women’s Lesbian Feminist Short Fiction series. Only-
books by noted feminist, orator and women will be publishing annual anthologies as well
author a Ns o vi en mdi bv ei rd .ual collections. $8.95 pb, 0-906500-30-3,
SONIA JOHNSON Stranger Than Fish by J.E. Hardy is the second in
Onlywomen’s Lesbian Feminist Short Fiction series.
Wildfire J.E.’s work has appeared in two previous Onlywomen
Igniting the She/Volution anthologies The Reach and The Pied Piper. The core of
$13.95 pb this collection is the exhilaration (and pain) of self
realization. “Hardy’s work is always careful and con-
From Housewife to Heretic templative, narrating the circumstances in which our
One Woman’s Spiritual Awakening deepest emotions are played out. In a wide range of
and Her Excommunication from settings — England, France, and the U.S. — the much
the Mormon Church married as well as the exuberant, innocent young fight
$13.95 pb their way toward significance.” $8.95 pb, 0-906500-32-
X, November.
Sonia Speaks The poems in Suniti Namjoshi’s Because of
Going Farther Out of Our Minds India** chart the political as well as the literary
$10.95 audio cassette development of this major lesbian feminist poet over
the past 25 years. Brief prose essays interlace the
also NEW from gynergy books groups of poems setting out the sexual politics and
By Word of Mouth poetic significance of nationality, geography, and cul-
Lesbians write the erotic ture where these poems were written — India, the
edited by Lee Fleming U de.S f. t, tC oa un ca hd a , t o a n hd a r G por oe nat mB or rit aa l in i. s s uN ea sm j oo fs h ri a cu es e s a n dh e r sexu-
$12.95 pb ality. The Times Literary Supplement describes her work
all books available through University of Toronto as “a formal analogue of an ideal lesbian reciprocity.”
Press Distribution $8.95 pb, 0-906500-33-8, October.
Passion is Everywhere Appropriate by Caroline
Griffin is the second in Onlywomen’s 89/90 Lesbian
ONLYWOMEN/England* Feminist Poetry series. “It wrings an exhilarating faith
Onlywomen celebrates their 15th anniversary out of the ordinariness of contemporary British life.
this November! Hooray and congratulations! They Her work is at once limpid, stark, and energizing."
have four books this Fall: A Noise from the Wood- Griffin has contributed to Naming the Waves, Beautiful
shed,** a collection of Irish lesbian feminist short sto- Barbarians, The Lesbian in the Classroom and has co-
ries by Mary Dorcey, not only reflects the gorgeous, written several plays that have been published by
lyrical traditions of Irish literature; it transfigures Methuen. $7.95, 0-906500-34-6, November.
them into a specifically sensual, female language. Onlywomen Press, 38 Mount Pleasant, London
Onlywomen publisher Anna Livia says, “The most WC1X 0AP. Distributed in the U.S by IN & BP.
moving, sensuous fiction I've ever read....right from
the title story which reminds us all, forcefully, PAPIER-MACHÉ PRESS
tenderly, why we wanted a revolution like a lover. In Fragments I Saved From The Fire** is a collec-
this collection she includes the final scenes of a hetero- tion of short stories from When I Am an Old Woman I
sexual marriage, lesbian romance that is both Shall Wear Purple contributor Mary Anne Ashley. It
scrupulous and knowing, male brutality in rural Ire- includes that first published story “Gracefully
land, the interior monologues of senility — her range Afraid,” a monologue in which a middle-aged woman
September /October 1989 62
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:16 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
speaks of her up-and-down relationship with an increas- 7. Available Plain View Press only. Plain View also has
ingly eccentric friend which received strong praise in two chapbooks dealing with goddess themes, Altar by
many When I Am reviews. (“Alone worth the purchase Susan Bright, $6.00, 0-011051-10-4, and You Said
price,” according to Belle Lettres.) I'll say the same for What Is This For — This Interest In Goddesses,
“The Woman Who Likes to Fall Down” and several other Prehistoric Religions by Susan Lee/Susanah Libana,
stories in this collection. Another excellent cover in the $6.00, 0-911051-17-1. 40% for 5+ books. Plain View
Papier-Maché tradition.lt will be a popular gift book. Press, 1509 Dexter, Austin TX 78704.
$9.00 pb, 0-918949-06-8, September.
If I Had A Hammer: Women’s Work in Poetry PRESS GANG/Canada*
and Fiction**, edited by Sandra Martz (editor of When Press Gang's big Fall title is Recollecting Our
I Am An Old Woman...) explores women’s experience Lives: Women’s Experience of Childhood Sexual
in the workplace through stories, poems and photo- Abuse** written and researched by a team of six
graphs depicting the joys, the frustrations, and above women affiliated with the Women’s Research Centre.
all, the determination to maintain one’s sense of self. The book offers both first person accounts and re-
$11.00 pb, 0-918949-09-2, October. search summaries that reveal that, regardless of life-
The poetry in Flight of the Wild Goose** by 79 style, education or socio-economic background,
year old poet Janet Carncross Chandler (with photo- women who were sexually abused as children have a
graphs by Lori Burkhalter-Lackey) explores love and common and distinctive sequence of experiences and
relationships from the perspective of later life and set of beliefs about themselves that developed as a
celebrates age and the fullness of a flourishing life. result of the sexual abuse. It outlines the types of
$8.00 pb, 0-918949-07-6, September. support, resources and insights that women have
Papier-Maché Press, 795 Manzana, Watsonville found helpful in breaking out of the cycle of abuse and
CA 95076. Distributed by IN and BP also discusses the interconnections between child
sexual abuse and other issues of violence against
PLAIN VIEW PRESS women including wife assault, pornography and the
New books from Plain View Press (Texas’ only distortion of women’s sexual expression and identity.
feminist literary publisher) include Ancient Child: $12.95 pb, 0-88974-019-4. October. 40% bookstore dis-
Poetry About Incest by Marcella Bryant ("She writes count. No minimum. Press Gang Publishers, 603
of the horror, cruelty and disturbing reality that is Powell St., Vancouver BC V6A 1H2. Distributed in
incest with transformative courage and a gift of grace Canada by University of Toronto Press, in the US by
that brings us all to healing") ($10.00 pb, 0-911051-47- Bookpeople and Inland.
3) and Callahan County poetry by Brenda Black
White ("The author draws on her childhood memories SEAL*
of rural life in a small Texas town — stories about Seals first two audio cassettes should be on hand
crops and neighbors, tornadoes and snakes, all of life's and in stock by the time you read this. InGetting Free:
terrifying, poignant, and amusing aspects.") ($10.00 Are You Abused? (And What To Do About It)**
pb, 0-911051-49), both of which are distributed by BP. Ginny NiCarthy discusses key ideas from her best-
Unbroken Circle an oral history transcribed and selling book Getting Free. She begins with how a
edited from tapes by Mary Jane Weaver about her woman can tell if she is being abused, helps the
mid-1800’s childhood on the Texas frontier and the listener analyze her reasons for staying in a battering
subsequent 80 years of her life. $10.00 pb, 0-911051-28- relationship, and gives essential advice on how to
September /October 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:16 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
leave an abusive partner. $9.95, 0-931188-89-4. In the letters from women thanking her for telling the truth
audio version of Lesbian Couples** D. Merilee Clunis about the relentless pressure of their lives. $9.95 pb,
and G. Dorsey Green discuss sexuality, raising child- 0-931188-80-6; $18.95 c], 0-931188-81-4. October
ren, coming out, resolving conflicts, dealing with Antipodes** by Maria-Antónia Oliver (Study in
homophobia, problem-solving techniques and the Lilacs) takes hard-boiled Catalan private eye Lónia
challenges and pleasures of being part of a couple. Guiu to the opposite side of the globe in the September
$9.95, 0-931188-85-7. release in Sea's International Women’s Crime series.
Voyages Out 1: Lesbian Short Fiction** is the $8.95 pb, 0-931188-82-2. Hallowed Murder** by Ellen
first in Seal’s new series showcasing the work of Hart finds mystery and murder in Minneapolis. “Fea-
lesbian fiction writers whose work has not been pre- turing a memorable cast of characters and an intri-
viously collected. It features the work of Conditions guing inside view of the dark undercurrents of
editor Paula Martinac (The One You Call Sister /Cleis) sorority and religious life, Hallowed Murder is an
and Carla Tomaso, whose work has previously been outstanding addition to Seal’s well-regarded series of
published in Common Lives/Lesbian Lives and Unholy feminist mysteries. $8.95 pb, 0- 931188-83-0. Septem-
Alliances. ber.
Seal’s Fall offerings in their Women in Translation Seal Press, 3131 Western Avenue, Suite 410, Seat-
Series: Words of Farewell: Stories by Three Korean tle WA 98121. Distributed to bookstores by Consor-
Women Writers** presents three highly regarded tium (213 East 4th St., St. Paul MN 55101), IN & BP.
Korean women writers, Kang Sok-kyong — one of the Raincoast in Canada.
most popular writers in Korea, Kim Chi-won — who
sets her stories in Korea and her current New York SHAMELESS HUSSY PRESS
City home, and O Chong-hui — the most important Word went round about a year ago that Shame-
living woman writer in Korea, to English-readers for less Hussy Press, the first of the still-intact feminist
the first time. The stories dissect the relations between publishers, was going to be sold to a collective of four
woman and men, tackle key social issues such as women, but the deal seems to have fallen through.
prostitution near American army bases, student pro- This Fall, Shameless Hussy will publish Deluged
tests, adultery, marriages of convenience, and more. With Dudes, a collection of Alta’s love poems to men.
350pp. $10.95 pb, 0-931188-76-8; $20.95 cl, 0-931188- As a feminist, Alta’s view of men is rarely flattering,
77-6. October. When A Week Like Any Other: Novel- but her appreciation of them is entertaining and pro-
las and Stories** by Natalya Baranskaya was vocative. ("As exciting as some of these guys were, I’ve
published in Russia the author received hundreds of never loved a man more than a white page.") Alta
7
BEYOND THE EAGLE
BEYOND ning,
E The o ef nr tes A on n I Wni ote mr av nib ’sr a t Si po in ra itl u aP le r Jsp oe uc mti ev ye
FAGLE by Ellen Chambers with
OnA WA omanE 's E Spir itu alN Journey w doifmf er n's spir Sev eG n r Oa tc he er W Woa ml ek ni n ing S pS irt itick and
Yo S A
ZI
eae aES ELLEN
ISBN 0-9621017-0-2
Paperback, $12.95
N Z
September /October 1989 64
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:16 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
resisted doing this book on the grounds that love schoo], sexuality, and the law. $7.95 pb, 84 pp, 0-
poems to men are so commonplace — but rarely are 920812-77-1, October.
they as full of irony, rage and humor as these. $8.95 pb, Recently out-of-print, Silenced: Caribbean
0-915288-59-1. Alta was the first to publish Susan Grif- Domestic Workers Talk with Makeda Silvera will be
fin, Pat Parker, Ntozake Shange, Mitsuye Yamada, republished by Sister Vision in October. In Silenced
and Judith Arcana. Shameless Hussy Press, Box 5540, Caribbean women working in Canada as domestic
Berkeley CA 94705. BP & IN. workers tell about their lives, the work they do, and
about their interactions with their employers and the
SISTER VISION: BLACK WOMEN & state. It is a powerful testimony from a group of
WOMEN OF COLOUR PRESS/Canada women who work at the very base of production — at
Sister Vision has four books this Fall. Coloured the level of household labor. $10.95 pb, 0-920813-73-9,
Pictures by Himani Bannerji is an entertaining story October.
for young people that dares to confront the issue of Creation Fire has been postponed until Spring.
racism through a portrayal of children’s lived ex- 40% up to 99 copies. 43% for 100+. Sister Vision, PO
perience. The adventures of Surindar, an East Indian Box 217 Station E, Toronto Ontario, Canada M6H 4E2.
boy and his friends, take the reader into the bitter 416-532-9868. Distributed by University of Toronto
world of racism. Along the way the reader also wit- Press in Canada, by Inland in the US.
nesses the capacity of youth to face life with courage
and often with humour. Coloured Pictures is about SPINSTERS/AUNT LUTE*
the shedding of ignorance and prejudice and collec- Thirteen Steps: An Empowerment Process for
tive organizing. This warm, intelligent tale is relevant Women** by Swan evolved out of the author's work
to teens of all races and is sure to inspire thoughtful and workshops with groups of women dealing with
discussion pertaining to racism, an issue we are all various forms of recovery or transformation. “These
faced with daily. $7.95 pb, 60 pp, 0-920813-86-0, steps are based on her belief that a woman-centered
December. spirituality is the most successful path for empower-
The Issue Is ‘Ism: Women of Colour Speak ment.” $8.95 pb, 0-933216-68-8, Fall.
Out first appeared as Issue 16 of Fireweed, a Living in a desert trailer community of mostly old
Canadian feminist quarterly in 1983. Rich in diver- women, Cynthia Rich offers her perspectives on a
sity, it includes essays, short stories, poems, photo- range of topics in Desert Years: Undreaming the
graphs, illustrations and graphics by Black, South American Dream**. Subjects include the desert as the
Asian, Native, Filipino, and Central American companion of an older lesbian; being Jewish in a com-
women. They discuss racism, sexism, classism, im- munity of born-again Christians; watching the city-
perialism and other ‘isms. Contributors include Hi- polluted air finally make its way over the mountains
mani Bannerji, Claire Harris, Nila Gupta, Sylvia and into the small valley community where she lives.
Hamilton, Prabha Khosla, Cecilia Green, Claire Rich co-authored Look Me in the Eye with Barbara
Preito and many others. Sister Vision is proud to Macdonald. $7.95 pb, 0-933216-67-X; $17.95 cl, 0-
reprint this relevant and popular anthology. $10.95 933216-69-6. Fall.
pb, 0-920813-72-0, October. Coz** by Mary Pjerrou is something of a new-age
Growing Up Black by Makeda Silvera is a re- detective novel. “An assortment of eccentrics includ-
source manual and workbook exploring issues that ing Coz, an 80-year-old witch, live at the top of Only
directly affect Black youths. Silvera discusses racism, Mountain. Rumor has it that Coz can make time move
September /October 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:16 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
backwards, resurrect the dead and suck the living Sexuality of Latinas and has been in the works since
back to the womb. When the doctor and the midwife 1986. It includes work by well known writers such as
from the town at the foot of Only Mountain are un- Cherríe Moraga, Denise Chávez, Sandra Cisneros,
willingly drawn to Coz’s realm, the tension between Ana Castillo, Luz Maríe Umpierre, Gloria Anzaldúa
their scientific beliefs and the evidence before their and Rosina Conde, as well as the work of newer
eyes brings each of them to personal reconsiderations writers. Lesbian inclusive throughout, it also includes
of their pasts....Extremely well-written.” $9.95 pb, 0- a report on the First Meeting of Latin American and
933216-70-X. Fall. Spinsters/Aunt Lute, PO Box Caribbean Lesbian Feminists. $8.95, 0-889-0722.
410687, San Francisco CA 94141. 40% for 5-49 titles, Volume three, Texas and More ($8.95 pb, 0-889-0722;
45% for 50+. BP/IN. Volume Two Hispanic Women: International Per-
spectives; and Volume 1 Looking East (The Puerto
THIRD WOMAN PRESS Rican Issue are also available.
Founded on a shoestring in 1980 with the inten- Third Woman’s books include the lesbian, erotic
tion of “inventing ourselves,” Third Woman Press The Margarita Poems by Luz María Umpierre-
gathers and publishes the voices of Chicanas/ Latinas Herrera ($5.95 pb, 0-943-219- 027); My Wicked
and Third World Women “to give substance, weight Wicked Ways, poetry by Sandra Cisneros (author of
and solidity to our muted existence. If our lives have the award winning House on Mango Street) ($8.95 pb,
been led between the lines of patriarchy, Third Woman 0-943-219- 019); and Speak to Me From Dreams, poetry
Press has aimed to highlight that space.” Third by Barbara Brinson Curiel ($8.95 pb, 0-943-219-035).
Woman Press also publishes Third Woman Journal, an Standard bookstore discounts. Write to Norma
annual that gathers poetry, narrative, drama, creative Alarcón, Third Woman Press, Chicano Studies,
and critical essays, reviews, interviews and graphic Dwinelle Hall 3412, University of California, Berkeley
art by Chicanas/Latinas and Third World Women. CA 94720.
The current issue of Third Woman is subtitled The
TRIVIA
QUETESH... > vav] n < m D m Trivia 13 and Trivia 14 are a special two-part
series inspired by the Third International Feminist
Book Fair in Montreal. Trivia 13 — Memory/
Transgression: Women Writing in Quebec features
writers such as Nicole Brossard, Michèle Causse, and
Gail Scott, whose work is based on an understanding
of language as irreducibly political and work on lan-
NUT...SESHAT... guage as a form of political action. Trivia 14 — Lan-
guage/Difference: Writing in Tongues addresses the
ways in which particular cultural traditions and his-
tories shape women’s use of language and includes
essays by Jeannette Armstrong, Gloria Anzaldúa,
Susanne de Lotbinière-Harwood, and Lee Maracle.
Of particular interest to feminist booksellers will be
the essay “Cultural Robbery, Imperialism: Voices of
Native Women.” Together these two issues reflect the
NEW DESIGNS! DESIGNS INC. SJFANLdINIDS 8 AANIIMI H ROcN u VIltural diversity and radical experimentation of
FORMERLY JANE SIPE - JEWELER w fro om me n T’s r ivw ir ai ,t i Pn Og a Bs o x r e 6f 0le 6c , t e Nd . a At m t hh ee r s F t a i Mr. A $ 5 0. 10 00 5. 9 .O r Id Ne r &BP
Write or Call for Catalog
Jane Iris Designs,Inc. Dept. FBN, VOLCANO PRESS
P.O. Box 608, Graton, Ca. 95444 In October Volcano will release Women’s Health
(707) 823-5687 Perspectives**, the first volume of a new annual re-
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:16 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
GOOD NEWS!
Exclusively from:
view, edited by Carol J. Leppa and Connie Miller. This THE WOMEN’S PRESS/Canada*
volume will identify and describe the available litera- The 1990 Everywoman’s Almanac comes in both
ture that emphasizes women as active and know- spiral binding as well as the ultra-sturdy sewn bind-
ledgeable participants in their own health care and ing. This year’s almanac looks at solidarity work with
which connects health care information with the qu- women in other countries. 15,000 copies of this calen-
ality of life. 450 sources are described in detailed, dar sold last year. $9.95 pb, 0-88961-136-X. $10.95 spi-
evaluative annotations accompanied by an additional ral bound, 0-88961-137-8.
300 bibliographic citations. Topics include access to In September The Women’s Press will publish
health information, mental health, body image, alco- S.P. Likes A.D., an adolescent novel by Catherine
hol and drugs, sexuality, reproductive health, child- Brett (Things Just Aren't the Same) about Stephanie
bearing, the menstrual cycle, health of older women who is trying to complete her dinosaur sculpture
and women as health care providers. $14.95 pb, 0- while dealing with her attraction to Anne ($6.95 pb,
912078-85-5. Volcano Press books are no longer dis- 0-88961-142-4); A Cow, A Cake And A Red Canoe**
tributed by Publishers Group West, but may be by Pamela Wolfe, a picture book for kids in which
ordered from Volcano (PO Box 270, Volcano CA Tamara and her grandpa do laundry together and find
95689), BP & IN. Learning to Live Without Violence all sorts of things in the laundry basket ($4.95 pb,
must be ordered direct from Volcano. 0-88961-140-8); and The Future of Human Reproduc-
WIRE/WOMEN’S INTERNATIONAL RE- ct ii ao ln , * * le ge ad l,it e md o rb ay l C anh dr i s pt oin lie t i cO alv e r imal pl, l i cl ao to ik oi nn sg f a ot r t wh oe m s eo n-
SOURCE EXCHANGE with respect to reproductive technology ($15.95 pb,
WIRE'’s new pamphlets include Feminism in Sri 0-88961-132-7). Up & Doing: Canadian Women and
Lanka: 1975-1985 ($1.00), Some Thoughts on the Left Peace edited by Janice Williamson and Deborah Gor-
and the “Woman Question” in South Asia ($1.00), ham has been rescheduled for October. In Up and
Zina: The Hudood Ordinance and Its Implications Doing writers, activists and historians look at issues
for Women in Pakistan ($1.00), Women of Sahara: A pertinent to the peace movement. $15.95 pb, 0-388961-
Model of Self-Reliance ($2.30), (Selections From) 130-0.
And Still They Dance: Women, War and the Struggle The Women’s Press has two author tours
for Change in Mozambique ($1.80), (excerpts) From scheduled for August: Marlene Nourbese (Harriet’s
Don’t Be Afraid, Gringo ($1.00) and Reproductive Daughter) will be in Toronto, Winnipeg and Vancou-
Choice in Cuba and El Salvador ($2.50). 40% discount ver. Gail Scott (Spaces Like Stairs) will be in Montreal,
for bookstores. WIRE, 475 Riverside Dr., Room 570, Toronto, Winnipeg, Edmonton, Vancouver and Vic-
NY NY 10115. toria. The Women’s Press, 229 College St. #204,
67 September /October 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:16 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Toronto ONT 5T 1R4. Distributed in Canada and the
U.S. by University of Toronto Press. BP & IN.
WORD WEAVERS
O. sbe al Spirited Lesbians: Lesbian Desire as Social
y ci Action by Nett Hart “ex pposlsiobrilietises fworh saocti al iatct i oni s by t eon g agailntge ra w otrhlde
k pL . tsh bati iains s bcereloatvuerdes . aWndha t w wee ibnr in igt t oa r teh isa m woonrlgd iist so u rwseellvle-sloved
loved as Lesbians, life-loving/woman-loving crea-
tures. As these loved creatures we naturally move
toward balance with the natural world. The changes
9) . . 1 O; . we make from love, not guilt, fully enact our life
mmn to mMmmMmnN values. The rhythmic, thoughtful text reads as a
long affirmation of what it is to be Lesbian in a
f ' ™ woman-loving world." Nett Hart writes “But Can
m anf cłions / She Type," FBN's column about the issues raised in
the course of feminist publishing and bookselling.
$9.95 pb, 0-9615605- 1-7.
Word Weavers’ publishing statement reads: “We
are proud to be Lesbian and to offer Lesbian-positive
images in our publications. We believe by turning our
AÀ U : n datutee n ltoivoen tthoa t L eissb iaamnso n wge u ms. a kEea c hv i saibfflei r msealfti-olnov eo f a n Lde s bthiaen
reality engenders more of the same. When we honor
Fall Color ourselves as Lesbians we create a context for the self-
love of all Lesbians. We remember, explore, record
G reet ı.n gC a: dw h £at n iet Wis o rwde Wase a va e rLse,s b Biaonx p8e7o4p2l,e Mhianvne e acpoomlies MtoN k n55o4w0.8”.
CALENDARS
There is a Women in the Martial Arts calendar for
If you haven't received t1 h9 a9 t0 . i sI 'v se t ro ikn il ny g .s e Ie tn f a e a tp uh ro et so c to wpy el v o e f d t ifh fe e r f el nie tr , w ob mut e n even
my free color brochure, martial artists representing many different styles. The
| cover photo is by Morgan Gwenwald. Profits benefit
write or call me NOW. the National Women’s Martial Arts Federation and the
Pacific Association of Women. Show your warrior
spirit and support women in the martial arts! $8.95.
Diana J. Genchi Bookstore terms not sent. Make checks out to “Calen-
dar.” Order from Martial Arts Calendar, c/o Karate-
19832 Henshaw Street women’s School, 12804 Venice Blvd., Mar Vista CA
Woodland Hills, CA 91364 90066.
The Dyke Sex Calendar 1990 produced by Dykes
(81 8) 992-0426 on the Wall Productions in Vancouver is guaranteed
to please some and offend others. Lingerie and leather,
cigarettes, handcuffs, punk aesthetics, dildoes and
September /October 1989 68 Volume 12 Number 3
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:16 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
make-up interspersed with the odd “pure and whole- women the information we many need to take abor-
some” couple — there's something for everyone to tion techniques into our own hands. No Going
disapprove of. It’s also well produced, multi-cultural, Back also includes historical footage on the anti-
multi-racial, includes safe-sex imagery (rubber abortion and pro-choice movements, as well as a
gloves), tri-lingual (French, Spanish & English), in- self-help group demonstrating menstrual extrac-
cludes Canadian, U.S., Spanish, and Jewish Holidays, tion. As of August, the video has sold several
includes sober dykes and clean-and-sober scenes, a bit hundred copies throughout the U.S. and Canada. 28
of written erotica and a lot of good humor. The pro- minutes, $25.00. Bookstore discount not indicated.
ducers write, “We are not sure, but this may be the first FFWHC, 1043 University Ave. #169, San Diego CA
lesbian sex calendar produced in Canada. This is sig- 92103. 213-930-2512.
nificant for Canadian bookstores and Canadian les-
bians, because we often do not have access to Out in Suburbia by Pam Walton was voted the
American made materials on lesbian sexuality due to Best Documentary at the San Francisco Inter-
harassment by Canadian border guards/customs. national Lesbian and Gay Film Festival this sum-
The photographers and models appearing in the cal- mer. It’s an upbeat video combating homophobia
endar are mostly local dykes from Vancouver and by spotlighting eleven suburban women who
surrounding areas, although some are from other speak honestly, with amusement and with candor,
parts of Canada and from Washington state. It was about their lives as lesbians. Insightful, well edited,
printed at Press Gang Printers, a feminist, worker and well crafted. 28 minutes. VHS. $75.00 per copy,
controlled collective print shop in Vancouver.” $12.95, $30 per copy with a ten tape minimum. Write for
Distributed in Canada by Dykes on the Wall Produc- more realistic bookstore discounts and /or distribu-
tions, #4-1244 East 8th Ave., Vancouver BC B5T 1V3 tors. Order from Pam Walton, Box 391025, Moun-
(Call 604-875-9112 or 604-874-2151 for terms; dis- tain View CA 94039. 415-960-3414.
tributed in the U.S. by Inland.
Lesbian Tongues: Lesbians Talk about Life,
Love, and Sex interviews JoAnn Loulan, JEB/Joan
VIDEOS Biren, Joan Nestle, Barbara Grier, Jewell Gomez, Lois
Naiad Press is now distributing Before Weaver, Peggy Shaw, Donna McBride, Minnie Bruce
Stonewall, Greta Schiller and Andrea Weiss’s excel- Pratt, Deanie Williams, Betty Hollowell, Evin Evans
lent decade-by-decade history of lesbianism and and Emily Davis. I found many of the interviews to be
homosexuality in America from 1920 to the contem- interesting, and was glad to have the work of many of
porary movement. $29.95. these women — writers, photographers, publishers,
dairy goat farmers — documented on tape, but while
No Going Back, produced by the Federation of the producers must have had a clear sense of over-
Feminist Women’s Health Centers (FFWHC) offers view, as a viewer I wasn't sure what it was. Both
women information on menstrual extraction, a 20- Lesbian Tongues and Out in Suburbia remind me of
year old safe, simple, low-tech procedure that can be early lesbian journals saying “We're here and life is
used as an early abortion technique. FFWHC believes good!” in video formats. 90 minutes, $29.95. VHS &
that woman have a right to know what options are Beta. 30% bookstore discount.
available to us if the Supreme Court restricts or over- From Pop Video, PO Box 60862, Washington DC
turns a women’s legal right to abortion and offers 20039. Also distributed by Naiad. O
Volume 12 Number 3 69 September /October 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:16 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
SDA as ME
8 Holy Days For Lesbians
1. Hallowmas, October 31st
A time of looking backward to one’s ancestors,
and peering into the future through divination.
2. Winter Solstice, December 21st
Itis a time to celebrate the birth of the sun as the
days lengthen and light waxes.
3. Candlemas, February 2nd
In this festival the participants burn a straw
effigy to bury winter and waken the sleeping
giant.
4. Spring Equinox, N March 21st
Bonfires often mark this night that celebrated
the full return of spring and the earth's budding
vegetation.
mazon QUEENS * 5. May Eve, May 1st
wusu A celebration of fertility and abundance that is
CO c 22 M El ING IN NOVEMBER s 6t . i ll M is de se un m min e rt 'sh e E vm e,a y Jpo ul ne e d 2a 1n sc te.
. s earth's annual lThief lonege.st day, it is a turning point in the
“Lesbian Holy Days” is just one of the hun-
dreds of lists of clever and enlightening lesbian 7. Lammas, August 1st
trivia compiled by syndicated columnist Dell A celebration of the goodness of the earth as
Richards. Fun facts like uppity women who | seen in the grain harvest of bread and wine.
were called lesbians (but probably weren't) are
sure to amuse and make Lesbian Lists great 8. Samhain, September 21st
entertainment and an ideal gift. An ancient rite of praising the goddess for a
bountiful and abundant life.
ISBN 1-55583-163-X, $8.95, trade paperback.
To order: Place orders directly through the address below, by calling 617-542-5679, or FAX
the order to us at 617-542-9189. New accounts should prepay half the amount of their first
order. Our entire book list is also available from Inland and Bookpeople. Selected titles are
available from Ingram and Golden-Lee.
ALYSON PUBLICATIONS *• 40 PLYMPTON STREET • BOSTON, MA 02118
September /October 1989 70 Volume 12 Number 3
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:16 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Compiled by Carol Seajay include this and his more recent work Dry Lips
Oughta Move to Kapuskasing ($9.95 pb, 0-920079-55-
January, February, June or July by Helen Fogwell 5, Oct.), the sequel to The Rez Sisters ($9.95 pb, 0-
Porter was one of the “finds” of this issue. Published 920079-44-X) which focuses on the men in Highway’s
in Canada by Breakwater, it’s the tale of a somewhat mythological Wasaychigan Hill Reserve. Highway’s
bookish fifteen/sixteen year old teenager who has quest is to dispel the symbols that white society has
mixed feelings about the boy-craziness sweeping her conferred on Native people — laziness, alcoholism,
friends until she, too, finds herself in the throes of first racism — and replace them with icons of traditional
attraction and passion — and pregnant. The novel Indian spirituality — such as Nanabush, the trickster.
takes Heather through decision-making, her own
compromise with the law requiring parental permis-
sion to have an abortion, the abortion itself and the
days immediately following. It’s an excellent book
about values, making choices, and coming to terms
with oneself and the larger world. The relationships
between and among the women in her working-class,
single-parented family are well described and realistic
while presenting a world where women do, essen-
tially, come through for each other. Highly recom-
mended for both teens and for health care workers
dealing with teenagers. There's also enough of a real- Taking Our Time/Pergamon Press
istic look at alcohol use among teens and adults to But it turns out that Fifth House has a number of
justify a place in a teens-and-alcohol section. January, other books of interest to feminist bookstores.
February, June or July won the 1988 Young Adult Achimoona, which means “stories” in Cree, is a col-
Canadian Book Award. 40% for 5+. Sales reps but no lection of stories for children by eight Native writers.
distributors. Breakwater, PO Box 2188, St. John’s, ($12.95 pb, 0-920079-16-4, color illustrations.)
Newfoundland A1C 6E6, Canada. Madeleine & The Angel, a novel by ex-bookseller
Jacqueline Dumas (Aspen Books, Edmonton, 1978-
Fifth House is a Canadian publishing company 1985), follows Pauline’s attempts to find a truth for
with a commitment to publishing Native writers. The herself by remembering the events of her childhood,
Rez Sisters, the first in a series of plays celebrating the the violence of her father and complicitous mother
culture of contemporary Native Canadians by Tom- and by exploring her family’s pathology and the shift-
son Highway, was the first of their books that I found. ing allegiances that maintained it. In doing so Pauline,
It’s a powerful and moving portrayal of seven women finally, against the odds, begins to heal herself and to
from a reserve attempting to beat the odds by winning create a new life for her daughter. $12.95 pb, 0-920079-
at bingo. “Hilarious, shocking, mystical and power- 48-2. Double Bond is an anthology of Canadian
ful.” Stores that stock fiction by men will want to prairie women’s fiction edited by Caroline Heath.
Volume 12 Number 3 71 September /October 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:16 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
($10.95 pb, 0-920079-09-1; $19.95 c], -11-3.) Luna and Street E. Saskatoon, Saskatchewan S7K 5S8, Canada.
The Gates of the Sun by Sharon Butala are companion Distributed inCanada by University of Toronto,inthe
novels set firmly on the Canadian prairies. Luna U.S. by Bookslinger.
($12.95 pb, 0-920079-36-9) gives us the lives of ordi-
nary woman who live in the macho-studded ranching 250 pieces from one of the finest collections of
country and keep community together. “With these Indian artefacts and relics in the U.S. are exquisitely
women Butala pays tribute to the women of this harsh reproduced in The Spirit of Native America: Beauty
land and probes the essence of what it is to bea woman and Mysticism in American Indian Art. Anna Lee
and explores what really lies between men and Walters’ authoritative text removes these beautiful
woman... At the heart of Luna is a creation myth that and mysterious objects from the category of
will electrify every reader." The Gates of the Sun museum relics and places them in their proper
($12.95 pb, 0-920079-20-2) was a 1984 nominee for the tribal perspectives. She helps readers understand
Books in Canada Best First Novel Award. that art and beauty are integral to traditional Indian
ER ways and breathes life into these works by explain-
ing the motivation, source of inspiration, skills and
purpose of the artisans who created them. In tradi-
In October Fifth House will publish Some- tional Indian thinking there is no separation be-
thing to Live For, Something to Reach For: The tween art and life or between what is beautiful and
Students of a Native Survival School Speak Out what is functional. It’s a beautiful book and quite a
($16.95 pb, 0-920079-52-0) a collection of photo- bargain in paperback. Consider stocking it for the
graphs by Becky Mackie James with stories. “A holiday season. 50+ pages of color plates. Anna Lee
touching and ultimately optimistic book about Walters is also the author of Sun Is Not Merciful
what it means to be young and Native in Canadian (Firebrand Books) Ghost Singer and thirty other pub-
urban society.” Fifth House Publishers, 20-36th lications. She is the Director of Navajo Community
ARTE PUBLICO PRESS
Across the Great River, by Irene Beltrán Hernández. 1989. 128 pages.
ISBN 0-934770-96-4 LC 89-289 $8.50
Across the Great River is Irene Beltrán Hernández’ first novel, which chronicles, through the
eyes of a young girl, a Mexican family's illegal entry into the United States. The family's
experiences with labor smugglers, a folk healer, rape and violence are all told with the innocence
and directness of a young girl who must face the harshness and reality of life at an early age.
The Wedding, by Mary Helen Ponce. 1989. 200 pages.
ISBN 0-934770-97-2 LC 89-6933 $8.50
The Wedding, by Mary Helen Ponce, is a hilarious, heart-warming glimpse of Mexican American
blue collar subculture, its predilection for low-riding cars and kitsch, all seen through the ironically
rose-colored lenses of a bride-to-be who is already in "a family way." Ponce details the social
relationships, the physical and psychological preparations for her blushing protagonist's wedding
in brush strokes that are so incisive that they cut through the layers of cultural tradition to reveal
what we always guessed was there: customs and mores that entrap women and hinder their
intellectual development. Ponce is the author of Taking Control, a collection of stories about
women struggling to gain control of their lives.
Arte Público Press, UH, Houston, TX 77204-2090
Phone Orders: 713-749-4768
Write for free catalog.
September /October 1989 72 Volume 12 Number 3
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:16 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
College Press. Chronicle Books. $16.95 pb, 0-87701- Doors by Meena Alexander are set in Kerala, the
515-5; $30.00 cl, 0-87701-651- 8. BP. southern-most state of India and offer a portrait of
childhood, motherhood, of India, of New York, and of
Naming Our Destiny: New and Selected Poems her life both past and present in rich and poignant
by June Jordan gathers together poetry from nearly 20 detail. $8.00 pb, 0-89410-554-X. Our Sun Will Rise by
years, including 50 poems published in the U.S. for the Amelia Blossom House is a collection of poems by a
first time. In Naming Our Destiny Jordan speaks out native South African (now living in Kentucky) depict-
against racism, oppression, and dispossession. Earlier ing and interpreting the tensions of her homeland.
this year the Virago Press editions of Jordan’s essays $10.00 pb, 0-89410-643-0. Paper Boats presents a
(Lyrical Campaigns) and poems (Moving Towards Home) unique and highly original voice. Hilary Tham, born
moved directly to the top of London’s Alternative in Kelang Malasia draws upon rich Asian cultures —
Bestsellers list (non-fiction). $12.95 pb, 0-938410-84-9; Chinese, Malay, and Indian — as well as Anglo-
$24.95 cl, 0- 938410-83-0, October. Thunders Mouth Catholic, American and Judaic traditions to produce
Press, 54 Greene St., Suite 4S, NY NY 10013. Order an incisive, unsentimental poetry about her family,
from Consortium, IN or BP. her girlhood, the shock of puberty, the joy of giving
PQ birth and the pain of losing loved ones, and the on-
going wars in Southeast Asia. $8.00 pb, 0-89410-542-6.
A Lonely Woman by Michael Hillmann offers a por-
Two more Nawal El Saadawi novels have become trait and an analysis of the work of Forugh Farrokh-
available in the U.S. Memoirs of a Woman Doctor is zad, Iran's most popular twentieth-century poet and
a fictionalized account of a young Egyptian woman’s the most famous woman literary figure in Iranian
pursuit of the study of medicine, her brief marriage, history. $12.00 pb, 0-89410-544-2. L'Excisée by Evelyn
and successful career as a physician as well as her Accad is a lyrical, tragic novel dealing with the tradi-
growing understanding of injustice and hypocrisy in tional rite of excision still practiced in areas of the
society and that men are not gods as her mother Middle East and Africa. Set in Lebanon, Accad shows
taught her. $6.95 pb, 0-87286-223-2. City Lights Book- woman as prisoner, victim, and target of the male’s
sellers & Publishers, 261 Columbus Ave., San Fran- age long preoccupation with domination and fear of
cisco CA 94133. Distributed by Subterranean (PO Box women. Translated from the French by David Bruner.
10233), BP & IN. The Circling Song is said to be El $8.00 pb, 0-89410- 596-5. Women’s Voice in Latin
Saadawi’s most original novel. With precise and hyp- American Literature by Naomi Lindstrom focuses on
notic intensity, she pursues the conflicts of sex, class, the works of Clarice Lispector, Rosario Castellanos,
gender and military violence deep into the psyche in Marta Lynch and Silvina Bullrich. It also includes
this tale of brutally parted twins searching, finding, bibliographies and a discussion of feminist criticism.
and losing each other. $9.95 pb, 0-86232-817-9; $19.95 $16.00 pb, 0-89410-294-8.
c], 0-86232-816-0. Zed Press. Distributed in the U.S. by
Humanities Press International, IN & BP. EER
Three Continents Press both publishes and dis- Bookstores that stock novels by men might want
tributes books by/about the peoples of Africa, the to consider Maiba by Russell Soaba. Set in New
Caribbean, and the Middle East, Asia and Latin Amer- Guinea, Maiba is a novel about a young woman who
ica including many books in translation. Many of the grows up from a neglected childhood to acquire a
poems and prose pieces in House of a Thousand wisdom which enables her to hold her people together
Volume 12 Number 3 73 September /October 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:16 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
in her family when her parents become separated
NEW CANADIAN while illegally crossing the border into the United
States. The family’s experiences with labor smugglers,
WOMEN WRITERS a folk healer, rape, violence, and the authorities are
told with the innocence and directness of a young girl
llJoan Crate: BREATHING WATER who must face the harshness of life at an early age.
W the es t f rC ao ga mst e n I tn sd i oan f am y yt oh uo nl gog y m oh te hl ep rs ’ s t o li f c eo . n Ane c nt ov- R r Mee aac rdo yem r sm H. ee $ ln e8d n.e 5 d 0 P of p no b cr , e 0y (- To 9 au 3 kn 4 ig 7 n 7 g 0a - d C9u 6 ol -t n4s t. r oa Ts l) h ew “ ie sWl l e a da s d h i n im lg ara t iobu uyr se ,
el of sexuality, irony, tenderness and wisdom. heart-warming glimpse of Mexican American blue
280 pages ISBN: 0-920897-00-0 collar subculture with its predilection for low-riding
IlMargaret Clarke:HEALING SONG cars and kitsch as seen through the ironically rose-
"Certainly convincing in showing how much colored glasses of a bride-to-be who is already in ʻa
more significant a woman’s life can be when family way.’ Ponce cuts through the layers of cultural
she escapes from the domestic trap." (Winni- tradition to reveal what we already guessed was
peg Free Press) there: customs and mores that entrap women and
180 pages ISBN:0-920897-48-7 9h 3in 47d 7e 0r - 9 o 7u -r 0. i In Nt e l &le c t Bu Pa .l development.” $8.50 pb, 0-
Distributed by University of Toronto Press
NAE No. 310, 10359 Whyte Ave. Lumen has published two books that give Eng-
Edmonton, Alberta T6E 1Z9 lish readers access to the life and poetry of seventeenth
century feminist writer Sor Juana Inés de la Cruz. In
Reverse Thunder historian and biographer Diane
when the polar forces of tradition and modernization Ackerman recreates Sor Juana Inés de la Cruz and her
threaten to pull them apart. $8.00, 0-89410-414-4. intellectual milieu in a long Elizabethan poem /play.
Mother Comes of Age (La Civilisation, Ma Mère!) by $7.95 pb, 0-930829-09-3. Luis Harss, in Sor Juana’s
Driss Chraibi revolves around the theme of education Dream translates her work, places the writer and her
as emancipation. The first half of the novel, narrated work in both literary and historical context and pro-
by the younger son, begins as a portrait of a wife and vides the reader with information and insights that
mother in her mid-thirties trapped within Muslim glowingly illuminate Sor Juana's dark dreamscape.
custom. Through her sons’ gentle determined actions, $9.95 pb, 0-930829-07-7. Lumen, 446 West 20th St., NY
Mama begins to absorb the modern world and her NY 10011. Distributed by Sun & Moon Press, 6148
transformation begins. The elder son narrates the sec- Wilshire, Los Angeles CA. BP.
ond half in which she becomes a fighter in a war to
liberate women from domination and seclusion. $8 pb, The Children’s Book Press, publishers of bi-
0-89410-323-7. lingual, multi-cultural books for children, has three
Three Continents also does bibliographies such as new children’s books and three books on tape.
Bibliography of African Women Writers and Brother Anansi and the Cattle Ranch is a Ni-
Journalists and Bibliography of Women Writers caraguan tale of the triumph of wit over brute
From the Caribbean both by Brenda Berrian. strength. 0-89239-044-1. Uncle Nacho’s Hat is a tale
Write for a complete list of books published and for children about the difficulties of making
distributed by Three Continents, 1636 Connecticut changes and shaking off old habits. In this version
Ave. NW, Washington DC 20009, or call 202-332-3885. the wisdom it takes to make the change comes from
Uncle Nacho’s neice Ambrosia. 0-89239-043-3. Sub-
Arte Público Press has two new titles of particular stance abuse — in this case sugar — plagues the
interest to feminist bookstores. Across the Great River children in Mr. Sugar Came to Town until Grandma
by Irene Beltrán Hernández’ is an exciting tale of a Lupe unmasks Mr. Sugar and reveals him to be an
young girl maturing and taking on the leadership role ugly villain. I'm not convinced that children read-
September /October 1989 74
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:16 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
ing the book will get the point, but it’s an excellent Flowering Women: Moontime for Kory by Mary
beginning for discussion. 0-89239-045-X. All three Dillon with Shinan Barclay is a (fantasy) story of a
books are bilingual Spanish and English with library girl's rites of passage into womanhood, dealing with
bindings and are priced at $12.95. Aekyung’s menstruation, sex, passion and pregnancy. In her in-
Dream (Korean and English), The Invisible Hunt-
ers (Spanish/English), The People Shall Continue first menstruation is magical and is honored by the
and The River that Gave Gifts are also available in wise women of her village. Surely other young girls
$12.95 library bindings. Three of the Children’s who read this story will come to their first blood with
Book Press titles, Mother Scorpion Country (0- a feeling of pleasure and satisfaction at having been
89239-037-9), The Adventures of Connie and born a woman. And for those of us whose initiation
Diego (0-89239-033-6), and The Invisible Hunters time was not properly expressed, Kory’s tale provides
(0-89239-0 36-0), are now available in bilingual healing for the young girl who still lives within us.” A
audiocassette with English on one side and Spanish bit limited, though, in that it assumes that all girls will
on the other. $8.95 each. Language Arts Through become mothers and heterosexual rather than cele-
Children’s Literature by Alma Flor Ada and brating these potentials or offering girls choices. A
Rosalma Zubizarreta is a teacher's guide for using stronger book might celebrate motherhood as a
Children’s Book Press multicultural, bilingual books wonderful option, rather than an expectation and
to help children develop critical thinking and creative would leave the choice of how and with whom to
expression. $8.95. 0-89239-046-8. Children’s Book express her sexuality up to the girl as she grows up.
Press, 5925 Doyle St. Suite U, Emeryville CA 94608. 56 pp, $7.95 pb, 0-945086-13-X. Sunlight Productions,
Distributed by The Talman Company, BP & IN. PO Box 1300, Sedona AZ 86336. 40% for 10+ books. BP.
Ì <
I am / We are: D Owned and operated by woren
Name D D R We oa mde er ns ’/ sb i sb tl uio dp ieh si l e ts eacher D C o a- no dw n med e n and run by women
Business Name DD WLib rir ta er rian I D/ W Fe e m a ir ne i s te s p fe icc tia il ol ny interested in:
Address D Bookseller D Lesbian fiction
C Pi ht oy n/ eS :tate/Zip DD D CP P ru er ab fil oi ts d sh wice a or l D D L F We e os mb mii na en nis ’t n o t sn h tu- ef doi r ic eyt i o a tn n itd spolitics
men D s s le
[M One Year - $50. Check enclosed. D Other DD HH eis at lto hry
[H One Year - $55. Bill us. Bookstores, Publishers, and Periodicals — D Women and work
[N Special Trial Offer Is your focus primarily: D Gay men’s literature
1/2 year - $25 Check enclosed. D Feminist D Peace and anti-nuke boks
D + $13 for international postage. D D G Ala ty ernative/political D D C Oh thil ed rren’s books
[D + $6 for Canadian postage. D General independent bookstore
75 September /October 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:16 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Long Awaited Pleasures: Women, Kids, &
Huckleberry Wine, Anne Cameron’s (Dreamspeaker,
Fall 1 98 a9 a at BANNED BOOKS Earth Witch and Daughters of Copper Woman long-
promised collection of new short stories, is a hefty (260
PP) volume offering seven stories of mostly working
class women, the occasional man and a goolieguy, a
personage from Celtic mythology. $12.95 pb, 0-
920080-5. Harbour Publishing, PO Box 219, Madeira
Park BC VON 2H0. BP & IN.
etta PE
Edited by Tee Corinne Taxi! is back in print. Helen Potrebenko’s analysis
of sexual and class warfare, of American and cor-
porate exploitation, and of urban poverty is, un-
fortunately, as relevant today as it was when Taxi! was
first published in 1975. Shannon, the novel’s wry cab-
driving heroine, should find as many friends and
Sugar With Spice September $8.95 readers in today’s world as she did in the late seventies
Kieran. After trying mainstream writing— everything when Taxi! raced through three printings.
from detective novels to TV scripts— Kieran has $11.95/Canada, $9.95/U.S, pb, 0-919573-89-4. New Star
turned her attention to creating her kind of stories. Books, 2504 York Ave., Vancouver BC V6K 1E3. BP & IN.
She’s tried to touch upon many of the challenges
t inh ta rt o da ur ce t oc ro ym m sho on r t t o s t ot ro yd ,a y t’s h el e s ab ui ta hn o. r I n s a ya sn : Wun eu ’vsu e a l all I've often heard Bobbie Louise Hawkins telling
been waltzed around by love and picked clean by stories (and reading in between the tales) in concert
love. Slice and dice of the heart. Spice and dykes with Terry Garthwaite and/or Rosalie Sorrels. She's
of the trousers. There are three dozen short stories. as funny and as serious in print as on the stage in My
Sex sequins dot the pages. Sweetness flavors and Own Alphabet, a collection of those same stories,
savors some of the happy-ending dreams. This was memories and essays published by Coffee House
not a collection meant to play roulette with a reader’s Press. $9.95 pb, 0-918273-52-8. Her novella One Small
sensibilities. I was compelled to intersperse the pale Saga, the story of a young American artist who mar-
with the plucky. I crave shock value, and I’m going ries a man she’s known for two weeks, is also available
tt ho r og ue gt h i t t, h eI tr eo aa rr se .d . 0 -W 93e 4 4 f 1o 1u -2n 4d - 7 ourselves laughing from Coffeehouse Press. $8.95 pb. CHP, 27 North
Intricate Passions October $8.95 Fourth St. Suite 400, Minneapolis MN 55401. Dis-
tributed by Bookslinger (213 East Fourth St., St. Paul
Edited by Tee Corinne. Erotic short fiction from twenty- MN 55101), BP & IN.
five authors, including: Paula Gunn Allen, Ní
A Wó hd ia tg ea hí on r, s eB e Cc ok cy h r B anir , t h Ca o, r bS eD ti ta ,n e T eB e o g Cu os r, i n C nh er , y Kst ao ts h, e rJ ino e On the academic side of smaller presses, Perga-
Davis, Carolyn Gage, La Verne Gagehabib, Rocky mon Press's Athene Series has been publishing a series
Gámez, Stephanie (C.S.) Henderson, Hannah Blue of wonderful feminist titles. Diana Russell’s Exposing
Heron, Willyce Kim, Linn Lane, Lee Lynch, Terri Nuclear Phallacies, a collection of articles looking at
de la Peña, Margaret Sloan-Hunter, Sabrina Sojourner, the socialized gender differences in the origin and
Valerie Taylor, Sherry Thomas, Pearl Time’sChild, perpetuation of the nuclear threat, will be essential
L. (Treth) Tretheway, and Kitty Tsui. Photo section reading for feminists working in the anti-nuclear
included. Photos by Tee Corinne. 0-934411-25-5 movement. $15.95 pb, 0-08-036475-6; $35.00 cl, 0-08-
BANnneD Books 036476-4. Dale Spender’s The Writing or the Sex? Or
is an imprint of Edward-William Publishing Company Why You Don’t Have to Read Women’s Writing to
(512) 282 # - S829 t02 o4, p4 P . O Oo. r rB o d x e1 r-3 s3 82 08 0 0 W, - 9A e5u lcs 0t oi -n m6, 0 eT 7 —X 1 7 8 F 476 A 04 %X d(5 i1 sc2 o) u n28 t8-1813 fK en mow al e I t a’ ns d N mo l aG eo o ld it e q ru ate ust ri eo .n s S h t eh e t a kdi ef sf e tr he en c e vs i e wb e t tw he ae tn the
difference lies in the response to the writing rather
September /October 1989 76
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:16 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
than in the writing itself and that men, having been in sexuality and lesbianism in the light of their respective
charge of according value to literature, have found the homoerotic attractions and homophobias and re-
contributions of their own sex to be “immeasurably claims key insights to offer a much more illuminating,
superior” and demands that literary cirticism take supportive interpretation. The second half of the book
into account the exploitative practices of men. $12.95 turns to theancient Greek culture where same-sex loving
pb, 0-08-033179-3; $27.50 cl, 0-08-033180-7. Radical was validated as part of everyone's normal eroticism.
Voices: A Decade of Feminist Resistance from Myths and Mysteries is lesbian / gay identified ("That we
Women’s Studies International Forum edited by Re- choose to call ourselves lesbians or gay men, that we decide
nate D. Klein and Deborah Lynn Steinberg (Preface by what this designation means to us, is itself a challenge to how
Dale Spender) constitutes a history of ideas within the same-sex loving has most often been defined in our culture.”)
women’s movement as it has developed over the last and, as such, is a pleasure and antidote to the homopho-
ten years. It includes articles on feminist ethics, a bia currently being published by some of the mainstream
feminist world view, female friendship, lesbian femi- publishers. Crossroad /Continuum, $22.95 cl, 0-8245-
nism, black feminism, and feminism and ageing. 0445-6. Other interesting titles from Crossroad /Con-
$14.50 pb, 0-08-036483-7; $33.95 cl, 0-08-036484-5. tinuum include the new expanded edition of The
Taking Our Time: Feminist Perspectives on Tem- Continuum Dictionary of Women’s Biography ($39.50,
porality edited by Frieda Johles Forman with Caoran 0-8264-0417-0) and Women and AIDS: A Practical
Sowton elegantly exposes the patriarchal nature of Guide For Those Who Help Others by Bonnie Lester.
linear constructions of time throughout history and $15.95 cl 0-8264-0501-0. Crossroad /Continuum, 370
shows how women rebel against these constructions Lexington, NY NY10017.
by creating our own rhythms reflecting a temporal PR
experience which includes the realities of childbirth,
social time, memory, and time of the imagination.
$14.95 pb, 0- 08-036477-2; $36.00 cl, 0- 08-036478-0. Crossing Press has a wonderful and extremely
The Recurring Silent Spring by H. Patricia Hynes rich Fall list for feminist bookstores.
honors Rachel Carson's work, her influence on To begin with, Crossing has the U.S. editions of
women working in science and the feminist critique Naming the Waves: Contemporary Lesbian Poetry
of science while moving from the “old” chemical pol- edited by Christian McEwen ($8.95 pb, 0-89594-370-0;
lution of the environment with pesticides to the “new” $23.95 cl, -371-9) and Out the Other Side: Contem-
hazards of the biotechnologies in agriculture and the porary Lesbian Writing edited by Christian McEwen
new reproductive technologies. This book illustrates and Sue O'Sullivan ($8.95 pb, 0-89594-363-8; $23.95 cl,
industry's, government's and science’s chilling pat- -364-6), both originally published by Virago in 1988.
tern of risk cover-up and pseudo-regulation of these Christian, while taking Valerie Miner’s “Issues in
technologies.$12.95 pb, 0-08-037116-7; $27.50 cl, 0-08- Contemporary Publishing Seminar” at Berkeley was
037117-5. Pergamon Press, Maxwell House, Fairview FBN’s first-ever publishing intern. So, for FBN, it’s a
Park, Elmsford NY 10523. double treat to have these books available in the U.S.
E To complete the circle, Crossing also has the U.S.
edition of Valerie Miner’s Trespassing and Other Sto-
ries published in Britain this spring by Methuen
Myths and Mysteries of Same-Sex Love by ($15.95 c], 0-89594- 389-1).
Christine Downing (The Goddess) re-examines Freud’s In the feminist anthologies department Crossing
and Jung’s psychoanalytical perspectives on homo- has Memories and Visions: Women’s Fantasy and
September /October 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:16 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Science Fiction edited by FBN’s own Science Fiction Gertrude Stein an anthology of essays by Judy Grahn
editor Susanna Sturgis. Plan on it being a bestseller. ($10.95 pb, 0-89594-380-8; $253.95 cl, - 381-6).
($10.95 pb, 0-89594-391-3; $25.95 cl, -392-1.) Irene 40% for 5-24 books, 42% for 25-49, 43% for 50-99,
Zahava (Smedley’s Bookstore) has two anthologies 44% for 100+. The Crossing Press, PO Box 1048, Free-
coming out this fall. The Second Womansleuth An- dom CA 95019. BP & IN.
thology ($6.95 pb, 0-89594-367-0; $20.95 c], -368-9) and
Finding Courage: Writings by Women, a collection of Alyson Press has only one lesbian title on their
twenty stories both fiction and autobiographical that Fall list. Lesbian Lists by Dell Richards offers a fun-
celebrate everyday acts of courage. ($9.95 pb, 0-89594- filled collection of trivia and lists. The Gay Book of Lists
378- 6; $23.95 c], -379-4.) was a best-seller in many bookstores last year, and
Alyson hopes that Lesbian Lists will do likewise. Lists
EF ER include banned lesbian books, actresses who've
played lesbian parts, switch-hitters, uppity women
Paperback Thriller is a new WomanSleuth Mys- who were called lesbians (but probably weren't),
tery by Lynn Meyer mixing medical ethics and lesbians who've passed as men, lesbian rulers, les-
murder ($8.95 pb, 0-89594-386-7; $20.95 c], -387-5). bians in the fight against AIDS and more. $8.95 pb,
The Fablesinger by Judith Woolcock Colombo is 1-55583- 163-X.
science fiction in which a girl without confidence Feminist bookstores may also want to stock
develops into a powerful woman, able to control the Keys to Caring: Assisting Your Gay and Lesbian
very forces of nature itself in a fantasy world depicting Clients edited by Robert J. Kus ($12.95 pb, 0-932870-
the richness of Caribbean magic and myth ($8.95 pb, 86-X) and The Caravaggio Shawl, Samuel
0-89594-376-X; $19.95 cl, -377-8). Steward’s second Gertrude Stein and Alice B. Toklas
In non-fiction, Crossing offers A Low-Tech Ap- mystery ($8.95 pb, 1-55583-152-4). Finale: Stories of
proach to Infertility edited by Margot Edwards ($10.95 Mystery and Suspense, edited by Michael Nava,
pb, 0-89594-384-; $23.95 cl, -385-9) and Really Reading includes a number of interesting stories, only one of
$12.00 paper 292 pp.
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:16 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
4r essie” York artist in Texas painting a fresco on the town
church's walls who finds reason to struggle with her
lesbian identity problems in the person of the local
priest's housekeeper. $8.95 pb, November. Liberty
Press, PO Box 50421, Austin TX 78763. IN & BP.
Donna Niles, book buyer at Lammas/DC recom-
Banned Books’ Fall list includes two lesbian titles mends Hispanic Women in the United States: A
and a lesbian-inclusive novel by Stan Leventhal. Puerto Rican Woman’s Perspective, 42 pp, $3.00. 40%
Sugar With Spice by Kieran “touches upon many of bookstore discount. Order from Lourdes Miranda, 818
the challenges that are common to today’s 18th St. NW. Suite 1020, Washington DC 20006.
lesbian....This is not a collection meant to play roulette ER
with a reader's sensibilities. I was compelled to inter-
sperse the pale with the plucky. I crave shock value
and I'm going to get it, I roared” (from the introduc- The Subjective Side of Politics is a 25 page pam-
tion) ($8.95 pb, 0-934411-24-7, September) and Intri- phlet by Margo Adair (Working Inside Out: Tools for
cate Passions edited by Tee Corinne, erotic short Change) and Sharon Howell directed to white, middle
fiction from twenty-five lesbian writers ($8.95 pb, 0- class people. It looks at the “invisible” barriers that
934411-25-5, October). Faultlines by Stan Leventhal block the ability to develop trust across differences —
is the only title of the Fall list I've seen. It includes at what specifically happens in interactions that sepa-
a rare cast of characters — Thad who’s straight and rates Whites from people of color, middle- from work-
Black, Kevin who’s white and gay, Weslya who is ing-class people, able bodied people from the
mostly straight and her ex who falls in love with disabled, heterosexual people from lesbians and
Kevin, plus an assortment of lesbians (including an gay men. The authors believe that any movement
Asian fire-fighter dyke) and sundry bad guys. for change today must be multi-cultural and that a
There's a message beneath this suspenseful, major obstacle in building alliances that facilitate
humorous novel — survival depends on unity. change is (white, middle class) people’s inability to
($8.95 pb, 0-934411-26-3, October). Maybe it’s time look at the impact of privilege on their everyday
to start a section placed somewhere between lesbian lives and examines why, despite their best inten-
literature and gay men’s fiction for books that in- tions, they continually find themselves duplicating
clude both??? Do I hear the 90's coming? the dominant society's communities — perpetuating
I'm also intrigued by Gay Tales and Verses from sexism, racism, classism, ___ism. The Subjective
the Arabian Nights, the collected gay excerpts from Side of Politics presents a framework for looking at
the classic. Reclaimed and unexpurgated literature power and power dynamics and offers concrete
($7.95 pb, 0-934411-27-1, October). strategies for change. $5.00, 0-929098-23-4. Dis-
Intricate Passions and Gay Tales will be listed in tributed to the trade by BP.
the Mother Jones’Christmas Catalog. 45% discount for
10+ books. Banned Books, Number 292, PO Box 33280, The Holy Book of Women’s Mysteries is back in
Austin Tx 78764. IN & BP. print. Wingbow (the publishing arm of Bookpeople)
hasB repuPblishe d Z . B&udapes t's clasIsic N in a s.in gle o
Liberty Press’ Fall title is Send My Roots Rain by volume with new material. $11.95 pb, 0- 914728-67-9.
Ibis Gomez-Verga, a lesbian novel featuring a New
79 September /October 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:16 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
PEN “EContSrov ers ial N and cEonviEncing.”*
Myths and Mysteries
of Same-Sex Love
by CHRISTINE DOWNING
In her most provocative work to date, the
author of The Goddess, Journey Through
Menopause and Psyche’ Sister, explores
the historical myths of homosexual desire as told by Sappho and Plato and
challenges the theories of Freud and Jung as she shares her personal vision of
same-sex love. $22.95
“Downing is most effective when writing about her own experiences, offering
‘ freshly perceived insights and finely tuned sensitivity.”
—Kirkus Reviews*
Recent and Recommended
From Continuum’s Collection of Women’s Studies
Maureen T. Reddy
SISTERS IN CRIME Carol J. Adams
Feminism and the Crime Novel THE SEXUAL POLITICS OF MEAT
$17.95 Hardcover A Feminist Vegetarian Critical Theory
Nominee for 1989 Edgar Allan Poe Award $22.95 Hardçover Coming in January
Winner of the 1989 Continuum
Women’s Studies Award
Jennifer S. Uglow, editor
THE CONTINUUM DICTIONARY Christine Downing
OF WOMEN’S BIOGRAPHY JOURNEY THROUGH MENOPAUSE
New Expanded Edition A Personal Rite of Passage
$39.50 Hardcover Illustrated $9.95 Paperback Illustrated
The Continuum Publishing Company
370 Lexington Avenue, New York, NY 10017 800-638-3030
September /October 1989 80 Volume 12 Number 3
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:16 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
R:
+ NÈ II l IT
PARTI politics are of interest to both art and women’s studies
By Sandi Torkildson students and teachers.
I have done most of the Fall buying for the store l
by now and found not many “I can hardly wait” books
but lots of great titles from the last year coming out in
paper. Since many feminist bookstores sell many more One remarkable book from Harper & Row this
paperbacks than cloth titles this could be a good sea- Fall is the lavishly illustrated treasury of prehistoric
son for us. symbols that recovers the peaceful], long-lost world of
One book I am looking forward to is the new Goddess-worshipping cultures. In The Language of
Annie Dillard, The Writing Life, (Harper & Row, the Goddess, Marija Gimbutas ($49.95 cl, 0062503561,
$15.95 c], 0060161566, Sept.) in which she describes the 416 pp., 500 2-color illus., Sept.) decodes the symbolic
working life of a writer. She reveals vivid and ironic language of prepatriarchal Europe and establishes the
encounters at the desk and recounts what the actual existence of Goddess-worshipping, earth-centered, egal-
process of writing feels like. itarian and nonviolent cultures from 7000 B.C. to 3500
Harper & Row is also offering a new biography B.C. There is a special pre-publication offer of 49% dis-
of Georgia O'Keeffe, a woman who helped redefine count on two or more copies per ship-to location.
modern American art as well as women’s social roles. The Once and Future Goddess by Elinor Gadon
Georgia O'Keeffe: A Life by Roxana Robinson ($25 weaves together the images of prehistoric Goddesses
cl, 0060159650, Oct.) is the first major biography to with the images of contemporary women artists like
draw upon many sources closed during O’Keeffe’s Frida Kahlo, Judy Chicago and Georgia O'Keeffe
lifetime. Robinson, an art historian and novelist, (Harper & Row, simultaneous cloth and paper, $34.95
writes knowledgeably about her art and movingly c], 0062503464, $22.50 pb, 0062503545, 352 pp., 200
about her life. b&w photos, 50 color photos, Sept.). Gadon demon-
strates the powerful connections between ancient and
contemporary art and explores the meaning of the
Goddess in the current spirituality and feminist move-
ments.
Another art book published by Harper & Row Another interesting book with a spiritual bent is
this Fall is a collection of essays on 19th Century art Plain & Simple: A Journey to the Amish by Sue
by Linda Nochlin entitled The Politics of Vision Bender (Harper & Row, $16.95 cl, 0062500589, Oct.).
($25.95 c], 0064358542, 60 b&w illus., Nov.). I mention This is the story of an urban Californian who went to
her book since she is the author of Women, Art and study Amish quilts but discovered that the Amish
Power and Other Essays ($9.95 pb, 0064301834, Nov.) outlook and values healed her fragmented life.
which Harper will publish in paperback this Fall. Radical Spirits: Spiritualism and Women’s
Nochlin is a pioneer in feminist art history and her Rights in 19th Century America by Ann Braude.
essays on the interaction of art, society, ideas and Another book that looks at paraiìlels between religious
81 September /October 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:16 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
movements and the women’s movement (Beacon 0807079081, Oct.) is a collection of writings by and
Press, $22.95 c1, 0807075002, Oct.). Braude explores the about lesbian and gay Jews who have remained in
19th Century spiritualism movement and its impact Judaism. This collection of personal testimonies, es-
on contemporary social movements including says, oral histories, and liturgies, some by famous
women’s rights, abolition, marriage reform and health writers like Judith Plaskow, Eric Rofes, and Evelyn
reform. Torton Beck, speaks to the possibilities of bringing
Two anthologies from Harper & Row focus on the lesbian and gay experience to bear on Jewish history
lives of people transforming societies today. Lives of and traditions, family and community life.
Courage: Women for a New South Africa by Diana Lenore Walker, the author of Battered Woman has
Russell (Basic Books, $22.95 c1, 0405041396, Oct.) offers a follow-up work coming out this Fall entitled Terri-
the first-hand accounts of 24 women activists, some fying Love: Why Battered Women Kill and How
famous, others not, wives, mothers, students, black Society Responds (Harper & Row, $18.95 cl,
and white, Indian and Coloured, young and old, who 0060161604, Oct.).
fight Apartheid in their daily lives. Harper & Row’s lead paperback title this Fall is
Twice Blessed: On Being Lesbian, Gay & Jewish Tracks by Louise Erdich ($8.95 pb, 0060972459, Sept.).
by Christie Balka and Andy Rose ($22.95 cl, Other fiction coming in paperback includes a collec-
S olidly researched, passionately argued,
this groundbreaking book traces the rise
of patriarchy in Western culture through
the lens of Irish history.
Mary Condren charts the shift
from an egalitarian, woman-
centered society and exposes the
legacy of repressive, warrior-
New Voice. centered values embedded in
ABN, the state and in the Catholic
Church today.
NRG
Paperback, $13.95
See C o o rIn n t pa Pc ht Ao n: y e 8 o 0u T0r O- 9 LH 8L2a r - F4p 3Re 7r E7 E :& 8 R 00o -w 2 4 2r -e 7p 7r 3e 7sentative
r1 Harper & Row
| San Francisco
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:16 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Í J
tion of short stories by Joyce Carol Oates, The Assig- deinstitutionalization of mental patients has left many
nation ($7.95 pb, 0060972467, Sept.) and Paula Sharp's homeless and living on the streets simply because
impressive first novel, The Woman Who Was Not All they had nowhere to go when they were released.
There, about the lives of women in a small town in
America ($7.95 pb, 0060916028, Sept.). Harper will
also be doing a collection of stories, essays and news- Zil!
paper, magazine, and autobiographical pieces by
Laura Ingalls Wilder and Rose Wilder Lane. A Little Harper & Row has a number of new recovery
House Sampler ($7.95 pb, 0060972408, Nov.) offers titles coming in the Fall in paper. Catching Fire by
reminiscences about pioneer life for adult readers. Merle Fossum ($8.95 pb, 0062554093, Sept.) is a 12-
Turned Funny by Celestine Sibley ($8.95 pb, step guide for men in recovery. Letting Go of Shame
0060916346, Sept.) is a more contemporary memoir by by Ronald and Patricia Potter-Efron offers new in-
a Southern columnist. I do not know her writings but sights into the devastating effects of shame and shows
it has a great cover, with a photograph of the author ways of healing these wounds. Accepting Ourselves:
at about 12 years old looking very unhappy in what The Twelve-Step Jouney of Recovery from Addic-
looks like a dress for a class play. On a more serious tion for Gay Men and Lesbians by Sheppard B.
note is the biography of Alexandra David-Neel, an Kominars ($8.95 pb, 0062504932) is already out in
author, explorer, feminist and Buddhist who was “the paperback.
first to introduce the real Tibet to the West.” Forbid- Looking at Gay and Lesbian Life by Warren
den Journey by Barbara and Michael Foster Blumenfeld and Diane Raymond ($12.95, 0807079073)
(006250357X, Oct.) introduces us to this French published last Fall by Philosophical Library is due in
woman whose many feats included a winter journey, paper from Harper in Sept. This is a comprehensive
at age 54, to Lhasa, Tibet. She was the first European overview of the issues surrounding gay and lesbian
woman to venture there. life today.
Harper is also reissuing Evelyn Torton Beck’s
Nice Jewish Girls: A Lesbian Anthology ($10.95 pb,
Al; 0807079057, Dec.). A book for gay and lesbian Chris-
tians, Taking a Chance on God by John McNeill
Another not very well-known woman, Rita Levi- ($9.95, 0807079030, Sept.) is a compassionate testa-
Montalcini gives us an engaging self-portrait of her ment to McNeill’s conviction that sex, including same
extraordinary life. Levi-Montalcini was the fourth gender sex, should be integrated into a spiritual life.
woman in history to receive the Nobel Prize in medi- Continuing on a spiritual note, Christine Down-
cine. Her memoirs, In Praise of Imperfection ($9.95 ing combines her personal experience of menopause
pb, 0465-032184, Oct.) offer a look at life under the with mythology, dreams and psychology to challenge
anti-Semitic repression of Fascist Italy, her confronta- the reader to view menopause developmentally
tions with the anti-feminine bias of the medical estab- rather than pathologically...”as a soul experience” in
lishment and winning the Nobel Prize in 1986. Journey Through Menopause (Harper & Row, $9.95
An important but tragic topic is the subject of pb, 0824509501, Oct.).
Nowhere to Go: The Tragic Odyssey of the Home- Lynn Andrews has a new workbook out based on
less Mentally Ill by E. Fuller Torrey (Harper & Row, her books and workshops on shamanic initiation.
$8.95 pb, 0060915978, Sept.) Torrey examines how the Teachings Through the Sacred Wheel ($10.95 pb,
September /October 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:16 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
0062500228, Sept.) will help readers develop tools to
initiate “a journey to discover one’s own enlighten-
ment.” Harper and Row will also be doing a revised
and updated 10th anniversary edition of Starhawk’s
The Spiral Dance ($12.95 pb, 0062508148, Oct.). I also
want to mention a book that sold well for us in cloth,
The Dancing Healers by Carl Hammerschlag, M.D.
($8.95 pb, 0062503952, Oct.), the autobiographical ac-
count of a Yale-trained psychiatrist's encounter with
Native American healing.
The second volume of A History of Their Own
by Bonnie Anderson and Judith Zinsser ($12.95 pb,
\ 0060915633, Oct.) will be out in paperback soon.
il!
Moving on to Penguin Books: Penguin will pub-
lish a biography of Margaret Mead in their Lives of
Modern Women series. This biography by Phyllis
Grosskurth (Margaret Mead, $4.95 pb, 0140087605,
Sept.) will be great for high-school students or as a
basic introduction to Mead’s life and work.
The wonderful autobiography of Heda Mar-
golius Kovaly, Under the Cruel Star: A Life in Prague
1911-1968 ($8.95 pb, 0140126430) is due out in Oct..
Kovaly is a Czechoslovackian Jew who escaped from
Auschwitz during WWII and made her way back to
Prague to live out the war and fight for freedom.
However, her horrors did not stop with the war. Her
husband became a victim of the Stalinist purges.
Kate Braverman’s new novel, her first in ten
years, is the tale of three Hispanic women living in the
barrio of Los Angeles. Palm Latitudes ($8.95 pb,
0140126406, Oct.) is a story that lifts ordinary lives to
the level of myth. Braverman’s earlier novel Lithium
“Smart, often startling, energetic.” for Medea ($7.95 pb, 0140126414, Oct.) will be re-
—Publishers Weekly published at the same time.
“Bleak, funny, outrageous... Liza Cody’s new mystery Rift ($3.95, 0147785014,
prote sR t,e pa d rlai eun sg eg nh c H ea e n l oe d fn f aH i n o wad lg l ry im t e a a rn c k In| o mr we uls e si ds tt g, e l i s a I td ’ emm n i r i te n o, .” the S Mep at x.) i nw eil l Kbe u mou it n ’i sn p pa op eer tb ra yck bfr oo om k , P e Nng au tin u. r eA l so ($8.95,
—JANE RULE, author of Memory Board 0140586199, Sept.) is finally in paper from Penguin.
A very thought-provoking and chilling investiga-
i HARMONY BOOKS tion into how computers are taking over decision-
A division of The Crown Publishing Group, making in the workplace is due from Penguin in Sept.
225 Park Ave. South, N Y., N.Y. 10003 The Electronic Sweatshop ($7.95 pb, 0140121455) by
Barbara Garson is a brilliant assessment of the use and
* London Evening Standard Design & illus. by Richard Pracher misuse of computers from McDonald’s to Wall Street.
September /October 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:16 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
FEL
ynD
. „Al.I
[
Virago Press, distributed here by Penguin, will 015110431x, Oct.) is a comic story of a young girl's
publish a novel and a collection of short stories by coming of age in a small town Black community
Indian writer Attia Hosain. Sunlight on a Broken several decades ago.
Column ($7.95 pb, 0140161910, Oct.) is the story of an Harcourt Brace Jovanovich will be doing new
Indian woman fighting for her independence while editions of several of their backlist big sellers. Now
India struggles against colonial rule. Phoenix Fled That You Know for parents of lesbian and gay child-
($7.95 pb, 0140161929, Oct.) is a collection of twelve ren by Betty Fairchild and Nancy Hayward ($8.95 pb,
stories that explore life in India in the 1940s and '50s. 0156677024, Sept.) will be updated with a new intro-
duction and an additional chapter that discusses the
Dutton/NAL, now distributed and owned by complex issues around AIDS.
Penguin USA, has a number of interesting things com-
Pin og r n oin g r ap pa hp yer : . M T eh ne y P ow ssi ell s s ir ne gp u b Wli os mh e nA n (d $r 9e .9a 5 D pw bo ,rkin’s Zil;
0525485171, Sept.) that has been out of stock at Put-
nam for months, in conjunction with Letters from a There are new editions of To the Lighthouse and
War Zone, Dworkin’s collected essays and speeches A Room of One's Own by Virginia Woolf. To the
($18.95 c], 0-525-24824-2, Oct.). They will also do a new Lighthouse ($6.95 pb, 0156907399, Sept.) will have a
edition of The Princess of Clèves by Madame de foreword by Eudora Welty and A Room of One’s
LaFayette ($5.95 pb, 0452009863, Sept.), a 17th century Own ($5.95 pb, 0156787334, Sept.) will have a fore-
novel that marked the beginning of the modern psy- word by Mary Gordon.
chological novel. Phyllis Chesler’s books Women and Madness
In Oct., Dutton-Penguin USA will do the paper- ($9.95 pb, 0156982951, Oct.) and About Men ($9.95 pb,
back of Fasting Girls by Joan Jacobs Brumberg ($9.95 0156026090, Oct.) will be out in trade paper editions
pb, 0452262271). This account of the roots of anorexia from Harcourt Brace Jovanovich. The Avon edition of
nervosa explores the complex meaning of food and Women and Madness will be OP soon.
eating in women’s lives. She argues that culture is the Volume one of The Essays of Virginia Woolf
critical variable that triggers anorexia nervosa. ($12.95 pb, 0156290545, Nov.) will be out from Har-
Edna O'Brien's much acclaimed novel The High court Brace Jovanovich. Finally in paperback, in time
Road ($8.95 pb, 0452263069, Oct.), her first in 11 years, for holiday sales, is Living by the Word by Alice
will be out in a Plume edition (NAL-Penguin USA) Walker ($8.95 pb, 0156528657, Oct.), her latest collec-
soon. Her earlier books are selling again at our store tion of essays and journal entries.
since the great reviews this novel received.
Putnam doesn't have a very strong list this Fall.
They are doing one book about a young women who
ıl; took her sexually abusive father to court in Texas and
won a $10 million settlement. Dark Obsession by
Harcourt Brace Jovanovich has a couple of inter- Shelley Sessions with Peter Meyer ($19.95 cl,
esting novels due this Fall. Eden Close by Anita 0399134972, Jan.) may be of interest to sexual abuse
Shreve ($17.95 cl, 0151275823, August) is a story of counselors and survivors. What Lisa Knew is Joyce
child abuse in an isolated farm community. Baby of Johnson’s investigation into the Hedda Nussbaum
the Family by Tina McElroy Ansa ($18.95 c|, and Joel Steinberg case and the issue of family
September /October 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:16 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
EE———
A lively look at
of crystals—
and the lunacy they’ve
sometimes inspired
crystals linked with Atlantis? Do crystals give off
vibrations?
what they can—and can’'t—do.
guide to individual minerals.
Paperback, $14.95
Harper e& Row Features 8 pages of full-color
photographs of the most widely
f San Francisco used crystals, plus 24 pages of
black-and-white photos.
violence in America. If this follows her controversial Award for The Middleman and Other Stories ($16.95
article in Vanity Fair, she will probably blame Hedda c], 0-8021-1031-2). Jasmine ($17.95 cl, 0802110320,
Nussbaum, another victim of Steinberg’s violence. Sept.) is the story of a widowed girl of seventeen who
Why is it that white, upper-income people, be they later moves to America and is greeted by a brutality as
victim or victimizer, get all the press coverage? primitive as any she has known.
Putnam will be publishing a new collection of Another novel for the growing international fic-
stories by Lee Smith, Me and My Baby View the tion sections is Heavy Wings by Zhang Jie ($22.50 cl,
Eclipse ($18.95 cl, 0399135073, Feb.). Her latest novel, 0802110398, Oct.), one of China's most important writ-
Fair and Tender Ladies was one of the best books I read ers. This novel, set in contemporary Beijing, is the
last year, so I am very excited to see this new collection story of a cross section of urban Chinese society set
sO soon. against the backdrop of the Morning Light Auto
Works and its diverse group of workers and
Grove Press and Weidenfeld & Nicolson will now bureaucrats.
ship and bill together and also combine for discount. Passing On is a new novel by British writer Pe-
Grove will publish the new novel by Bharati nolope Lively. Passing On ($16.95 cl, 0802111556, Feb.)
Mukherjee, who won the National Book Critics Circle is the story of a mother-daughter relationship and of
September /October 1989 Volume 12 Number 3
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:16 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
i C
il.i AlI sI s f g
riil. sl -TRE
the daughter coming to terms with what is lost and New titles from Unwin Hyman include Women,
what can be retrieved from her past. Knowledge, and Reality ed. by Ann Garry and
A short story collection by an author I don’t know, Marilyn Pearsall ($16.95 pb, 0-04-445222-5, 384 pp.),
but that looks very interesting, is This is About the a collection of articles by twenty-one leading femi-
Body, the Mind, the Soul, the World, Time and Fate nist scholars exploring feminist philosophy, in-
by Diane Williams ($15.95 cl, 1555843689, Jan.). tended to be an introduction to the subject. The
Weidenfeld & Nicolson will publish this collection by Women’s Movement in Latin America ed. by Jane
the co-editor of Story Quarterly. S. Jaquette ($14.95 pb, 0-04-445185-7) discusses fem-
Age by Hortense Calisher ($6.95 pb, 155843719, inism and the transition to democracy in the last
Sept.), another Weidenfeld & Nicolson title, is a por- decade. Women, Rites and Sites, ed. by Peggy
trait of love, marriage and growing old that is both Brock ($13.95 pb, 0- 04-370186-8, Oct.), is a collec-
fearful and magical, unsentimental and hopeful. tion of essays about Aboriginal women’s cultural
knowledge, challenging earlier scholar’s views on
A number of Pandora Press titles are newly avail- their role in Aboriginal society.
able in the U.S. from Unwin Hyman. Amazons and
Military Maids by Julie Wheelwright ($24.95 c], 0-04-
440256-9, 40% for 5+ books) is an account of women Zl
who dressed and passed as men in Western culture,
which also examines the meaning of this escape from
women’s domestic role. One of the many new releases from Doubleday
Motherhood: What It Does to Your Mind by Jane stands out: Jazz Cleopatra by Phyllis Rose ($19.95 c],
Price ($10.95 pb, 0-86358-211-7) discusses the occu- 0-385-24891-1, 368 pp., 24 b&w photos, Oct.). It is a
pational hazards of being a mother and locates the major new biography of Josephine Baker which seeks
source in society rather than women’s endocrine sys- to combine considerations of race and culture with a
tems. Birth and Our Bodies by Paddy O’Brien ($8.95 full portrait of the entertainer. There will be a variety
pb, 0-86358-047-5) is being reissued. It is a positive of novels, including Long Distance Life by Marita
guide to preparing for an active birth, with physical Golden ($17.95 cl, 0-385-19455-2, Oct.) Her second
and mental exercises for the childbearing year. Your novel is a family portrait, a view of twentieth century
Life After Birth, also by Paddy O’Brien ($10.95 pb, Black history, focusing on the lives of Naomi and her
0-86358-266-4), provides exercises and meditations for daughter Esther. What I Have to Tell You by Mary
the first year of motherhood. A revised and updated new Elsie Robertson ($17.95 cl, 0-385-26232-9) is the story
edition of Your Body, Your Baby, Your Life by Angela of a young Virginia woman whose search for her
Phillips ($10.95 pb, 0-86358-006-8) is available, a sup- missing husband leads her to Phoebe Jewkes, a psy-
portive, nonsexist guide to pregnancy and new parent- chic living on a tiny island.
hood. Until They Are Five by Angela Phillips ($10.95 pb,
0-04-440361-5, Oct.) is a parents’ guide that is both light- St. Martin’s Press is doing the paperback edition
hearted and comprehensive. Into the Mainstream by of Living the Spirit, ed. by Will Roscoe ($9.95 pb,
Nicci Gerrard ($12.95 pb, 0-04-440366-6) will be of inter- 0-312-03475-X), the anthology of writings by and
est to feminist booksellers. It’s an examination of how about lesbians and gay Native Americans, containing
feminism has changed women’s writing. Gerrard inter- stories, poetry and personal and historical accounts.
viewed writers, literary agents and editors. (See also St. Martin’s Press in Part II.
Volume 12 Number 3 87 September /October 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:16 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsPART II
by Anita D. McClellan
THE CROWN PUBLISHING GROUP (Ran-
dom House subsidiary)
FOR MATURE READERS Revolt in Paradise by K'tut Tantri is a paperback
reissue of the autobiographical, revolution adventure
of a then-19-year-old Dutch artist and hotelkeeper in
The Nursing Bali in pre-independence Indonesia. Tantri, swept up
Home in the Indonesian anti-Dutch resistance movement of
Handbook: 20 years ago, comments on a tumultuous time, the
A Guide period of the film The Year of Living Dangerously, as she
for Families tells her gripping personal story. Griffin, $11.95 pb,
0-517-573733, 8 pp photos, October.
by Jo Horne Ducks by Helen Hodgman was one of the inter-
At least 20 percent of people esting ABA finds this year. It was originally published
age 65 and older will spend in Britain where it won the Somerset Maugham
some time in a nursing home. Award and the plot revolves around the lives (and
Readers will learn how to love) of two contemporary (feminist!) lesbians. $16.95
thoroughly evaluate a nurs- cl, 0-517-573-97-0.
ing home and the services it
: > : offers, assess costs, appraise DAVID R. GODINE
amissio aroements, review payment sources, and
monitor and ensure quality care. Canadian writer Jane Urquhart’s first novel, The
Paper, 190 Pages, $9.95 H ISBN 0-673-24924-7 Whirlpool, has been hailed in Canada as “a jewel of a
-Survival book” (The Globe and Mail). Set in summer 1889 on the
Handbook Canadian side of Niagara Falls, the story centers on
for Widows Maude, an undertaker’s wife, whose busy work sea-
son, shaped by crazy, failed stunts and river accidents,
by Ruth Jean shadows her days with death, her customers’ and her
Loewinsohn husband’s. Urquhart’s is a strange North American
tale of Victorian obsession. $17.95 cl, 0-87923-806-2,
Short, emotionally supportiv October.
chapters offer advice and
practical information on B
dealing with the grieving / si D
process; handling finan-
ec sia tl a t ea ;f f ca oir ps i; n g s e t wt il tin hg the WILLIAM MORROW
holidays; setting up a Just published, Invisible Lives: The Loving Al-
Support system. ternative of Millions of Women by sociologist and
Paper, 142 Pages, $5.95 M ISBN 0-673-24820-8 two-time novelist Martha Baron Barrett (Maggie's Way;
ASbcyAo Rt tLP,i t tBFloo er,o ek sBsm r oaa wnre n a c naodn- p d uC boCl.,oi s . hseodld b byy t hSceo tAt,m eFroirceasnm aAns s oancida t iCono. , o fan dR e dtiirsterdi b Puetresdo n tso abnodokstores G wo od m's e n C o au cn rotr ssy ) t hw ee a v Ue .Ss . t th ae lk is nt go r i ae bs o ua tn d t h v eo iric e ls e s bof ia n 120
lives. $19.95 cl, 0-688-07730-7, 20 photos.
E ae Sissy Spacek has bought movie rights to A Mind
of My Own by Chris Costner Sizemore, the woman
with a split personality known as Eve in the 1957
(617) 890-0250 collect Oscar-winning Joanne Woodward film, The Three
Faces of Eve, and co-author of a 1976 autobiography,
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:16 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
[Rll Il- sÉ R RiaRl I3. I Ainis|N
I'm Eve. Sizemore’s latest is about integrating her mul- promise to be as memorable as the characters in
tiple personalities, adjusting to new life as a single Smith's Cakewalk. $18.95 cl, 0-399-13507-3, February.
personality, and her family’s getting accustomed to Two grisly, domestic true-crime nonfiction books
her as an independent woman. $19.95 cl, 0688-08199-1. are scheduled for early 1990. In Dark Obsession: A
Novelist Rumer Godden’s second volume of True Story of Incest and Justice, Texan Shelley Ses-
memoirs, A House with Four Rooms ($18.95 c], 0-688- sions recounts her incest story with journalist Peter
08629-2, 16pp photos, November) is the England-set Meyer's help. After 7 years of abuse, teen-ager Ses-
sequel to her 1987 New York Times Notable Book of sions took her father to court and the jury awarded her
the Year, A Time to Dance, No Time to Weep . $10 million. $19.95 cl, 0-399-13497-2, January. In What
Lisa Knew: The Secrets of an American Family, ex-
panding on her Vanity Fair articles, Joyce Johnson, Beat
8 memorialist (Minor Characters, In the Night Café) and
free-lance writer, turns to the 1988 middle-class Man-
hattan story of the year, Joel Steinberg and Hedda
Woman of the Dawn: A Spiritual Odyssey by Nussbaum’s family violence and murder of their 6-
Wabun Wind [Marlise James] is the autobiography of year-old, Lisa. It is unclear what Johnson adds to the
a (former) New York journalist (currently) a literary plethora of intimate detail on this subject squeezed
agent whose spiritual transformation led her to be- dry by media, novelists, and neighbors. $19.95 cl,
come a founder of the Sun Bear movement. It offers “a 0-399-13474, February.
new vision of womanhood based upon Native Amer-
ican wisdom, tells the story of how one very modern
woman rediscovered the ancient female energy the Zil:
Earth embodies, and offers a portrait of the early days
of the Sun Bear movement.” $18.95 cl, 0-13-961699-3. ST. MARTIN’S PRESS (Tor Books)
November. Mary S. Lovell, best-selling biographer of Kenyan
In Over the High Passes: The True Story of One aviator-pioneer Beryl Markham (Straight on Till Morn-
Woman's Year in the Himalayas Christina Noble re- ing), tackles aviator-pioneer Amelia Earhart in The
counts her experience traveling with the Gaddi, a Sound of Wings, focusing on Earhart’s life rather than
self-sufficient shepherding people of the Himalayas. her mysterious 1937 disappearance during flight.
Her journey took her through some of the most Based on original sources, the book covers celebrities
dangerous terrain in the world, as well as into the and aviation during the 1920s, 30s, and 40s. $22.95 cl,
midst of a people living in solitude and contentment. 0-312-03431-8, 400pp, 24pp photos, November.
$9.95 pb, 0-13-646522-6, September. Two new titles in the trade paperback Vermilion
Books biographical series are Mary McCarthy by
PUTNAM BERKLEY GROUP Carol Gelderman (”intelligent, sympathetic, detailed”
The best news this fall from my batch of main- — Joyce Carol Oates) ($12.95 pb, 0-312-03482-2,
stream publishers is a second collection of stories by 448pp, 16pp photos, November) and Lillian
Lee Smith, author of 7 novels, most recently Fair and Hellman: Her Legend and Her Legacy by Carl Rolly-
Tender Ladies, soon to be in paperback. Me and My son, subject of a stellar critical review-essay on bio-
Baby View the Eclipse settles in for revelations in graphy in The Women’s Review of Books ($13.95 pb,
average lives. The characters’ voices in this collection 0-312-03481-4, 624pp, 24pp photos, November).
Volume 12 Number 3 89 September /October 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:16 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
In April I attended the Writers Union-Boston for Healing: Reflections on the Holocaust (Summit,
Local's annual conference, where a session on auto- $8.95 pb, 0-671-68879-0, October) and Generation
biographical writing featured John Preston. He spoke without Memory: A Jewish Journey in Christian
about his work as writer-in-residence of the Portland, America (Summit, $8.95 pb, 0-671-69001-9, October).
Maine, AIDS project and addressed movingly and When to Say Goodbye to Your Therapist by
eloquently his editing of Personal Dispatches: Writ- Catherine Johnson, Ph.D. and free-lance writer, uses
ers Confront AIDS. Contributors include Andrew case histories and both the client's and the therapist's
Holleran, Edmund White, Robert Glück, and Marea perspectives to pinpoint when enough is enough.
Murray. $17.95 cl, 0-312-03412-1, November. Fireside, $8.95 pb, 0-671-68846-4.
Just out, Reader, I Murdered Him: Original
Crime Stories by Women, ed. by Jen Green and orig-
inally published in the UK, is a book I feel personally Zil
proud of, as it is the first to appear since [, as literary
agent, began selling U.S. rights for The Women’s Vogue ’s “Mind Health” columnist Carol Tavris
Press, London. Among the familiar and first-time- has updated and revised her Anger: The Misunder-
published contributors telling 16 stories of killers and stood Emotion, adding material on strategies for
of feminists are Seal Press's Barbara Wilson, Amanda anger scenarios, biological politics, highway and
Cross, Val McDermid, Sara Paretsky, Susan Dunlap, sports anger, young women’s anger. Touchstone,
Sue Ward. $15.95 c], 0-312-03415-6. $9.95 pb, 0-671-67523-0.
African-American storytellers Linda Goss and
SIMON & SCHUSTER (Summit Books, Marian E. Barnes have anthologized African-American
Fireside, Touchstone) storytelling in Talk That Talks. Contributors include
Robyn Davidson, critically acclaimed Australian Nikki Giovanni, Zora Neale Hurston, Maya Angelou
author of the nonfiction Tracks, has a coming-of-age and stories range from animal tales to legends, poems,
first novel set in Australia, Ancestors. S&S, $19.45 cl], raps, heroic biographies. Touchstone original, $10.95
0-671-68062-5, October. pb, 0-671-67168-5; $22.45 cl, 67167-7.
Elisabeth Young-Bruehl’s highly praised bio-
graphy, Anna Freud, about the founder of child analy- TEN SPEED PRESS/CELESTIAL ARTS
sis, is in paperback (Summit, $12.95 pb, 0-671-68751-4, Face to Face: A Guide to AIDS Counseling by
528pp, 16pp photos), as are Anne Roiphe’s A Season James W. Dilley, Cheri Pies (Considering Parenthood: A
Workbook for Lesbians, Spinsters), and Michael Helquist
is written for counselors by specialists active in AIDS
health care. Topics covered include AIDS anxiety syn-
drome, testing and results, safer-sex counseling and
clinical practice, substance abuse, AIDS prevention
messages in ethnic communities. Celestial Arts, $14.95
c], 0-89087-583-9, 350pp, October.
Women’s Intuition by midwife Elizabeth Davis
(Heart & Hands, Energetic Pregnancy) links intuition to
various stages of consciousness and shows why it is
powerful in women, how to develop and use it best,
what it means for society as a whole. Celestial Arts,
$7.95 pb, 0-89087-572-3.
Women of Power presents 10 New Age charis-
matic women, including Claudia Black, Louise Hay,
Lynn Andrews, Anne Wilson Schaef, Elisabeth
Kübler-Ross. Celestial Arts, $11.95 pb, 0-89087-580-4;
$19.95 c], 0-89087-579-0, December. O
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:16 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
Canadian Content, Continued
next issue of FBN. Possibilities include a variety of
authors for the column on a rotational basis, or giving Index of Advertisers
over the space to a different voice from among our
sister bookstores. A questionnaire to the Canadian
stores is in the works. The results will comprise next
issue’s column.
Canadian Content is at a turning point in its exist-
ence. To be or not to be — that is the question! O
Back to Press, Continued
Periodical: Hot Wire; Lesbian Connection; Common
Lives/Lesbian Lives; Off Our Backs; Sojourner/Sinister
Wisdom.
Author: Alice Walker; Katherine V. Forrest; Toni
Morrison; Rita Mae Brown; Audre Lorde.
Cartoonist: Alison Bechdel; Nicole Hollander;
Lynda Barry; Kris Kovick; Mary Wings.
Movie/Film: Desert Hearts; I Heard the Mermaids
Singing; Beaches; Aliens; Shame. *]
Art Books, Continued
science pictures. Both women are acknowledged
leaders in the field of photography. Abbott turned 91
this year.
Carlotta Corpron, Designer With Light will fit
nicely on the shelf next to the Lange and Abbott books.
Corpron makes exquisite, surreal photographs, some- R Mae n se
t ci am me es r a .m Uan ni ip vu el ra st ii tn yg ol fig h Tt e x i an s t Ph re e s sd , a r $k 9r .9o 5o m p b w , i t 0h -2o 9u 2t - a RRaegwdewed o Poredss / GRyneercgoyr Bdoosk.s. . . e2ee0 62
71065-8; $14.95 cl, 0-292-71064-X. Rising Moon Designs ............. ee- 67
Update: Gallerie: Women’s Art is now distributed Scott, Foresman & Co. ...... eessen 88
Cin a n at dh ie a n U . PS e. r ib oy d ic B alP Pa un bd l is U heb riq s u i Aty ss, o ca in atd i o nin ( CC Pa Pn Aad ).a by Si dSoeuwtha l Ekn d R Pervesosl u ..t..i..o..n Press . er 44
You can also order direct from Gallerie Publications, Third Woman Press
2901 Panorama Drive, North Vancouver, B.C., V7G Three Continents Press . .
2A4, Canada, Gallerie Annual (1988, 1989) Can. $12, Tools For Change ..
minimum order 3, 40%. O Univ. of North Carolina Press «<`: ...16
University of Oklahoma Press ...…..….… .....38
Gay Men’s Lit, Continued
chapters and sprinkles his own bon mots throughout WUnilidvf. i roef B SOoOutKhS C..a.e.r-o-e.l-in- a - ePsreerSs8e 5-o4 24
the collection.
Wild Violet Press
Crisp collects his Christopher Street essays in
How To Go to the Movies: A Guide for the Perplexed With his inimitable wit and style, Crisp discusses films
(St. Martin’s, $15.95 cl, 0-312-03364-8, December). A and their stars, sharing his personal encounters with
veteran filmgoer for 70 years, Crisp has kept a vigilant Laillinan dGis h, JGohne Hrurat,l Ddaviidn Hoeck ne y,P Daivigne,e S.ti ng ,O
eye on changing Hollywood styles and public taste.
Volume 12 Number 3 91 September /October 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:16 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
OUT OF PRINT
WANTED...............OFFERED
BOOKS WANTED
Moonyean Grosch
ClaireLight Women’s Books
1110 Petaluma Hill Road Suite 5
Santa Rosa, CA 95404
I'm looking for a copy of Caritas by Olga Broumas. It
was published prior to Beginning with O. Copper
Canyon Press says the copy they have has no reference
to the press which published it, so it might be self-pub-
lished
Fighting Woman News
Box 1459, Grand Central Station
New York, NY 10163
Atkinson, Linda. Women in the Martial Arts (Dodd-
Mead, 1983). Our readers are looking for copies. Tell us
what you have, condition, price and we'll publish the
info — free. They will contact you directly.
Out of Print Wanted/Offered: How It Works
If there are books that you/your customers are look-
ing for or want to sell, send your name, address,
phone and the authors and titles (and any particulars
— HB only, Multiple copies wanted, PB OK) to
FBN/Books Wanted /Offered. We’ll run your list in
the next issue. Store name, address and phone number
count as three lines. Each book listing counts as a
: separate line (48 characters /line maximum) $.60/ line.
ahura Mark all listings either “Wanted” or “Offered.” Pay-
t- ment is due with the listing. Your customers are wel-
S : S:M s 9 ag.i . c|o m e r toe lqistu teitslest sif . you don’t want to track their
i e The simplest way to respond to “Books Wanted” is to
SE : send a postcard specifying the book you’d like to sell,
your name, address and phone number, the book’s
condition and the price you'll sell it for. (Include post-
age in the price.) If the bookstore wants to buy your
cobpy,y the y' ll r sened tyouu ar chneck a ndp yoou ssentd . t he bOook
Volume 12 Number 3 92 September /October 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:16 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsTHE WAR WITH TWO VOICES /Laurence WOMEN’S VOICE IN LATIN
Deonna. Deonna, a Swiss author, reporter, and AMERICAN LITERATURE /Naomi Lindstrom.
winner of the UNESCO Education for Peace A consideration of Latin American Women
Prize (1987), writes about women from both writers, focusing on the works of Clarice Li-
sides of the Egyptian-Israeli conflict — silent spector, Rosario Castellanos, Marta Lynch, and
witnesses to a conflict that has shattered Silvina Bullrich. Also included is a discussion
their lives. Based on interviews. ISBN 0-89410- of feminist criticism and bibliographies. ISBN
638-4/C/$24; -639-2/P/$12 0-89410-295-8/C/$26; -296-6/P/$16
PEARS FROM THE WILLOW TREE Violet
Lannoy. This long-lost Goan-Indian novel has
been “re-discovered’ by Peter Nazareth. Seb, novel deals with the traditional rite of excision
still practiced in areas of the Middle East and
Indian “lost generation. As a teacher at a Africa. Set in Lebanon, Accad shows woman as
Gandhian-inspired school, he struggles along- prisoner, victim, and target of the male's pre-
side his countrymen against corruption of the occupation with domination and fear of women.
soul to take over and remake post-Imperial India. Translated from the French by David Bruner.
ISBN 0-89410-564-7/C/$26; -565-5/P/$12 ISBN 0-89410-596-5/C/$20; -597-3/P/$8
BIBLIOGRAPHY OF WOMEN WRITERS SOME OF THE OTHER TITLES FROM
FROM THE CARIBBEAN Brenda Berrian. THREE CONTINENTS PRESS BY/ABOUT
Creative works by Dutch, English, French and WOMEN:
Spanish-speaking women writers from the Car-
ibbean are included in this exhaustive biblio- 1. The Coloured Bangles by Saloni Narang
graphy which lists original formed works. 2. Fary, Princess of Tialli, by Nafissatou
ISBN 0-89410-600-7/€/$25; -601-5/P/$15 Diallo
3. Hermakhonon by Maryse Condé
OUR SUN WILL RISE,/Amelia Blossom House. 4. House of a Thousand Doors by Meena
A collection of poems by a native South African Alexander
who depicts and interprets the subtle and 5. Orchid House by Phyllis Shand Allfrey
explosive tensions of her homeland. 6. Paper Boats by Hilary Tham
Includes 18 full-page drawings by artist Selma 7. Slow Coins by Julia Fields
Waldman. ISBN 0-89410-642-/C/$18; -643- 8. The Web: Stories by Argentine Women,
0/P/$10 edited by H. Ernest Lewald.
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:16 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsEYE OF A HURRICANE THE OTHER SAPPHO
Stories by Ruthann Robson A Novel by Ellen Frye
Thirteen surprising, sometimes startling Sappho’s story is celebrated in myth and
stories about women riding out the hidden in ancient Greek history. But who
storm. Buffeted by the winds of violence, knows of Lykaina, Sappho’s contemporary,
chance encounter, inevitable change, and a poet from a different storytelling tradi-
personal history, Ruthann Robson’s tion? Ellen Frye has written a novel rich
characters seek the eye of the hurricane. in the complexities of their world. With
Here is the place to find a moment’s calm, a sharp eye for detail and an ear tuned to
the time to come to terms with the sur- the language and rhythms of the times,
rounding turmoil. Eye Of A Hurricane Frye’s work mixes traces of the old matri-
is a compelling read about women see- archal religion with Sappho and Lykaina’s
ing past their own hothouse doors, 2a romance, their competing needs and poet-
book with a Florida flavor and a zest for ic styles, making the hills and shores of
life in full bloom. Greece come alive.
136 PAGES ISBN 0-932379-64-8 $ 8.95 PAPER ISBN 0-932379-68-0 $ 8.95 PAPER
ISBN 0-932379-65-6 $18.95 CLOTH ISBN 0-932379-69-9 $18.95 CLOTH
. HUMID PITCH SANS SOUCI
Narrative Poetry by Cheryl Clarke And Other Stories by Dionne Brand
Cheryl Clarke’s third book of poetry once Trinidad and Toronto—and the emotion-
again reveals her as a probing storyteller. al distances inbetween—as the Black wom-
Clarke unearths the untold or not-told- en at the heart of Sans Souci move from
enough tales of women of color, triumphant the Caribbean to Canada and back again.
lesbians, ambivalent men, slave women, and These are the settings for Dionne Brand’s
the children who survive childhood. Always skillful first collection of short stories. Ex-
indebted to Black music, she moves her lan- ploring the home she left and the one she
guage to its rhythms, exploring her peren- adopted, Brand writes about Black wom-
nial themes of love, sex, lesbianism, loss, and en’s marginality in both geographies. Sans
the open road. Clarke plumbs the Black ex- Souci (“without sorrow’) tells stories
perience and lesbian living to construct her about life as experienced by these wom-
mythic herstories, as Humid Pitch claims its en, caught up in the intensity of their lives,
space in the tradition of Afro-American while racism and sexism render their real
w 13o 2m e Pn A’s G Ew S r i It Si Bn Ng. 0-932379-66-4 $ 8.95 PAPER s 1e 5l 0v e s P A i Gnv Ei Ss i b ISle B. N 0-932379-70-2 $ 8.95 PAPER
ISBN 0-932379-67-2 $18.95 CLOTH ISBN 0-932379-71-0 $18.95 CLOTH
Š
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:16 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms