Feminist Bookstore News
Source: Reveal Digital, 11-01-1997
Contributed by: Pokey Anderson; Sapphire; Carol Seajay; Jenn Tust; Joan Pinkvoss;
Suzanne Corson; Jacqueline Dumas; Linda Bubon; Richard Labonte; Tee A. Corinne; Dorothy
Holland; Liz Wermcrantz; Jennifer Hichey; Laura Quilter; Heather Whipple; Nan Cinnater;
Roz Warren; Susan Frazier; Lisa McGowan; Mev Miller
Stable URL: https://www.jstor.org/stable/community.28036382
Licenses: Creative Commons: Attribution-NonCommercial
JSTOR is a not-for-profit service that helps scholars, researchers, and students discover, use, and build upon a wide
range of content in a trusted digital archive. We use information technology and tools to increase productivity and
facilitate new forms of scholarship. For more information about JSTOR, please contact support@jstor.org.
This item is openly available as part of an Open JSTOR Collection.
For terms of use, please refer to our Terms & Conditions at https://about.jstor.org/terms/#whats-in-jstor
Reveal Digital is collaborating with JSTOR to digitize, preserve and extend access to Reveal Digital
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist
Bookstore
News EINE
Volume 20 Number 4
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsAUASTE a aA SA Authors
THE SECRET LANGUAGE OF EATING DISORDERS
Peggy Claude-Pierre :
Peggy Claude-Pierre has helped hundreds of sufferers, including the late
Princess Diana, understand their eating disorders. In this powerful, compas-
sionate book, she details her theories on the true causes of anorexia and
bulimia and lays out the basis of her Montreux clinic program, which has
an astonishingly high rate of success.
Times Books • $25.00 hardcover
_ WHERE WOMEN STAND
_ Naomi Neft & Ann D. Levine
_ Based on United Nations documents and unpublished reports, this compelling
resource offers a detailed overview of the issues—education, employment,
health, family planning, marriage, divorce, and violence—affecting women in
140 countries. “Vital for everyone concerned with the progress of women in
today’s world.”—Former Congresswoman Pat Schroeder
Random House Reference & Information Publishing * $20.00 trade paper
CREME DE LA FEMME |
Contributions by Terry MeMillan, Cathy Guisewite,
Kathy Najimy, Anna Quindlen, Molly Ivins, Jane Wagner,
C Wendy Wasserstein & many more.
TERO MNASAN
a A delightful anthology of contemporary women’s humor—essays, short stories,
poetry, songs, and cartoons—from some of America’s most popular and engag-
ing female writers, actresses, authors, and activists. All royalties and a percentage
of the proceeds will be donated to AmFAR, the National Coalition Against
Domestic Violence, and the Susan G. Komen Breast Cancer Foundation.
Random House Reference & Information Publishing * $16.95 trade paper
E, INC. http://randomhouse.com
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
As Wwe go to press...
The big story as we go to press is the $25 million | lotof media in these last few months, but this larger
Penguin is giving independent booksellers, the largest | financial reality — and independent booksellers’
settlement — by a factor of 30 — ever awarded in an | everyday heroics in simply staying in business
antitrust case. Penguin/Pearson was very forth- despite such phenomenal illicit dealings — that’s
coming and cooperative and there’s a strong sense of next year’s media story.
“making right” to this settlement, which is a landmark Be proud. Do the math, then be angry. Don’t give
in and of itself. ABA is enormously pleased with itself | up the fight and take time to cheer ABA and its law-
and it has every right to be. yers. Renew your membership.
But it’s also important to keep the context of this
settlement in mind: This is the first time that any remu- This issue sees the return of the publisher’s
neration has been made to independent booksellers for column in full force: Aunt Lute Books’ Joan Pinkvoss
the enormous damage done to independents nation- | and yours truly arm wrestle a series of conversations
wide by illegal and unfair trade practices that favor the | aboutbook distribution and the effects of the industry
chains and superchains. In just this one case, Penguin crisis on feminist publishers into a mere ten pages.
acknowledges that, over six years, it gave $77M in (See “Distribution: Does It Work” and “The Mathe-
discounts to a handful of accounts, presumably super- matic$ of Distribution and Wholesaling.”) Now Joan
chains. Independents will get a $25M settlement. | and I enjoy talking to each other, but what we’re
Superchains and independents did roughly the same really interested in is a community-wide discussion.
amount of business during the period covered, but the There are questions aplenty for both publishers and
cThaihnsa gto t $g77iMv e—s t h rteeh teim e s s aus pmuecrh cash tahei n NsSS boao k sedlleirss. c Trakee t niootens aas r yyou regad anSdM tel l uTs w hP at
income of $50M above and beyond what
independents made for selling the same
amount of books. $50M is a lot of full-page
ads promoting independent stores. $50M
buys a lot of branding. A lot of author din-
ners. A lot of high-profile donations to
charity. $50M is $10,000 per independent |
store. Think what you could do with $10,000
to spend on promotion. Or re-fixturing the
store. Or how much backlist you could add.
Or what a nice dent it would make in your
accounts payable...
Then multiply that by every publisher |
and distributor that has given preferential
treatment to chainstores over the last six to
ten years and you get some idea how
much these deals have hurt independent Crampzine editor (and FBN intern) Kickass Karen Mitchell
stores. The book industry had received a outlining projects with FBN Assistant Editor Jenn Tust.
Volume 20 Number 4 1 November /December 1997
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
you think — printable or otherwise, on the record or off. frontlist title announcements and outstanding
This issue also sees the launch of our long- backlist titles.)
dreamed-of Publishers’ News column, a sister-column e A compilation of booksellers’ favorite and best-
to Bookstore News, to help bookstores and publishers selling titles in both areas.
stay abreast of what's happening on the publishers’ • Sidelines for ethnically focused bookstores.
side of the tracks and to recall the ideas that motivate e Black History and Women’s History Month display
and empower feminist publishing. resources.
Please send us your suggestions, ideas, favorite-
Our January issue will be a very special issue to book raves, and your best resources for celebrating
encourage booksellers — feminist, Black, gay — to cele- either — or both — months. We're very excited about
brate both Black and Women’s History Months. Living this issue and welcome your input.
in California, where anti-affirmative action Proposition
209 was recently passed, we are acutely aware of the Last but not least, please join me in thanking
right-wing attempts to re-segregate society via their Jacqueline Dumas for taking on the Canadian Books
attack on affirmative action. We want to encourage column and in welcoming our new video reviewer,
booksellers to use their displays and promotions during Liz Wermcrantz and our new science fiction colum-
these two months to remind their communities that we nists, Laura Quilter and Heather Whipple, and all of
all sink together or swim together. Cross-community our new Pubs Row reviewers to these pages. And also
support and building solidarity between Black and our intern Karen Mitchell, who joined us in Septem-
. feminist bookstores will be at the heart of this issue. ber. We'll have an opening for a second intern in
Special features will include: January, when Karen’s term ends.
e Round-ups of books for Black History and Yours in spreading the words,
Women’s History Months. (Publishers, please send Carol Seajay
Black Hist. Month, Spring ABA, BEA, TLC
Women’s Hist. Mo. Announcements Advance Info
Jan/Feb March/April May/June
Articles November 7 January 2 March 6
Ad Reservations November 14 January 9 March 13
Ad Mechanicals November 21 January 16 March 20
News Column Items November 21 January 16 March 20
Letters November 26 January 21 March 25
FEMINIST BOOKSTORE NEWS is the communications vehicle for letters are the responsibility of the authors. FEMINIST BOOKSTORE
the informal network of feminist bookstores. FBN reaches 500 NEWS (ISSN: 0741-6555) is published bimonthly in January,
feminist and feminist-inclined bookstores in the U.S. and Canada as March, May, July, September, and November by FEMINIST
well as feminist booksellers in England, Europe, Australia, New BOOKSTORE NEWS at 2180 Bryant Street #207, San Francisco
Zealand, India, Japan and Kenya. Librarians, Women’s Studies CA 94110. Periodicals Postage paid at San Francisco CA. POST-
teachers, book reviewers, publishers and feminist bibliophiles MASTER: Please send address changes to FEMINIST BOOKSTORE
comprise the remainder of the subscribers. Signed articles and NEWS, PO Box 882554, San Francisco CA 94188-2554.
November /December 1997 Volume 20 Number 4
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFBN CONTENTS
EDITOR & PUBLISHER Carol Seajay
ASSISTANT EDITOR Jenn Tust ARTICLES
ADVERT. & PRODUCTION Kathryn Werhane Distribution: Does It Work? A Conversation... . . . . .19
CATALOG COORDINATOR Lisa McGowan Mathematic$ of Distribution and Wholesaling . . . . . 25
OFFICE MANAGER Danielle Bauter M Bo Ore O R keas Son ts o rto e G et N a E WCom Sp ut e .r . e. . . b . l.. .. .. s 2 i9 13
CO L AU rM t N BIS oT okS s: Tee Corinne Feminist Publisher NeWs . 5.5.09 visu 17
Canadian Books: Jacqueline Dumas News/Short Stories =.. 910 0. VE 7
Gay Men's Literature: Richard Labonte Penguin to Pay $25M to Independents + Impact and
H Ku idm s’o r L: i tR : o Lz i nW daa r r Be un bon AD sis ht ar 'sib u Mti uo mn s o f B a nt nh ee d $ 2 in5 M B CS e t St cl he om oe l n t D i s• t r B icE tA • U Ip nd da it ee •
Music: Susan Fraiser Bestseller List Launched • Borders Ratifies First Union
M Ney wst e Mri ee ds: i a :N a Dn o r oC ti hn yn a t Her olland B Coentsracit s • eChlainlse Gio s Glaobarl i bii S 47
SciFi/Fantasy: Laura Quilter SHOR Raves a s s a ase 39
& Heather Whipple
University Presses: Mev Miller
Video: Liz Wermcrantz DEPARTMENTS
Ad'Index 0 t P 135
PROOFREADING
Martha Barrera, Danielle Bauter, Sarah Announcements... ................. 37
Fallon, Nsomeka Gomes, Kirsten Janene- BACK tO PYBSS > s s s e a a a 42
Nelson, Karen McKevitt, Karen Mitchell, Classified Ads . . . A s 136
C Da et nh al e e Tn ay lM oro ,o r ae n, d S t Se up sh aa nn ie W aP llr eo rvines, [SHOS A e e e s a s at 5
COVER ART Kathryn Werhane & Dover symbols Subscription Information . . . . 0 0 114
They Went That-A-Way . . . . ............. 43
Writing Wanted.. u e e t 46
HOW TO REACH US
TELEPHONE 415-642-9993 THE BOOKS
A BOOkS 8. a oe o s a oe P 59
FAX 415-642-9995 Canadian BOOks ... . o ek ie 49
U Fe.S m. i nP iO stS T A BoL o kS sE tR orV eI C E News CGanaAdianY C o ntMentS .M 1...S s t 5 t 7 35
PO Box 882554 Humer S0. S 75
San Francisco CA 94188
DELIVERIES KMRIOUS SLiItC. e ea ar a s T S 7557
2180 Bryant Street #207
San Francisco CA 94110 MYSİSISS 5-4. a n e A f at 71
NeWMedia. =... = e 63
EMAIL
General Info: Danielle @FemBkNews.com Our Own Presses... s u e eas 81
AEd ssit iso tr a n & t EP du ib tl oi rsh : e Jr: e n C na @r Fo el@ mF Be km NB ek wN se .cw os m.com Publisher's ROW.. -. = >- ar -e 117
Advertising: Kathyyn@FemBkNews.com S Sé mien ace l. lF ie t Pio rn e s& s eF san : t as sy ... . L e r 6 98 1
Catalog: Lisa@FemBkNews.com
Printed in the USA URIVSISIIY Presses 3.. o. v r e a s 107
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsF N
Facing the Mirror Live Sex Acts
Older Women and Beauty Shop Women Performing Erotic Labor
Culture SR :a a248 pp 12 b/w photos $16.95/pb
Frida Kerner Furman
232 pp 8 b/willus $17.95/pb Whores and Other Feminists
Appropriating Gender Edited by Jill Nagle
Women's Agency, the State, and 256 pp $18.95/pb
Politicized Religion in South Asia
E Ad mit re id t a b By a s uPatricia Jeffery and p : ; Cultural and Philo sR oe pin hte ir cp are lt i n Ig s s M ue en sopause
Zones of Religion Frida Gl H I ` Edited by Paul Komesaroff,
256 pp $17.95/pb Philipa Rothfield, and
Everyday Sexism in the J 28e 8an n pe p D $a 1l 8y .95/pb
Third Millennium
. Edited by Carol Rambo Ronai, The Second Wave
Barbara A. Zsembik, and WENES A Reader in Feminist Theory
J 26o 4e pR p. F $e 1a 7g .9in 5/pb E 41d 6it e pd p b $y 2 2 L .9i 5n /d pa b Nicholson
Rock-a-by Baby Transitions, Environments,
Feminism, Self-Help and Translations
Postpartum Depression j Feminisms in International Politics
Verta Taylor
2P 4e 0r s p pe pc t i $v 1e 8s . 9 5o /n p bGender rock-a-by baby f Edited by K 5 5a 6pJ l ao pn p,a n a $n 2 d 7 . 9W 5D /eb p.r ba S Kceaottest, Cora
verta taylor
Feminist Amnesia Women Imagine Change
The Wake of Women’s Liberation A Global Anthology of Women’s
J 2e 1a 6n pC pu r $th 16o .y 9s 5/pb RPesisrtanece s feromn 6t00 B.C.E. to
Feminist Nationalism Edited by Eugenia C.
Edited by Lois A. West DeLamotte, Natania Meeker,
320 pp $18.95/pb : . 480 pp $2 a9nd. 9 Je5an/ Fp. Ob’Barr
Chicana Feminist Thought Helene Cixous: Rootprints
The Basic Historical Writings M He em lo er ny e an d C iL xif oe u sW r i ati nng d T h Re e aG den ed rer/Sexuality
Edited by Alma M. Garcia
416 pp $24.95/pb Mireille Calle-Grubar Culture, History, Political Economy
SDN ab 30 b/w.photographs Edited abndy M Ricoaeglae r d i N Le. o nLaradnocaster
550 pp 25 illus $27.95/pb
MENESES AAEE
ATI T BaOO 1KeST 0O RE )S, eor aca Nlla EE wwaw.roSutled ge. comTaN
November /December 1997
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
1846 Richmond Avenue We began with a vision, a great deal of enthusiasm, a
Houston TX 77098 little experience and not much money. We ebbed and
Dear FBN, flowed and have ultimately drowned in a sea of
Enclosed are a couple of photos from our author returns and megastore dictates.
appearance for Does Your Mama Know: An Anthology of In addition to the hardships (oh, but there have
Black Lesbian Coming Out Stories ($19.95), edited and been joys as well), our individual lives have changed
published by Lisa C. Moore. Lisa visited a number of and we've agreed that the collective effort needs to be
our stores across the continent — Amazon, Lammas, disbanded. We'll find new causes, new ways to make
Bookwoman, to name a few. a difference.
Lisa self-published this book because she felt it In the afterword to Keep Simple Ceremonies, our
needed to exist. She had no advances, no marketing bestselling publication, Mary Daly (Gyn/Ecology) spoke
studies, no international rights contracts, and, at the of “our rough Voyage, which has proved — for those
outset, no idea where she would get the money to pay who have persisted — strange, difficult, unpredictable,
the printer. But she had a passion, and a journalism/ terrifying, enraging, energizing, transforming, encour-
business background, and came out with a beautiful aging...[t]here is no turning back.” We're not turning
book on her first try. back, we're moving on. Our thanks to FBN and the
It’s people like Lisa who make feminist book- feminist bookstores and feminist publishers who have
sellers necessary and possible, and vice versa. When helped to make it a worthwhile ride.
Lisa visited Inklings, she said no other store in Sapphire/ Astarte Shell Press
Houston (which is 20% African American) was carry-
ing her book. She’s working on her next book now,
stories of African American families, and how they
deal with their gay/lesbian members.
Stores who haven't picked up this book — consider
it. Call Lisa at Redbone Press (Decatur GA); 404-815-
8391. 40%, minimum 3, free freight.
Best to all,
Pokey Anderson /Inklings
PO Box 3648
Portland ME 04104
Dear FBN,
PN s
Nine years of Astarte Shell Press publishing
books on feminist spirituality and social justice will
come to a close at the end of this year. What has Publisher Lisa Moore beside Inklings’ sign asking the
happened to us is not new to anyone who reads FBN. entire city of Houston Does Your Mama Know?
Volume 20 Number 4 November /December 1997
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Haale MS
FEMINIST agenda
Leslie Heywood and Jennifer Drake, editors
Third Wave Agenda
Being Feminist, Doing Feminism
Feminists born between the years 1964 and 1973 have grown up with a plethora of cul-
tural choices and images. Here they discuss the things that matter now, both in looking
back at the accomplishments and failures of the past and in planning for the challenges
of the future.
$17.95 Paper (3005-4) $44.95 Cloth (3004-6) 232 pages
Devoney Looser and E. Ann Kaplan, editors
Generations
Academic Feminists in Dialogue
Composed of essays from academic women at various professional stages—from established schol-
ars to junior professors to graduate students—this collection illuminates the debates of feminist his-
tories and future legacies, while analyizing the challenges of “passing the torch.”
$19.95 Paper (2899-8) $49.95 Cloth (2898-X) 296 pages
__ Now in paperback
Fatima Mernissi
The Forgotten Queens of Islam
Recovering the stories of fifteen Islamic queens, this remarkable exploration tells how these women
ascended the throne, how they governed and exercised their power, and how their forgotten reigns
influence the ways in which politics is practiced in Islam today.
“Fatima Mernissi is regarded by many as the greatest living Koranic scholar.” Vanity Fair
$16.95 Paper (2439-9) 3238 pages
Also of Interest
Oyeronke Oyewumi
The Invention of Women
Making an African Sense of Western Gender Discourses
The “woman question,” this book asserts, is a Western one, and not a proper lens for viewing African
society. Rethinking gender as a Western construction, Oyewumi offers a new way of understanding
both Yoruban and Western cultures.
$21.95 Paper ISBN (2441-0) $54.95 Cloth (2440-2) 240 pages
Ea www.upress.umn Un.iveersidty ouf Minnesota Press
November /December 1997 6 Volume 20 Number 4
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsagreement is subject to approval by the same court
Penguin to Pay Independents $25M that approved the 1995 consent order. The new consent
order will also apply to Putnam, as the two pub-
lishers merged last year.
While not agreeing that the consent ordet was The settlement stems from Pearson’s disclosure
violated, Penguin has agreed to pay ABA an of accounting irregularities discovered when Pearson
unprecedented $25 million, plus $2 million in legal bought Penguin earlier this year and an examination
fees, in what is the largest antitrust settlement in U.S. of Penguin's books revealed a $77 million discrep-
history. After 17 years of FTC investigations, two ancy. It seemed at the time that Penguin’s accounts
lawsuits filed by NCIBA and four years of litigation receivable department had given discounts of 10% to
by ABA, this is the first time any publishers have 28 retailers in exchange for early payment. These
been held financially accountable for illegal trade discounts were not offered to all accounts and
practices that have jeopardized independent book- spanned a six-year period. Instead of being written
selling in the U.S. off, the discounts were buried in the company’s
Half of the settlement will be distributed as books. Pearson advised its stockholders that it would
quickly as possible to ABA member stores based on a take a one-time charge or $165M to cover the dis-
formula still under development as FBN went to
press. Further, all bookstores will now be permitted to did not receive the discounts, and anticipated legal
deduct returns from accounts payable as soon as the expense and brought the matter to ABA's attention.
books are shipped and earned co-op when taken, The source of the bookkeeping “irregularities” is
instead of waiting for approvals and credit memos. still in dispute, with Penguin maintaining that the
Penguin further agreed to modify the consent discounts were generated by one employee as part of
order to ensure the equal availability of pricing, an embezzlement scam. Those who are more cynical
credit, and promotional reimbursement terms to all suspect that these discounts were simply “business as
booksellers as well as agreeing to an unprecedented usual” in the book trade, which happened to be
annual review (through the year 2000) of its opera- caught at an auspicious moment for booksellers —
tions by an outside antitrust expert. The review will after the lawsuits were concluded and the consent
ensure that Penguin is complying with the modified order with Penguin was signed.
consent order and federal antitrust discrimination
laws. A confidential report of findings will be sent to
ABA which can then pursue any problems. If result-
ing discussions with Penguin are not satisfactory,
ABA may take these problems to the court. ABA may “This is the biggest thing th that has shappensti: in
also ask the court to extend the review period the publishing industry this century,” ABA interim
beyond the year 2000 if problems warrant. The new executive director Avin Domnitz stated. “Our victory
consent order also outlines a very stringent defini- should be a rallying cry for the independent book-
tion for the “meeting the competition” defense that seller. It means that publishers will no longer be able
publishers have used to justify special financial to play fast and loose with their customers, disregard-
advantages for chainstores in the past. This new ing antitrust laws. The message should be clear —
November /December 1997
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
minimal paperwork, and 2) a longer form requiring
fuller documentation (invoices, check stubs, and
wholesaler co-op reports) for stores that did above
average amounts of business with Penguin. Given
that $12.5 million, divided by ABA’s 5,000 members
comes to an average of $2,500 per store, it is expected
that the minimum payment will be significant (in the
neighborhood of $1,000?) as a way of recognizing
every member’s participation in the lawsuit, although
some sources have projected that minimum payments
Half of the $25 million will go directly to book- may be as low as $500.
sellers who were “regular members” of ABA at any Members will receive certified letters advising
time between November 28, 1995 (the date of the them of application procedures.
original consent order) and September 29, 1997 (the Members who received discounts or who have
date the settlement was filed) and purchased books filed suit against Penguin over the issue are not eligi-
from Penguin and/or its distributed lines in 1996 ble for this part of the payment.
either directly or through wholesalers. Bookstores Most of the second half of the settlement ($7.5
that were ABA members during this time, but who million) will be held in escrow against other claims
have closed their stores in the interim, will also qualify related to the cash discounts and will be paid to ABA
. for these damage awards. over the next three years. ABA's legal expenses also
ABA expects to develop two procedures for dis- come out of the remaining $3.5 million and the ABA
tributing the funds: 1) a “short form” for booksellers Board of Directors will determine how to use the
who want to apply for the basic award by submitting funds as they are received.
.. WONDERFUL first novel. —Wally Lamb
i
ERMAR lsat ntai aro R
November /December 1997
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
(Books-A-Million, a chain that did not receive
discounts, has filed an independent claim.)
As part of the settlement, the five bookstore
co-plaintiffs (Harry W. Schwartz Bookshops, Milwau-
kee; The Tattered Cover, Denver; Zion Bookstore, Salt
Lake City; BR Books/ Little Professor, Charlotte, N.C.;
and Olsson’s Books & Records, Washington, D.C.) in
the case will receive treble damages. Specific amounts
were not released.
Surrey Electorate Team (SET), five Surrey school
BEA Moves to L.A. for 1999 district board members voted to ban the use of Asha’s
_ —May1to3— Mums (published by The Women’s Press/Toronto),
_ RH, HC Return and Belinda’s Bouquet and One Dad Two Dads, Brown
Dad Blue Dads (both published by Alyson Press). All
BEA seems to have come to understand (from three books have matter-of-fact positive imagery that
declining attendance? from the show of hands at this confirm that some children have two parents of the
year’s Town Meeting?) that booksellers and pub- same gender. Two of the books also address issues of
lishers are unhappy with show after show being in racism, and Belinda's Bouquet addresses self-esteem
Chicago and has moved the 1999 show to Los Angeles. issues for overweight children. All three are intended
Dates for the 1999 show have been changed for Kindergarten and Grade One use.
(again) to May 1-3. (May 14-17 was previously The books were banned after James Chamber-
announced.) The show will then return to Chicago. lain, an openly gay teacher, submitted them for review
The 2001 show is rumored to return to L.A. FBN, in January. The school board violated its own book
however, fervently hopes that the BEA will truly review process by taking three and a half months to
return to being a road show and schedule shows in complete the review procedure, which normally takes
two or three other parts of the country before return- 30 days. All of the books are on the Gay and Lesbian
ing to Chicago. Such a commitment is long overdue. Educator (GALE)’s resource list and have been used
In related news, HarperCollins and Random successfully in B.C. schools for several years.
House have decided to exhibit at the 1998 BEA in In March, at the B.C. Teacher’s Federation con-
Chicago. Both are expected to mount smaller exhibits vention, teachers overwhelmingly approved a
than in years past. It will be very interesting to see GALEẸE-inspired resolution to “create a program to
what locations the returning corporate publishers are eliminate homophobia and heterosexism in B.C.
assigned this year and next. Presumably both applied schools.” “Many observers,” according to Quill &
after the deadline for seniority-based location assign- Quire, Canada’s book trade journal, “see the board’s
ments for the 1998 show. As per BEA’s published decision to ban as a form of revenge against GALE
seniority regulations, HC’s seniority status would and its supporters, for that decision.”
apply next year (assuming that they made the appli- The school board further voted “that all adminis-
cation deadline) as BEA now allows publishers to trative, teaching, and counseling staff be informed
retain their seniority points if they skip one year. that resources from gay and lesbian groups such as
Random House, having been absent for two years, GALE B.C. are not approved for use or distribution in
according to BEA’s regulations, will drop down to the the Surrey School District.”
bottom of the location-assignment list. RH, tradition- A coalition of teachers, parents, students and
ally, has occupied the front-and-center location. authors, and the B.C. Civil Liberties Association, filed
Simon & Schuster has decided to take rights-sales a constitutional challenge with the B.C. Supreme
space at BEA this year but, in a move that many are Court. The coalition argues that the board’s decision
taking as a slap at independent bookstores, will not violates the federal Charter of Rights and Freedoms.
exhibit on the convention floor. “While the [provincial] School Act allows the board to
Volume 20 Number 4 November /December 1997
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Understanding Parents of teens often do not know where to turn to for advice about their
the Adolescent Years adolescents. Mothering Teens is a much needed collection which offers parents
and other caregivers a wide range of information about the adolescent years. This
unique book gives parents a way to view their teens which is both practical and
encouraging.
Children, Toronto
of Washington, Seattle
eel
cine, University of California, San Diego
Edited by
Miriam Kaufman, M.D.
rule on what resources are used, they have to make about the transmission of STDs (taught by public
those decisions in line with Charter principles,” said health nurses), the banning of AIDS-education and
Irene Faulkner, associate counsel for Arvay/ Finlay, Planned Parenthood materials, and the addition of a
the law firm representing the plaintiffs. “Banning new program called “Challenge 97,” a program of
material on the grounds of sexual orientation violates student presentations on the merits of abstinence and
the expression-right of kids to read the books...and the chastity for high school students.
[rights of] parents, teachers, and authors.” The case is Donations toward court costs — which are esti-
expected to reach court later this fall. mated at $70,000 — may be sent to the B.C. Civil
Deborah Barretto, marketing and promotions Liberties Union.
manager for Women’s Press, said she wasn’t aware of For more information contact (www.lesbigay
any previous controversies involving Asha's Mums, .com/bigots) or the B.C. Civil Liberties Union, 425-815
which has been in print since 1990 and has sold W. Hastings, Vancouver BC V5C 1B4; 604-687-2919;
approximately 8,000 copies. “Teachers have told us (www.BCCLA.org). —Info from Quill & Quire
they've used it and liked it,” she said. “It’s been
ordered widely and we've had very good feedback.
This has come as a bit of a surprise.”
This particular book banning is part of a larger
pattern of restrictions and agendas passed by the SET
board members including the dismantling of the Inspired by the Southeast Booksellers Associa-
highly respected CARE (Child Abuse Research tion's (SEBA) recent letter of protest to the NYT Book
Prevention) program for children in grades K—3, the Review Web site deal with B&N (“Click here to order
repeal of a motion to install condom dispensers in this book ” — and all sales automatically go to B&N
high school bathrooms, ending educational programs with no mention whatsoever of the hundreds of
November /December 1997 10 Volume 20 Number 4
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
independent bookstores that contribute their sales News & World Report, The New York Post, Entertainment
figures to make up the list), Wordsworth Books Weekly, The Denver Post, The S.F. Chronicle Book Review,
(Cambridge, MA) has launched “The Independent NPR and, of course, Publishers Weekly and ABA's Book-
Bestseller List” and is inviting all independent book- selling This Week. But the NYT has failed to respond
stores to participate. adequately, leaving McGrath in the hot seat saying
Wordsworth staff had been considering the idea only, “I'm not responsible for this decision, it is out of
of an independent-only bestseller list for some time my hands” — as if the NYT, which is supposedly
but the SEBA letter was the catalyst for action. As familiar with the rudiments of journalism, doesn’t
Wordsworth general manager Sanj Kharbanda told know how to find or interview the people at the NYT
PW Daily, “All independents have something valu- who are responsible for this decision or how to
able to contribute to such a list,” adding that each store address its own advertising ethics issues.
should receive credit for its contribution. The new Independent Bestseller List should help
Wordsworth’s bestseller list is up at (www.word to redress this situation, focus attention on inde-
sworth.com/www/showme/bestsellers), but the pendent booksellers, and become interesting in and of
new Independent Bestseller List will soon have a site itself, as the contrast between what is sold in chain-
of its own. The site will be designed to credit all of the stores and what is sold in independents is clearly
stores that contribute to the list and will include links documented. It may also serve as a reality check for
to their Web sites or the stores’ address if they don’t publishers’ advertising and promotion departments
have a Web site. Wordsworth wants the list to be truly as to whether investing thousands of dollars to put
reflective of what the independents sell — and books in surperchains’ national print advertising
believes that specialty store reports are essential to programs is appropriate for titles that appear on the
building it. Independent Bestseller List but not on the chains-
Independent booksellers nationwide have been dominated lists. (Now that information alone would
furious that the NYT is, in effect, collecting their be worth the cost of collecting the data!)
sales information, posting it on the Web and selling If your store is willing to contribute to the Inde-
the book sales generated by the site as well as selling
proximity to the list to one of their primary competi- (sanj@wordsworth.com) or 617-354-5201.
tors (the site mentions no independent bookstores,
only B&N). Response to the NYT/B&N deal has
been growing all summer and many independent
booksellers across the country (including
Wordsworth) have stopped reporting sales to the Ratifies First Union Contract
list. Early letters of protest came from Northern Negotiating its first union contract did not come
California Independent Booksellers Association easily for Borders but, after over a year of negotia-
members, a letter from the Oregon Independent tions, the Chicago Borders at Clarke and Diversy
Booksellers Association this summer urged mem- Streets has become the first store in the chain with a
bers to stop reporting, and NCIBA President Amy union-negotiated contract.
Thomas and NCIBA executive director Hut Landon The employees, represented by the United Food
went to New York to meet with NYT Book Review and Commercial Workers Union Locale 881, voted to
editor Charles McGrath in July. SEBA members, at ratify the contract 28—. The contract calls for a union
their fall trade show, unanimously endorsed a letter shop, representing approximately 45 employees with
of protest that states that, while many independents annual union dues of $200. Salaries start at $6.50 per
in the South have faithfully forwarded sales infor- hour, with a 25-cent raise after six months and
mation in the past, 78% of reporting stores at the another 25 cents after a year, and annual pay raises of
business meeting have stopped or will soon stop 4.5% thereafter (32 cents on $7.00 at the end of one’s
sending sales figures to the book review. second year.) The standard work week remains 37 to
Media coverage of the protest has been extensive, 38.5 hours, although employees can request a
ranging from ABC’s “World News Tonight” to U.S. 40-hour week. The contract also provides a grievance
11 November /December 1997
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
procedure to handle dismissals and states that Borders plans to open several superstores in the U.K.
changes in the medical plan must be submitted in in addition to running the Books, Etc. stores, which
advance to the union. Medical coverage had been one range in size from a few thousand square feet to
of the primary organizing issues in the union drive. 16,000 square feet.
A Borders spokesperson called the agreement “tenta- Rick Vanzura, Borders’ vice president in charge
tive,” saying that there is still some disagreement of planning and finance, told the U.K.’s Bookseller that
over language issues. —Info from PW Daily. the purchase of Books, Etc., along with the opening of
the Singapore store, are part of an effort to build
Borders into “a global brand,” adding that the U.S.
Superchains market may reach “the saturation point” by the turn
of the century.
The Bookseller also noted that Barnes & Noble has
a team of 15 looking for superstore sites in the U.K. A
Borders is Spandig its horizons to Europe recent London Times report indicated that Barnes &
and Asia. Noble is on the verge of a multimillion pound venture
On November 1, Borders will open a 31,000-
square-foot store in Singapore. It will be the largest Canada’s expanding superchain which expects to
bookstore in Singapore and will feature indoor and have 75 superstores in major urban areas by the year
outdoor cafes. 2000. The chain currently operates 13 superstores and
Days after confirming the Singapore store, the 330 smaller stores.
Borders Group announced that it is purchasing Books, Rumors that B&N is actively pursuing the pur-
Etc., a U.K. chain with 22 stores in the London area. chase of HarperCollins, however, seem to be fading. O
7900 Edgewater Dr.
Oakland, CA 94621
(800) 999-4650 and service.
Fax: (510) 632-1281
www.bponline.com
November /December 1997 12
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsBy Carol Seajay and Jenn Tust will include readings by bell hooks, Minnie Bruce Pratt
and Leslie Feinberg, and Pearl Cleage — and Penny
Meristem (Memphis) celebrated their 7th birth- Mickelbury will be working with Charis’ high school
day at their neighborhood street festival in September, women writers group which started in October.
with a booth right outside their store displaying but- Charis also has three major out-of-store events on
tons, bumperstickers, t-shirts and other sidelines the fall schedule.
items. Customers could go into the store to peruse On November 11, Indigo Girls Emily Saliers and
books and higher-end items and admire the new loft Amy Ray will take time off from a killer tour to do a
in the rear of the store. Audrey writes, “We didn’t benefit for Charis Circle. They'll be talking about
really have the money for the loft but I just borrowed and signing Daughters of the Moon, Sisters of the Sun:
some more on our line of credit with the bank. Should Young Women and Mentors on the Transition to
have done this five years ago.... We have really high Womanhood (see Small Press). Emily and Amy were
ceilings in the back — so my office and storage area interviewed by two young women from The Girls
are now in the loft, and we gained 150+ square feet of Focus Group for the book. Hopefully at least one of
sales space without any additional rent. I love being them will be able to join the Indigo Girls on stage.
up here — I have a view of the entire store
and part of the street, but I have much more
of a sense of having a separate office space.
It's like being in a treehouse!” Meristem
displayed their Banned Books Week
Banner early to help publicize the week.
Audrey also told FBN that the Center for
Research on Women at the University of
Memphis, in a partnership with the local
Women’s Foundation, released a ground-
breaking study on the status of women in
Memphis and Shelby County that includes
a piece on Audrey and Meristem. = —JT
Happy 23rd Birthday to Charis Books
& More in Atlanta! Charis women are plan-
ning a big celebration in conjunction with
the release of Carryin’ On in the Lesbian and
Gay South, which includes a 40-page oral |
history of the store and historic Charis
photographs (See University Presses). Con-
grats to these famous birthday ladies!
Charis is looking forward to an excep-
tionally rich and full fall. In-store events
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Ms. and Utne Reader are expected to cover the event.
Location TBA but Charis expects it to be Þig.
Charis women are also planning, in conjunction
with a local Unitarian group, a program on eating
disorders to promote The Secret Language of Eating
Disorders. Charis has rented a 600-seat auditorium,
and is expecting a large community of school coun-
selors and therapists to attend. They expect to get a
lot of press for the event.
In addition to selling books at the Atlanta
Women’s Fund luncheon featuring Jane Fonda and
Gloria Steinem, Charis has been invited to include
promotional material in the packets that will be given
to each of the 1,500 attendees. What to use? Charis
picked the FB-Net Catalog, which includes the names
and addresses for all of the feminist bookstores in the
U.S. and Canada, and had an additional 1,500 copies
imprinted especially for the occasion. —JT
Women & Children First (Chicago) also has a
great lineup this fall: 22 events plus a workshop and
assorted book groups. Writers include Elizabeth
Perle McKenna (When Work Doesn't Work Anymore:
Women, Work and Identity); Sandra Benitez (Bitter
Grounds), Alice Hoffman, Joan Jacobs Brumberg (The
Body Project: An Intimate History of American Girls),
Cris Mazza and Lily James, Sharon Skolnick (Okee-
Chee) (Where Courage Is Like a Wild Horse: The World
of an Indian Orphanage), Lynn Kanter ( The Mayor of
Heaven), Sandra Jackson-Opoku ( The River Where
Blood Is Born), Rita Mae Brown, Daphne Scholinski
A Room of One’s Own’s beautiful new
bookstore. Wish we could print these photos in
color, b&w doesn't do justice to the rich colors,
the natural woods, and the casual elegance
they create. That's one very proud Sandi
Torkildson at the café counter while Maggie
Kozak brews coffee (middle).
Bottom: Moving the store just two doors closer
makes it much more visible from State Street,
Madison's main drag. The store is two
storefronts wide, but local zoning restrictions
allow signage on only one awning. The café
is on the left, with the books immediately
behind and on the right hand side. Has the
café brought in new traffic? Our reporter
noted that, on a recent weekday morning,
16 of 18 customers in the store came in
for the coffee shop and most stayed to
browse the books. Photos by Rose Katz
November /December 1997 14 Volume 20 Number 4
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
(The Last Time I Wore A Dress), and Jamaica Kincaid. Harmony Fair, at the Goddess Festival at Ocean Song,
And an out-of-store event for Anita Hill, and at our own anniversary, “Celebrate the Sacred
co-hosted with The Women’s Bar Association of Feminine Erotic,” is tremendous. Indeed, we are shift-
Illinois. Tickets for this event, Hill’s only Chicago ing the paradigm and creating a way of living that
appearance, were $30 and included an autographed instills respect and reverence as the foundation from
copy of Speaking Truth to Power. Book groups which we come together. Blessed Be! From my heart
included a mother /daughter book group discussing of hearts I acknowledge each of us for our commit-
The Moon Over Crete, a mystery group and a fiction ment and dedication in making the personal the
group. political, the mundane the sacred, and for choosing a
Women & Children First will also provide “a path that may at times feel overwhelming in our quest
private shopping night” for groups of ten or more for freedom and equality.” o
: (friends, book groups, women’s organizations). These
events offer “the undivided attention of W&CF staff
to recommend books, and the pleasure of each other’s Looking Back
company and advice while you shop. Do your holiday
shopping early or stock up on good books for your By Pat Reeves
discussion group or the children in your life,” W&CF Herland Sister Resources/Oklahoma City
invites. Non-profits are invited to use private shop-
ping nights to benefit their groups. What were you doing on August 1, 1988?
On August 1, 1988, for the first time, Herland
Orlando Books (Edmonton) has launched a new Sister Resources opened for business in our very own
series of writing workshops — on song writing. The property. This August, Herland celebrates nine years
workshops take place on the second Friday of every of operation at 2312 NW 39th. Many hours of volun-
month. teer time and many donations made it possible for
Herland to open our current location and to keep it
For those of you who have been following open for the past nine years.
Amazon's (Minneapolis) saga of the coffeehouse next The opening followed two years of searching for
door (“Ruby's Cafe by day, Café Ruby by night”), the the right property and preparing the building to
evening coffeehouse has closed but the daytime cafe house Herland’s services. Herland had been operat-
(8—2 Sunday to Saturday) is still open and serving ing in rented space in an old store building on NW
their great breakfasts and lunches. Amazon has 19th. Members of the Herland collective decided a
adjusted their hours accordingly and is no longer move from the old location was necessary because of
open on Saturday nights. FBN, on the other hand, is the deterioration of the building and potential zoning
still waiting for the right coffeehouse manager to problems at that location as well as a desire for a more
come along and make the entire block swing at night. easily accessible location.
The Herland Board of Directors made an offer to
purchase the property at 2312 NW 39th in September,
1987. The first hurdle to the new building was the
down payment of $3,500 that had to be raised within
Milk & Honey (Sebastopol CA) has just added a just a few weeks of making the offer. The Herland
video rental library at the shop. Some of their favorites community came through and the down payment
are Marilyn Waring’s On Sex, Lies & Global Economics, was raised. The Herland Board of Directors entered
The Hemp Revolution, When Night is Falling, and into a five year mortgage that would end with a
Antonia's Line. balloon payment of $31,000.
Milk & Honey’s owner Jill Kurman writes, “This Soon after the purchase was made, renovation
summer I found myself astonished again and again. work began. That’s when the second big hurdle to
The sense of community and celebration we gener- moving in surfaced. The electrical wiring was in terri-
ated together at the Goddess Temple at the Health & ble shape and needed to be completely redone before
15 November /December 1997
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
the building could be occupied. These were difficult | Anonymous, Herland will be forever in your debt). The
times. For several months, Herland was essentially next time you are in Herland, take a minute to look at
homeless — we had moved out of the old locationand | the plaque with the names of all those who contrib-
the new location could not be opened. The volunteers, | uted $200 or more to pay off the mortgage. It is an
Board and community preserved, keeping Herland | impressive sight.
alive with the newsletter, retreats and other events Maintaining and improving the building is a con-
continuing even without a building. tinuing challenge. There’s always something to be
Finally, on August 1, 1988, nearly eleven months | done— painting, plumbing, yard work, and cleaning.
after the initial offer to purchase, Herland’s new home | In the past year, we finally got the central heat and air
was ready to be opened to the public. conditioning that had been only a dream for many
The story doesn’t end there, though. There was | years. (There’s still a balance on the loan for the heat
still a balloon payment to be made. As the time for the | and air so contributions are welcome!)
balloon payment got closer and closer, Board mem- s
bers tried to come up with ways to meet it. Finally a è a
volunteer stepped forward and said, “What we really 2y
need to raise the remaining $20,000 is 100 people to
donate $200 each,” and she set about finding those 100 Many people have made it possible for Herland
people. Thanks to an incredible amount of support | to be in this location. Almost every time I'm at
from the community over $13,000 was donated injust | Herland, I'm reminded of some who made this space
. four months. what itis — Cindy Bookout, who was Sister 1 and took
On January 5, 1993 Herland paid off the $31,000 | the responsibility of signing the mortgage note; jo
balloon payment. Most of the money came from | Soske and her son Jon, whose leadership made the
donations from members of our community. A small | final fundraising drive successful; Kris Lund, who
anonymous loan covered the rest. (Thank you, Ms. | planted and nurtured the grass and the trees in the
front yard, Tommy and Diana, who painted
and carpeted the office area; Peggy
Johnson, who tore out a wall to open up the
_ meeting space; Natasha Rice and her army
of volunteers who did the landscaping;
Kris and Marian, who donated the ceiling
fans that were moved from the 19th Street
Herland; Ginger McGovern, who built the
backyard stage and led the crew to build
the ramp; and many others. And these are
just some of the people who helped. There
are so many more people whose work and
contributions have made Herland happen.
So, who's responsible for Herland still
being here? You are — if you've ever made
a donation, pounded a nail, mowed the
grass, swept the floor, met with a commit-
tee, performed at a fundraising event or
worked a shift. Has it all been worth it? I
know it was and is worth it every time I
hear a woman say “I didn’t know where to
Digital montages of photographs of sculpted clay figures by go but then I found Herland.” Thanks to
Jill Solomon and Sam Laundon in Kindred Arts Collection every one of you for making it happen.
1998 Calendar (Kindred Arts). —Reprinted from Herland’s Newsletter O
November /December 1997 16 Volume 20 Number 4
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFem iNnis t jBookstore News
NEY
Co UMN;
NAN
1
Compiled by Carol Seajay hand in selecting the 50 women to be featured in Coo!
Women, as well as having input on design, color usage,
While FBN does a good job covering the books from the and cover images. And these girls have strong opin-
feminist publishers, there's a lot more to publishing than ions, know exactly what they like, and aren't afraid to
just the books. In this new column and in related articles let you know. I didn’t expect it, but even the six-year-
we'll cover publisher news, interesting tidbits and trivia, olds love Thelma and Louise. Watch out world, when
and look at some of the more complicated aspects of publish- this generation comes of age!
ing, such as the ongoing discussion about distribution. Girl Press books will be distributed to the trade
Publishers, please send us your (non-book related) news for through LPC and to schools in association with
this column, and please call if you have suggestions for the Advocacy Press. Girl Press is located at 8273 Clinton,
related series of articles. —CS Los Angeles CA 90048; 213-651-0880; (GirlPress@
Earthlink.net).
New Publishers
Girls to watch out for: Pam Nelson will launch Girl Burning Bush, recently launched by Therese
Press in March with the publication of Coo! Women. This Armstrong, Cheryl Williams and Abby Bogomoilny,
pressis born out of a commitment to gender politics and will publish lesbian erotic poetry and journal books in
shopping failure: frustrated that she couldn't find the addition to books on the immigrant experience (see
books she wanted for her cousins and young friends last New to North America in Small Press). Therese is the
Christmas, Pam decided to take matters into her own publishing coordinator as well as being the print
hands and publish them herself. She approached Girls, manager at Community Printers in Santa Cruz.
Inc. (formerly Girls Club) with a proposal about work- Cheryl will handle publicity and marketing. She’s a
ing together on some aspects of the first book. Inspired writer, is particularly interested in African American
by their enthusiasm, she decided to go for it. The first writing, and works in the county court system. Abby
book, Coo! Women, will also serve as a fundraiser for is the editor and also does public relations. She teaches
Girls, Inc., which will receive $1.00 for each book sold. English and writing, has worked with HerBooks,
Fall '98 titles will include a righteous book about co-edited World Between Women, and has a book forth-
menstruating and Girl Boss: Running the Show Like the coming from Women in the Moon titled People Who Do
Big Chicks, a book to encourage entrepreneurial think- Not Exist (see Our Press). Burning Bush’s themes will
ing among girls. be gender equity and gender justice. You can write to
Until a couple of years ago Pam was a stock analyst Burning Bush Publications at PO Box 7361, Santa Cruz
in New York. Then she moved to California, took a job CA 95061; or phone 408-426-9172.
with a company that did business publishing, learning
as much as she could about publishing. When they Reality Check
decided to cut back on their publishing program Pam Last issue we wrote about Kasha Songer’s new
decided that the time was right to launch Girl Press. approach to financing The Book Garden — real estate
This press may be adult-owned but the books will sales. Midge Stocker gets this issue’s prize for creative
be girl-tested long before they reach print. Thanks to financing: she’s just finished computer programming
focus groups facilitated by Girls, Inc., girls have had a school and has a new job as a programmer for a
17 November /December 1997
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
sheetrock and ceiling tile company. Why this particu- crew. (Spinsters titles will continue to be available from
lar company? Because most of the people in the Bookpeople, Ingram, B&T, and other wholesalers.)
department telecommute 2-3 days a week — a situ- Spinsters isn’t the first publisher to leave
ation that would work quite well for a part-time LPC/InBook. Rising Tide has recently taken their
publisher. Third Side Press took a brief break from distribution back and is now focusing on selling
publishing every season when the returns madness books directly to bookstores on a non-returnable basis
set in, but it is back to regular every-season publishing (50% for 10+ titles), while keeping books at whole-
this Fall with The Mayor of Heaven. Published in hard- salers. (See the July / August issue, page 25, for more
cover, The Mayor of Heaven is the first Third Side title information.) Papier-Mache resumed handling their
to be reviewed in PW. own distribution early last summer. FBN has also
received word that three other publishers are leaving
Astarte Shell Closes LPC/InBook. More next issue.
It’s been hard to watch Astarte Shell Press closing
(see Letters, this issue). Nothing is ever simple — other Success!
contributing factors included life-decisions made by A&M Books is particularly pleased to be publish-
the three central women (one has gone on to a new ing their Fall title, Nina in the Wilderness, in both
career; the two who were “retired” decided that they paperback and hardcover. It is the first time that a Sarah
wanted to be retired) but there were also long-term cash Aldridge novel has appeared in cloth. A&M would like
flow problems rooted in the InBook bankruptcy, the to remind booksellers that A&M Books is now the only
. ineffective sales period just after LPC bought InBook, legitimate source for the Sarah Aldridge novels.
Lan Pd C / It nh Be o oi kn c r ise a s nin og t l y s e lf lir ne gq u e nn ut mly b- eh re sa r td h ac to m arp ela in ret m t oh teat ly Elsewhere...
comparable to pre-bankruptcy days for many pub- If you thought BEA was expensive...consider
lishers. Astarte’s survival, during this period (no this: The Books-A-Million chain runs “management
payments from Login for 14 months), was financed by seminars” at the BAM offices in Alabama for BAM
the steady stream of mail order customers. employees. Publishers are invited to “sponsor” vari-
Last time we talked to Astarte they still had ous events at a cost of $1,000 for a morning break,
several titles that they’d like to sell to other publishers $6,000 for lunch and $8,000 for dinner. Display tables
(or booksellers) at remainder prices. Astarte’s best- cost $1,000 /day (but, hey, you can get three tables for
seller, Celebrating Ourselves, for example, was featured $2,550)! Worried about reaching all the BAM employ-
in USA Today and a nationally syndicated column, but ees who can't attend? No problem — publishers can
still does not have a home despite steady mail order (also) buy a 60-second spot on a required-viewing
demand for the book. Only a handful of copies remain “product knowledge video” for a mere $600. Or an ad
and the book is ripe for republishing. Authors will also in the BAM Christmas catalog for $3,000. And those
be invited to buy-out their own books and some book are just a few of the “opportunities” publishers have
“relocations” are in the works. FBN will bring you the to drop money at BAM. Multiply these, may I say,
news as soon as the ink is dry on the contracts. “demands” by several other chains and it’s no
Closing down the press has been difficult, but wonder the corporate publishers have less and less
was the whole experience worth the ride? “Abso- money to spend at BEA/ABA. (And why do I suspect
lutely! We feel very good about what we did,” Debbie that if publishers who don’t choose to spend their
Leighton told FBN, clearly proud of the 13 titles that money this way (or don’t have this kind of money to
Astarte launched into the world. begin with) don’t get the same display and promotion
(and sales) that the big spenders get? One also has to
Distribution wonder what “separate but equal” parallel income
Spinsters Ink is the latest in a series of publishers opportunities are available to independent book-
rethinking distribution decisions. Effective January 1, stores. Are these sorts of things covered by ABA's
Spinsters titles will be distributed by Words, the new consent decrees...? The only remotely comparable
distribution program developed by the Bookpeople pay-outs would be the regional holiday catalogs.... O
18
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
2?
poes l Work
By Joan Pinkvoss/ Aunt Lute Books inventing a new distribution structure that creates a
and Carol Seajay more level playing field for feminist publishers and
feminist, gay and other independent bookstores —
Joan and I have been having an ongoing, something that might not exist yet, but that will serve
if fragmented, conversation about book distribution, us well over the next decade or two. We want to raise
returns, feminist publishers and bookstores, since some questions about what the landscape could look
FBN moved in next to Aunt Lute last February. like as feminist publishers and booksellers work
At Joan’s suggestion we sat down toward regaining our place in this
to have a deeper conversation and, shifting book world.
hopefully, to launch a dialogue among
the entire community of feminist book- In the following article, “Mathe-
sellers and publishers (and deeply mathics of Distribution and
concerned others). We've done our best Wholesaling,” we look at the distribu-
to capture our conversations in this tion system that has evolved during
article and the next (“Mathemathics of the lifetime of feminist publishing and
Distribution and Wholesaling”) and bookselling. If you are unfamiliar with
now invite your experience and ideas, how distribution works financially,
responses, proposals, suggestions, and booksellers you might want to skip to that article
points of agreement and disagreement, work toward and come back to this one afterward.
and the addition of other issues that we gn In this article, we'll look at the
haven’t raised here. Carol will compile regaining our place high cost of middlemen, the returns
ianng d i s spueusb loifs h F B Ny o (ulorn g cpoiemcems eanndts in upcom- in this shiftin g problem im(aplsacot osfe e s u pneerxchta i nas,r ttihcel e c),h a ntghineg
short pieces, paragraphs and free- impact of distributors in these times,
standing sentences). Visualize the the disappearance of feminist press
spontaneity of a good email dialogue identity, and we will suggest a few
and we're on our way. (Yes, of course, your comments alternatives. We'll even consider throwing out the
can be anonymous if that helps you to get your real whole system and starting something new. But most
opinion out there. Wild humor also welcome.) of all, we want to put out a simple, straightforward,
Our sincere hope in launching this conversation do-able, concrete proposal — one that came out of
is to raise questions, inspire discussions and encour- Joan and Carol's dialogue — and get your response.
age feminist publishers and booksellers to consider We want to know what both publishers and
November /December 1997
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
booksellers think of this proposal, and if it is an decline in income on each book, i.e. selling 8,000
answer — or even a starting point to inspire an copies of a book at $4.50 would be better for the
alternative that will work better for us in the decade publisher than selling 5,000 copies at $6.00. (8,000 x
to come. $4.50 = $36,000. 5,000 x $6.00 = $30,000.) The rest of the
equation was that, if the publishers are armed with
accurate sales projections and (better yet) solid
Joan's Proposal for an Alternative Structure advance sales figures, the publishers could increase
Given that no one seems inclined (or financially print runs accordingly and thus benefit from reduced
able) to invent a joint-distribution scheme (a new per-copy costs and increase their overall profit
wholesaler?) that could abide by policies that would margin. (The larger the print run, the lower the cost of
control returns and improve distribution, and that printing each copy.)
existing distributors have been unable to change their But what has gone awry is that the information
policies to resolve the situation, Aunt Lute wonders if from distributors is no longer reliable. Those extra
feminist publishers will be forced to pull back from 3,000 books that were placed by the distributor may
their distribution arrangement and forego whole- bounce back as returns and they may come back
salers and return to doing all of their own fulfillment damaged — and the publishers are still stuck with the
on a new discount schedule designed to reward stores larger printing bills.
for ordering direct and to control returns. Textbook
sales (at 20% discount) are a vital component of Aunt Sales (or the balance that is left after returns are
_ Lute’s income and this is reflected in this plan. The subtracted from sales) are declining for a number of
proposed schedule is as follows: other reasons, too:
50% discount non-returnable e chain stores are much less interested in “midlist”
40% discount 20% of books returnable books than in years past (having discovered that
20% discount fully returnable they don’t sell when stuck spine-out on non-
featured shelf space), so frontlist orders are smaller
We'll discuss the problems that this schedule is and/or returns are higher
designed to solve and some of the pros and cons in the e superchains are being allowed to return books they
next parts of this article. bought 2-3 years ago. (Not only is extending return
time for chains a problem for publishers, extending
this benefit to chains but not to independents is a
So Many Middlemen, So Little Money clear violation of the Robinson-Patman Act.)
Creating mega-structures like wholesalers and e superstore sales aren't offsetting the loss of sales to
distributors is expensive. And most of this money has the independents that have closed since the advent
come from publishers while bookstore discounts of superstores (see below)
have remained steady at 40% or improved a few • independent (and feminist) bookstores have
points. Publisher’s “share” of the book dollar has reduced ordering in effort to stay current with their
dropped from 60% in the good old everything- distributor /wholesaler bills in this increasingly
feminist-was-ordered-direct days to as low as 33% credit-tight industry
when books wend their way through both a distribu- e many stores have cut back on the number of
tor and a wholesaler on their way to the bookstore. backlist and frontlist titles they stock (as well as
(See next article.) This system, in conjunction with cutting back on the number of copies they stock of
chain buying, returns and other factors, further the titles they keep) as overall store sales decline
erodes publisher income. Some people (including at when superchains move in and cannibalize the
least one distributor) will argue that the entire con- sales in a town
cept of distribution was invented simply to generate e last but not least, there's the problem that when a
a larger revenue stream for wholesalers. feminist bookstore customer walks into a chain
The theory was that using distributors would store and buys books, the odds are that, even if she
increase sales by enough to offset the publishers’ buys the same number of books she would have
November /December 1997 20
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
bought on a trip to her feminist bookstore, fewer of corporate buyers. It’s easy to see how attention to
the books she buys will be feminist press books, publishers’ interests can become diluted.
given the differences in display, location, staff But the bind for publishers becomes this: if you
familiarity with the books, and handselling. don’t have a distributor, how are your books going to
At any rate, a declining percentage of an expand- be seen? With 60,000 books published each year, how
ing sale is one thing. A declining percentage of a do you present your books to the larger world when
shrinking sale is a crisis. our books so rarely make the big review lists?
Distributors and wholesalers, on the other hand One proposal is to revive the idea of doing a joint
have their own problems. Already trying to finance feminist-press catalog that would include the books
mega-structures on a slim margin, they are driven to from all of the feminist presses (and how/where to
try to meet their expenses by increasing gross sales order them), which could be used to sell books to
and becoming (ever) more efficient and cost conscious bookstores and to promote the books to reviewers.
— but some of these efficiencies are at the expense of This idea, of course, requires both a certain amount of
the publishers they serve. Attention is shifted to the money and someone to produce the catalog and main-
publishers with the most popular product. Less tain bookstore and reviewer mailing lists.
successful publishers may be dropped — or simply
lost in the shuffle as more and more publishers are
added to increase sales to the level that will support Feminist Press Identity
the company’s (growing) expenses. (Consortium’s list Stores that depend on reps to review the books
of publishers, for example, has grown from 29 in 1994 may simply never even “see” certain feminist press
to 49 in 1997.) titles. Stores “too small” or “too far away” never see
Furthermore, sales reps may or may not have the rep at all. (What percentage of feminist bookstores
been hired for their feminist commitment. But too see reps from each distributor even twice a year?
often reps working on commission have little choice Carol's guess — much as she'd like to be wrong — is
but to focus on the titles where they can get a two-digit that it’s well below 50%.) Some of these stores may not
initial order and skip less trendy titles even get these distributors’ catalogs.
that, in years past, would have sold Almost worse: these catalogs may be
steadily in ones and twos for years in the only information they see from
both general and feminist bookstores. returns would be many feminist presses. It is all but
(How many titles can a rep success- , inevitable that, when feminist pub-
fully introduce in a 30-minute many publishers lishers sign up for distribution, the
session? How many are on the lists? money that they used to spend on their
Depending on the rep and the store, own catalogs, on their own promotion
the titles that are skipped could be a and on paying for staff time to stay in
publishers entire list.) touch with bookstores now goes to
paying the distributors’ fees, to paying
Distributors and wholesalers are for their spot in distributors’ catalogs
caught in a difficult bind. Servicing and to time spent with sales reps.
high-end corporate stores may
require agreeing to whatever those companies What happens to the connection between femi-
demand: open returns, returns of damaged books, nist publishers and bookstores when the primary
shipping out books that everyone knows will be connection is a distributors sales rep or simply a few
returned and other compromises too delicate to list pages in a thick catalog? What happens to the press’
here — or losing the chains’ business altogether. identity when even the “publisher” name on the
Distributors may also feel required to make similar computer is reduced to the name of the handiest
arrangements with various wholesalers so that the distributor or wholesaler? Even five or six years ago,
wholesalers can maintain their business with large Carol thinks, a lot more books were stocked (then
November /December 1997
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
sold and reordered) simply because they were pub- distributors and wholesalers lack the staff and the
lished by a known (and therefore respected) feminist payroll budget to sort through huge returns, book by
publisher. The irony is that, in this era of “branding,” book, to pull out the damaged books, pack them to
many feminist publishers are less visible today to return to sender and redo the paperwork. It is much
what should be a core constituency than they were a cheaper and easier (for the distributor) to simply
decade ago. — And feminist publishers are much return the books to the publisher. Thus the burden of
less familiar with what is happening to their books the returns process — shipping the books back to the
in feminist bookstores. As we at FBN have worked publisher, damaged books, and often the distribu-
on the Feminist Bookstore Network catalog over the tor’s warehouse restocking fees — is at the
last few years, it has become painfully clear that publisher’s expense.
many mainstream publishers who have their own
sales reps who take information directly back to the Chainstores and Sales
company, are far more familiar with how catalog ads
affect their sales and their working relationships Most of the chains are cutting back on “midlist”
with their feminist bookstore customers than most titles. Returns of midlist books are up, while orders
feminist presses are. are down. Clearly most (all) of our books are “midlist”
(or lower) to all of the chains except, possibly, Borders.
If 1,000 Barnes & Noble stores can only sell 1,100
The Problem of Returns copies of two-time National Book Award nominee
| Returns have skyrocketed since the chains started Cynthia Ozick’s The Puttermesser Papers, then how
returning books rather than absorbing unsold books many copies of a book by an “unknown” feminist
into inventory expansion and as chains have gone writer can we expect B&N to sell?
public and had to be more accountable to stockholders. The big question here is: Do any of our books
Returns in the book industry are now running have a significant future in chain stores, or will the
between 35% and 45% (depending on who you ask), proliferation of chain stores simply mean that most
and higher in many situations. Statistics regarding the feminist and lesbian books will be available in fewer
source of returns are almost impossible to obtain but locations a decade from now than they were five
early last summer The Wall Street Journal reported that years ago?
most independents sell 80% or more of the books they
order while superstores sell less than 70% and There’s an odd way that all the expansion of
discounters sell about 60%. Return rates, of course, (chain) bookstores with their lowest-common-
vary tremendously by publisher and title. mentality approach to bookselling, and the corre-
Many publishers have experienced entire seasons sponding dislocation of independents and specialty
of negative-sales as chains (and some near-to-closing stores, may result in a re-creation of the mid-sixties
independents) return accumulations of backstock. The situation that led to the creation of feminist presses
chains’ disillusionment with selling small press and and bookstores in the first place: The then-existing
hsp ae s c i la el dty t om a lr ak rget e b reo to uk rs n s( n o ct o u pto le d m wen itt hio n s m li at le lr a br uy y sf i fct oi ron) s eu sp te er dst r u ic ntu r e n oo nf - mboo ak inse sll tin rg e a s mim p l Ay m w ea rsn i’ ct a i n bte or o- ks and
both corporate and independent (including feminist) couldn’'t/wouldn’t /didn’t stock such books out long
presses. Getting out from under returns would be enough for their readers (our communities) to find
many publishers’ most compelling reason for explor- them — if they stocked them at all. But if you think it
ing new sales and distribution options. was hard to find a lesbian novel in Cody’s in Berkeley
in 1970, try finding a good lesbian novel in a non-
The returns problem is further complicated by urban chainstore in 1997. As Alice Walker pointed out,
damaged books: as many as 50% of the books in large B&N used her picture in their promotion, but many
returns are too damaged or shopworn to resell. While of the stores that displayed the required picture didn’t
most distributor contracts specify that books must be stock any of her books. Are we going forward or
in salable condition to be returned, in practice, backward? Are we going to have to reinvent the wheel
22
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
all over again, or can we invent some systems to keep many of the above problems and tried to come up
what we've got intact — and continue to build on it? with solutions that would help both feminist book-
stores and publishers. One idea was to ask publishers
Who Cares? to create a 50% discount for non-returnable direct
orders (which would increase bookstore profit,
And now some more hard questions: increase publisher income and reduce returns) and to
Who is the constituency for feminist press books find a way to not sell books to superchains (so that
these days? Feminist stores? Gay stores? General feminist stores would have a unique group of books
independents? Some chains but not others? Some of not found in every chain store in town). Aunt Lute’s
each of a chain's locations but not the majority (i.e., proposal achieves most of these goals.
B&N puts National Book Award displays in only 400
of its 1,000 stores)? Given that no one seems to be inclined (or finan-
Are we being self-deceptive that we have a com- cially able) to invent a joint-distribution system (a
munity that cares that we aren't reaching or does that new wholesaler?) for all the feminist presses, would
community simply not exist anymore? Is it a matter of Aunt Lute’s proposed discount schedule work?
not having the audience or not being able to get to the 50% discount non-returnable
audience? How does this vary by type of book and 40% discount 20% of order returnable
audience? 20% discount fully returnable
As interest in gay/lesbian and queer books and Books would be available by direct order from
bookstores has increased, has atten- the publisher only. Bookstores could
tion to multicultural women’s litera- select among these discounts on an
ture, for example, declined? Does it order-by-order basis.
exist if it isn't queer? If This Bridge
Called My Back was published today, Using this kind of discount
would it receive the same attention would force publishers to leave their
that it received when first published? distributors and wholesalers because
Have feminist presses outlived these institutions won't (yet) use this
our time? How have presses that have of chain stores kind of schedule as they feel com-
committed to reaching “young” or ; pelled to accept open returns, all
new markets fared? Where are those simply mean timely returns and even damaged
books selling? that most feminist returns. So if publishers embrace this
i kind of schedule, it will force all femi-
S P | and lesbian books nist and independent stores to order
ome roposa s will be available direct from the publisher — for both
Can we create an alternative that frontlist and fill-in orders.
produces a more level playing field for
independent, feminist and gay book- How would this program work
stores? The proposals we have at hand for feminist bookstores? Independent
generate as many questions as solu- they were general stores?
tions. And that, gentle reader, is where Would you order direct from
you come in: What are your propos- five years ago? publishers to get these discounts?
als? What do you think of these Would it feel too risky to order new
proposals? How would you answer titles in quantity? Would stores order
these questions? Call, write, send email, and we'll direct from smaller publishers with fewer titles or
collect all of your responses in the next issues of FBN. non-bestseller titles? Are stores willing to place direct
orders with publishers?
During discussions at the Feminist Bookstore What if publishers augmented these terms with
Network Conference in May, booksellers discussed special delayed billing backlist offers that allowed
November /December 1997
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
stores to buy a 4—6 month supply of back stock with Conventional wisdom has it that if publishers
delayed billing (4-6 months) two or three times a year charge 80% for books (to get maximum income on
at the above terms? This would allow stores to stock textbook sales), total sales will decline. Aunt Lute’s
more backlist titles and to keep more copies on hand to experience, however, is exactly the opposite. In 1996,
replace weekly distributor runs for these publishers’ concerned that so many copies of Making Face were
titles — and presumably increase sales for everyone. going as 50% sales (presumably to B&N’s college
bookstores via Ingram), Aunt Lute made it a short
What if feminist publishers created an ordering discount book (20% discount) for 1997 — and sales on
consortium where the orders could be placed all at once this backlist title increased 15%. (B&N’s college stores
but the books were shipped from each publisher and just bought them at the textbook discount and
billed by each publisher? Would this make a significant marked them up.)
difference to booksellers or would stores prefer the While this decision generates needed revenues
direct approach of ordering from each publisher? for Aunt Lute, the cost is knocking the books out of
Do stores — feminist and otherwise — value some of the places Aunt Lute cares most about selling
small press and feminist press books enough to order them and it takes them away from some of the most
the books direct from the publishers? Can small important parts of their constituency. Going outside
presses handle fulfillment of orders? Can they turn the of the whole distribution/wholesaler system may be
orders around quickly enough? the only way around this dilemma. As Joan says, “It’s
tremendously dangerous for publishers to move
outside the distribution system, but to have B&N be
` Publishers Adopting This Program the winners is not acceptable, either.”
Face a Number of Risks Educating university bookstores and instructors
about how to get the books would take a lot of effort
If publishers do create an alternative structure and an expensive campaign — but the fact is that B&N
that bypasses Barnes & Noble and the other chains stores already tell instructors that feminist press
(and the cash flow that comes from those sales) what books aren't available when, in fact, they just aren't in
will the publishers get back from the independent the Ingram warehouse at that moment.
stores? Will the stores do in-store marketing on a scale
that m Hoak we s w u ilp l tf ho er st th oe r e slo s ls e a ro nf o abth ouer t o thut el e bts o? oks? Will Test Cases
publishers need to create some kind of joint catalog Beginning this Fall, Rising Tide pulled their
that features all the new feminist press books and books from distributors and started offering stores a
includes ordering information? 50% discount (non-returnable) to encourage direct
What about collections? Will feminist, gay and orders. Their books continue to be available through
other independent stores pay feminist presses in a wholesalers.
timely manner, or will indies pay distributors, whole- Naiad Press has offered 50% discount on direct
salers and other “big” accounts first and the “little orders for years. Naiad has never signed a full distri-
guys” last — or never? How many of “our” stores bution contract and does most of their sales to
would prioritize paying indie publishers first in order whaoletsale rs ind hiousse. t Threir i tibtlesu aret woidelry asvai.la ble O
to keep them alive?
books W toh i l de i f i ft e’s r e nn to t k l ie ng da sl of fo r b op ou kb sl tis oh re er s,s it to ’s r le ikfu els ye t to h a tsell Your Turn!
this kind of discount would discourage chains from Which of these ideas work for you, what
ordering (and returning and ordering and returning needs modification to work? What other ideas
and ordering and returning) books and destroying are you thinking about? Call, write, email...we
them along the way, while still facilitating the textbook really want to know what you're thinking!
discount sales that keep many publishers afloat. — Carol & Joan
November /December 1997 24
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
The Mathematic$
By Joan Pinkvoss/ Aunt Lute Books straightforward. Wholesalers stock books from a large
and Carol Seajay number of publishers and usually stock a relatively
large number of titles from the publishers whose
To understand how distribution works in the books they stock. Bookpeople, Koen, Alamo Square,
book industry today, and its impact on both booksell- Ingram and Baker & Taylor are all wholesalers.
ers and publishers, it is essential to understand the
business math: who gets how much money (and why)
and how that has changed over the last decade. If the publisher nets $3.75
that's less than the cost to
First, we need to define two everyday words:
“wholesaler” and “distributor.” produce the book.
Book wholesalers operate on the premise that
the booksellers already know about the books and
know what books they want. Basically, what whole- Distributors function as a kind of “club” provid-
salers do is warehouse books and sell them to stores ing many more services for a relatively small number
as the stores request them. It’s pretty simple and of (independent) publishers and provide promotional
and sales support for “their” publishers — services
Joan Pinkvoss, a graduate of the University of Iowa's that wholesalers don’t offer.
Fiction Workshop, was one of the founders of the Iowa City Distributors distribute (hence the name “distribu-
Women’s Press, one of the earliest (1972) and strongest of tor”) books to wholesalers, chainstores and other
the women-owned printing companies of the first phase of “national accounts” — such as Costco and warehouse
the Women-in-Print movement. The Press published two clubs — as well as selling them to bookstores. In
trade manuals for women as well as printing books for other exchange for these services, distributors get a percent-
companies and printing for profit. In 1982, with Barb age of all of these sales and an “exclusive” sales
Wieser, Joan founded Aunt Lute Books, in part to support agreement (the publishers cannot sell to bookstores,
the Iowa City Women’s Press. In 1986 she moved the press wholesalers, chainstores, to schools for course adapta-
to San Francisco, merging with Spinsters Ink for three tions, etc. All sales have to go through the distributor.)
years. In 1990, she recreated Aunt Lute as a non-profit to The exclusive agreement protects the distributor’s
focus on publishing underrepresented voices and view- investment in promotion, sales rep costs, cataloging, et al.
points. She continues to steer Aunt Lute towards the One of the powerful attractions of distributors is
creation of dialogue and discourse within the authors’ that each distributor provides a national sales force to
communities and across other communities. go out and rep the books to bookstores all across the
In addition to her training in writing and editing, Joan country. Some distributors provide a significant
has worked as a printer and as a master electrician to support amount of pre-publication advice re: the salability of
her commitment to women’s writing and publishing. a book, cover design and developing the sales pitch.
Volume 20 Number 4 25 November /December 1997
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Some distributors help to defray the costs of certain But publishers can tell the difference at a glance:
ads for certain books and provide other promotional different commitments, different services — and the
services as well. At the risk of stating the obvious: percentage the publisher receives for books sold is
distributors charge publishers more for their services significantly different.
than wholesalers because they provide more services.
LPC/I nP Bu ob oli ks h e arr es G alr l o u dp is t rW ibe ust t o r(P s.G W Di) s, t rC ibo un ts oo rr st i u dm o nan otd The Math
carry books from publishers they do not represent. OK, now the math: Who gets what. In the follow-
ing sections we’ll outline the four most common paths
Both wholesalers and distributors also provide a book can travel to get to the bookstore — and who
the nearly invaluable service of collecting payment gets how much money in each situation. To keep it
from bookstores and absorbing the losses if a store simple, we'll use a $10.00 book and assume that the
fails to pay, closes, goes bankrupt, etc. Distributors bookstore always gets 40%. Hint: The figure to watch is
also do all the collections and accounting for sales to the publisher's income. The bookstore’s income stays virtu-
wholesalers, national accounts, et al., which, histori- ally the same, regardless.
cally, have been a real headache for independent
publishers to do business with and collect from. $10 Book Sold Direct to a Bookstore
In theory wholesalers pay publishers 100% of by a Publisher
what's owed in 90 days (which allows them time to Let's start with the simplest (even if no longer
collect from stores before paying the publishers). common) situation. If a publisher sells a $10 book to
Distributors begin to pay after 90 days and spread the a bookseller at a standard 40% discount, the publisher
payment of the balance over the next four months as gets 60% of the $10 cover price which comes out to
a hedge against returns, so some payments can take as $6.00. The bookseller keeps 40%, or $4.00.
l ao nn dg t a hs e e pig uh bt li s hm eo rn t rh es c e ib ve et sw e pe an y m t eh ne t . time a book is sold Sto4re 0Who%lesaler D ist6ribu0tor % Publisher
$4.00 $6.00
Occasionally wholesalers and distributors co-exist
in the same parent company. Words Distribution is a
new distributor that is, basically, an offshoot of Book-
people. Words will provide distribution services for
publishers who want these services, but Bookpeople $10 Book Sold to a Store Via a Wholesaler
will continue to do wholesale. In those thrilling days Wholesalers generally get 15% of the cover price
of yesteryear, Inland was a wholesaler but InBook did when they get their books directly from the publisher.
distribution, all out of the same company and the Sao, ifw thhato slaemse a $l10e rbo.o.k. i s t sold to the store through
same facility.
From the booksellers’ perspective, the two kinds St4or0e %Who le sal1er 5 D%istri bu to4r 5Pu%blisher
so af m eo :r g yan ouiz a t ci ao lln s t hlo emok u— p, a tn ed ll o tf ht ee mn a wct h a t— y a ol um o wst a n tt h e and $4.00 $1.50 $4.50
they send it. Seeing the distributors’ rep, especially
for the smaller or more remote stores, may not enter
into the picture at all. On the other hand, some whole- Note that while the transaction looks about the
salers have reps in their primary regions, so simply same to the bookstore, which gets 40% in either case,
seeing a rep (or not) doesn’t necessarily make a com- the publisher’s income has dropped by $1.50 per book
pany a distributor instead of a wholesaler. Sometimes to $4.50. If this book is the “typical book” described in
a wholesaler’s telemarketing staff is more effective the Book Production Cost sidebar, the publisher can
(and helpful) than a distributors’ rep. Wholesalers still cover the fixed costs for the book and have a little
often publish catalogs and new-title updates. bit left over to put toward all of the other expenses.
November /December 1997 26
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
$10 Book Sold to a Store Via a Distributor
So, how does this picture change if the publisher Book Production Cost
uses a distributor? It’s hard to understand the impact of
The classic model for distributors is that the declining per-book publisher income unless you
distributor gets 25% of the amount they sell the book for have some idea what publisher expenses are.
(a.k.a. “25% of net”). If the distributor sells the book Book production costs vary tremendously, but
directly to the bookstore, it works out the same as if the we can still project some typical expenses for
publisher had used a wholesaler. And the publisher has, our $10.00 book — expenses that publishers
presumably, gotten a lot more services. So far so good! must cover with their $6.00, $4.50 or $3.37
per-book income.
' St or 4e 0 W %hole sa le 1r 5 Di %stri *bu to r 4 P 5ub %lisher Let's start with an average printing cost of
$2.00 /book for a small print-run title, maybe an
$4.00 $1.50 $4.50 average of $1.00 per copy for the remaining
production costs (i.e.typesetting, design, lay-out,
*Book sold to store at $6, so net = $6. Distributor's cut is cover art), and add $.50/book for shipping from
25% of net (25% of $6 = $1.50 or 15%). printer to the distributor or wholesalers. Add 7%
($.70) per book for royalties...
Just these “fixed costs” add up to $4.20 per
$10 Book Sold to a Store by a Wholesaler book. And then there’s salary, office overhead,
Via a Distributor promotion costs...and all of those other things
OK, now it’s going to get really interesting. that have to be covered.
Now we're going to look at what happens when
the distributor sells the book to a wholesaler and the If you ever noticed those requests from feminist
bookstore buys the book from the wholesaler. publishers asking bookstores to order their books
So, the distributor pays the publisher 25% of $5.00, direct from their distributors whenever possible, this
which is the net amount that the distributor collects is why: Publishers’ gross income drops by 25% when
from the wholesaler for the book. ($10 retail price minus bookstores order from wholesalers instead of the
$4.00 to bookstore minus $1.00 to wholesaler = $5.00) publisher’s distributor. That’s about as much as an
independent bookstore’s income drops when two
S 4to 0r %e W 1ho 0l %esa le r 1 2D .i 5st %rib *u t o 3r 7 P .u 5b %lisher superstores move to town....
$4.00 $1.00 $1.25 $3.75 So now you have the basic math of wholesaling
and know exactly who gets how much money in each
W+D income = $2.25 of the basic situations described above.
W+D % of income = 22.5% You've probably already noticed the shift in
income away from publishers. In the old pre-distribu-
*Book sold to wholesaler at $5.00, so net = $5.00. tion days, publishers received $6.00 (60%). Now, when
Distributor'’s cut is 25% of net collected from wholesaler a book is sold via a “double-deduction sale” — which
(25% of $5.00 = $1.25 or $12.5%).
has become the norm in many situations — the pub-
The publisher ’s share drops significantly as she is lisher receives only $3.75 (37.5%) of the book price.
now paying two middlemen. Wholesalers generally
get 10% when they get books from a distributor.
In the above situation, the publisher nets $3.75 But It's Not That Simple Anymore
(even less than the bookstore makes) and — now Chain stores started returning books in large
here’s the crux of the matter — less than it cost to quantities about two years ago. The patterns of these
produce the book. Suddenly it gets clear: where a returns create extensive expenses for publishers
bookstore orders its books has a significant impact on that, too often, outweigh the profit from the sales.
publisher finances. These patterns include returning cartons of books
27 November /December 1997
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
NEW FROM CITY LIGHTS BOOKS s th o a r me u t co h 3 o7 n. 5 % a ho ar n d$ f3 u.7 l 5 . o fT h bis o o kch s,a n bg ue t m wa hy e n n o 4t 0 % a m to ou n 5t 0%
or more of the books sold by the distributor shift from
CLOSE TO THE MACHINE: the higher paying category to the lower paying cate-
gory, the publishers net loss is significant.
Technophilia and
Its Discontents Furthermore, there are an increasing number of
situations where distributors are selling books at 55%
By Ellen Ullman discount to wholesalers (rather than the 50% sale
described above). In these cases the publisher ’s income
is reduced even more, to $3.37 (33.7%).
t“ eU cl hlm noa ln o g yw i t ot nil y w hsp icil hls w t —eh e P a u l bb l le ia d sn hes p e re n sa b d o . W”ut e e kt lh ye 50%, $B 3u .t 7 5 e v ise nn ' t a s es nu om ugin hg tt oh a rt u nm o as t p us bal le iss h ia nr ge cm omad pe a na yt .
H“C erom e p iu s t e gr r o p ur no dg r ta rm um the r as b oa ur te tr hem ata k win og rl d t -h me a kw ino gr ld a. nd I if s af ci tx ue ad l l yc o s lt os s i na gr e m “ oa nve er ya g we” i t h(s e ee v es rid ye b ba or o) k t h se o l dp u ab tl i s th he ir s
brilliant insider critique of it. The reader vibrates rate. But the story doesn’t stop here.
between delight and alarm on every page.”
—Stewart Brand
Presumably what offsets the low per-copy income
f r“ ueU c nl klm non ya in n .’ ”s g , m —ae m Rwo a ei r br n e ino cf g c , a l i a f Be s r ei d on u w c t t nh ioe n . e l Ie tc t r iso n aic ls o w o vr el rd y is a f anor d p thub ul si s h iner crs e ai ss e t th he eir ir a pb ril ii nt ty rt uo n ss e l sl o m than aty , m ino str ee a d c o op fies
paying $2.00/per copy (plus the other $2.20/copy for
$12.95 ISBN:0-87286-332-8 expenses) the publisher might end up paying $1.50 per
A@v(a8ila0b0le) f r2o7m4 -t7he8 2 S6ub,t e rfraanxe:a n (C5o4m1p)a n y847-6018 . copy f Bo ur t p wr hin att i n ig f, so hr e i df o e l su nc ’tk y s, e l$ l 1 . t0 h0 o s p e e r e x tc ro ap y c. opies?
If she prints 8,000, at $1.00 per copy — instead of
from frontlist buys that have never been opened printing 4,000 copies at $2.00/per copy — the $8,000
(and obviously never made it to the shelves), return- bill from the printer is the same, so if she winds up
ing and reordering the same book simultaneously selling only 4,000 of that 8,000-copy run, because the
(which reduces the chain’s current accounts payable chains returned a large part of their order, then the
but damages a lot of books) and returning books publisher has gained nothing and it has lost income
purchased two, three or as long as five years by selling the book at $3.75 instead of $4.50 — plus
previously — long after the publisher had assumed the publisher is also paying, in most cases, a restock-
sell-through and in violation of distributors’ and ing fee to the distributor on all of the returned books
wholesalers’ terms. and for shipping the damaged books back to the
So if a chain returns, say only half of the books publisher, books that she can’t resell because of the
they ordered on a frontlist buy, and if half of those damage. If the sales projections were less dramatic,
returns are damaged and cannot be resold, then the or if the cost of printing fell by only $.50/book, and
publisher is stuck with a lot of damaged books, the the publisher printed 6,000 copies at $1.50 for a
cost of which must come out of the sale: add another printer bill of $9,000, then the publisher also loses
$.50 to the printing cost of $2.00/per book to cover the money on the printer bill.
damaged / destroyed books. The supreme irony here is that, if the publisher
takes these damaged books to a local bookfair and
At the time when most publishers signed up for sells them as “hurts” to the public at a 50% discount,
distribution, a relatively high proportion of distribu- the publisher will make more per book selling the
tors’ sales were to bookstores (wherein the publishers damaged books than she can possibly make under
received 45% or $4.50). But as time has passed, a much any other form of distribution.
higher percentage of most distributors’ sales have
shifted to wholesalers which reduces the publishers’ What’s wrong with this picture! O
November /December 1997 28
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
đ e = l
mamaaa: (Yes, There are More!)
When we first opened Boadecia’s, we thought
about computers pretty much in terms of computer-
ized inventory systems such as Booklog. We'd had
lots of great conversations with the folks at Booklog
and got to see demos of it and other computerized
By Suzanne Corson inventory systems at ABA one year. We could see the
Boadecia’s Books/Kensington, CA benefits of such a system — who wouldn't? — but
boadbks@norcov.com couldn't justify making that kind of investment so
early in our store’s tenure.
Do you still wonder if you would/could really So we started very slowly. One of my business
use a computer? Is the thought of getting a computer partners had an old 286 speed computer with a mono-
for your store too overwhelming? Do you doubt you'll chrome monitor and dot-matrix printer at home that
be able to recoup the investment? Do you want to hold she brought into the store. The computer was affection-
off until you're ready to invest in a computerized ately known as “the doorstop,” since it was fairly
inventory system, such as Booklog or IBID? Or are you limited in what it could accomplish. But it did have
just tired of hearing about all the hype and want to sit WordPerfect, a word processing program, on it, so we
out the “computer thing” altogether? used this computer for our first newsletters, mailing
I'm sure you've heard all the arguments about labels, flyer creation, and other typewriter-style needs.
getting a computer, and you may have had lots of
customers ask you when you're getting your own Web You can start out slowly,
page. There have been great articles in FBN about
these issues, as well as in other trade publications such adding new components
as American Bookseller. Most folks have heard the con- when you can,
ventional wisdom “buy the best system you can
afford” — but, since there are new, better, faster, pret- taking advantage of each piece
tier, fancier machines available each day, this one bit of technology as
of “h e Bl up tf u l c” o m a pd uv tic ee r s i s a r e en o du eg fh in itt eo l y s c war oe r ta hn y io tn . e A! nd you it’s available to you.
can start out slowly, adding new components when
you can, taking advantage of each piece of technology We live and work near Silicon Valley, home base
as it’s available to you. If one of the pieces you start out of many of the big computer companies, so many of
with is a modem, you'll have two resources that are our customers are extremely computer literate. They
incredibly helpful: the World Wide Web (a.k.a. WWW were enthusiastically egging us on about getting a
or simply, “the Web”) and electronic mail (a.k.a. email), better machine with a faster processor and a better
two components of the Internet (“the Net”). printer. It actually felt like a lot of pressure, which we
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Later, as some of our customers were upgrading
When To Buy their personal computer systems, we were loaned first
There's a lot of buzz on the Web right now wa i t2 h8 6 - au p cg or load re d m-t oo n- ia t- o3 r8 .6 Ita n d w a t s h e nn o w g iv eae sn i e ra ft or ru e u s3 8 6 to
a tb wo ou t a rt th ice l e sp r i fc oe l l oo wf : computers.... Excerpts from maintain files, and processing was much faster. Some
of your customers may be making this upgrade jour-
“The computer hardware market is under- n ore y , b o t ro ro o, w s o s o mpe er h oa fp s t hth eie ry 'd o l db e e qw uii pll min eg n t t o t o l e gt e ty o yu o uhave
g m wo hai in in lg es t r ia ne a ch m ri es at sPo inCri gsc t it y nr pa in pcs oaf l wlo y er r m .s a tt Sai myo en ad r.. t. t U h coen nt si sl ua m m t eh e ri s sp r y aic le -ear, s m wt aa a nr cht te i d n t! e o ( aI af n d d d y o a a u M b h oa oa cv kine s t t o oa s r h ec , h i o nai n vc d ee n tb y oe o rt u yw e te sh yn i s n tka e m W y oi sun o d m o m ew i s g dh at y,
w soay fs t wbo au rg eh t d a et m th ae n dh eig dh hen id g h b -e pca ou wse e r(1 e) d t h e hardware you'll want to know that all but one of the commer-
and (2) they feared instant obsolescence if they c Di Oal Sl y o ra v a Wil ia nb dle o w b so . o k Os nt lo yr e o nin ev e in s t o mry ad es y fs ot rem Ms a r ciu nn t o so hn es.
b p coo le mu ]g p h j uut t s e t rl o w d to- one n ’t dd o n g e [e tea hdr e. i t r hT ] eo d j oa l bay [t, se ]s .t .h . .o w a Ane d sv e r ag , r r e[ a em t se uo s ls t tt op fe o t- hese S yo o u if m y igo hu t e wve an nt tu a tl oly s tt ah ri tn k o f y fo v wu i/ tl hl b a e W g io nin dg ow st h i ms a cr ho iu nt ee ., )
chbangeas, r nowg isa ai gnreat. t.im.e. ”to ge t :a hardware In mid-1995, I asked a friend who had a fancy
a a S c p c el eo cs st s : , T o 1h f e 6e m $ a [a 1 Mir l, ,t 0 B i 0 ]c w 0l e o R rV Ag da Mo l ue ,ps e r 1 oo P 6cn C e 6 s s s t [i o n Mt h g H,as ztu ] g s , pg a r re se es tt a a d ng dt r h ase rha a dt t e e tt f Psh o e, e r n r -e e tI n c .a tr ere net s m h m cy oau a ns r nt c d ne h y em ct t a o o e b ft d o o k u on t tus o oh rw t o h t w c he i u m ef s m t , I ow ne mb e t u eea rt r r nse W ean tl woe l yb t e o r nehp n aa e vg hie nie d in s. se ig d s W m t is o ne ae n cge hen .h i a n Hod a er en yh an g n,e oa o d r t ti ,td f m ilws ri eko sa tes so
tium, 1 GB hard drive, 8x CD-ROM. (Monitor not
included.) For $2,000 you can get a high-end mul- brought me to www.yahoo.com. This is a search direc-
t ui nm lee sd si a y oP uC . .. nb eu et d w toh y d rs ip ve en d a n t h ia nt v e m ntu oc rh y m syo sn te ey m? t la io n kr d ey s o eo nan r c t ht hh e e e n W I gn oit n re ler dsn e Wlt ik. ie d F e r i o t W,m e y b h o . ue r O e nc, a en a n o f fd i n to d ht h e a e nr fy i rtd h si tir ne gc tt h o iy nr oi ge u ss I
above A m es nec to ion nd e d a r “t eic nl te r ys u g leg ve es lt s P Cth s”a t m t ah ye wpr eli lc e d io pf the wt ary a ep s e d cr a e l w li en a d r . dw e Fa d rs o mwle i s t b h ti h a n em r eab ,n o yo I k s s“, uh r ita fn s e,d d” e aa wv s e a n yt h ! ea t f oth unat d e ea nr tly ri e sdate
t to im eb e l bo ew t w $ e7 en00 n b oy w C ah nr di s t tm hea s e nan dd o fad v ti hse es y “ eb au ry ,” a an dy d- ing One of the ways the Web works is that it’s all
c r“ ht oh la lne s g en o] ue x tw t o t n wb 'i otg c ni on em wfl e e c v t u ei n ro stn ii ol np sso pi n r oit fn g [ t p h o o es f s i P b 1 el 9 ne 9 t 8 ip u r mwic he e IIn .” Intel c p wo a on g ren d,e sc . tt he Ld e i, r k e e l i k w de ii g l l r a e b s s sep i n i ed gie tr h i' ns e r W a h e i cb g o. h n l vW ig erh h se t an e td i o y noo ,r u ' yr ue on u d o e n cr al nio nn ee d
—Jesse Berst at http: / d/ ew skw /w st. ozd ryn /et s. tc oo rm y/ _a 1n 3c 4h 2o .hr t- mi c tl oi c k an oo tn h e o rn e p a gof e tt oh e s fe i n d“l i n ok us t, ” m a os r e t h ie ny f' or re m k atn io ow n n , a b oan utd go
that subject. As an example, a paragraph of text on one
Web page about writers may read:
didn’t really need, since running a bookstore is Many great writers of the early twentieth century
certainly enough pressure, as we all know! But two of spent time in Paris. Some of these include Gertrude Stein,
the three of us were fairly computer literate from our Natalie Barney, and James Baldwin.
pre-bookstore days, so we, too, knew the limitations See how these three writers names are under-
of what we had and we knew what we could do if we lined? This means you have a few choices. You can
had a faster, bigger system. The mantra “it was free” either keep reading the page you're on about early
helped us love that old 286 during these days...and 20th-century writers, or you can click on one of the
we did publish a perfectly respectable newsletter with underlined names to find out more about that particu-
it. So if this is the kind of system you have access to at lar writer. Your Web browser, the utility that helps you
first, go for it! navigate the Web, will keep track of the pages you
November /December 1997 30
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsSelected Bibliography: Press Gang WWw.pressgang.bc.ca
Gay & Lesbian Online: The Travel Guide to Digital Publishers Marketing Association
Queerdom on the Internet, the World Wide Web, et Wwww.pma-online.org
al., 2nd edition, Jeff Dawson. ($16.95, Peachpit.) Random House Wwww.randomhouse.com
Net Chick: A Smart-Girl Guide to the Cyberworld, Routledge itp.thomson.com.routledge
Carla Sinclair. ($19.95 pb, Holt.) Sage Publications WWw.sagepub.com
Surf Le ar uG rr er l l s G: ilL bo eo rk t E &t h Cel r! y sA tn al I Kn it le er . n (e $t 1 5 G , u Sid eae l . )for Us! Simon & Schuster Wwww.simonandschuster.com
A Woman's Guide to Online Services, Judith Spinifex Press WWW.peg.apc.org./~spinifex
Broadhurst. ($19.95 pb, McGraw Hill.) Stonewall Inn (St. Martin’s Press)
Wwww.stonewallinn.com
Selected Web sites:
Lists: Feminist Publishers in Asia
(Note: your Web browser probably inserts WWw.peg.apc.org/~women/asiapublish.html
the “http://” for you) Lists: Publishers Worldwide
Bookseller Related Sites: www.lights.com/publisher
List of feminist bookstores in U.S. and Canada Other Business Resources:
www.igc.apc.org/women/bookstores/ Federal Express www.fedex.com
(You're probably on this list, even if you don't have
a computer!) Small Business Administration WWw.sba.gov
Feminist Bookstore Catalog www.FemBookNet.com United Parcel Service WWW.ups.com
American Booksellers Association United States Postal Service WWW.USps.gov
Wwww.bookweb.org Women’s Business Resource Site
BookWire Wwww.bookwire.com www.athenet.net/~ccain
& www.bookwire.com/index/book-resources.html
R.R. Bowker (Books in Print) www.bowker.com Other Lesbian Sites:
Publishers Weekly www.bookwire.com Amazons Online WWw.amazon.org
Sisters in Crime www.books.com/sinc Isle of Lesbos Www.sappho.com
Lesbian.org www.lesbian.org
Women’s Review of Books ww.wellesley.edu/
WCW/CRW/WROB/welcome.html Other Women’s Sites:
Non-Book Vendors: National Organization for Women wWwww.now.org
Ladyslipper Music ww.ladyslipper.org Feminist Majority Foundation Wwww.feminist.org
Wolfe Video www.wolfevideo.com Women’s Web Wwww.womweb.com
Dan Kaufman Graphics www.dkgraphics.com Women’s Wire WWw.women.com
Publishers: Web Directories & Search Engines:
Calyx WWw.proaxis.com/—~calyx Alta Vista www.altavista.digital.com
HarperCollins www.harpercollins.com Excite! WWW.excite.com
HerBooks Wwww.igc.apc.org/herbooks InfoSeek www.infoseek.com
New Victoria www.opendoor.com/NewVic Lycos Wwww.lycos.com
31
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
visited, so if you wanted to go find out more about looking it up in a clunky directory. You can go to a
Gertrude Stein, you could do that, and then come back search engine, such as www.excite.com, and type in
to finish the page you started on, or come back to click United States Postal Service or even just Post Office,
on Natalie Barney to find out more about her. and yov'll find matches to choose from. Or if you're
feeling adventurous, you can try to guess, based on the
Most major companies and many smaller ones URL convention above: www.usps.gov would take you
have Web sites. (Basically, a Web site is a collection of right to the post office Web site.
Web pages, though the terms are often used inter- What you can find on the Web is practically lim-
changeably.) Many times the addresses of the Web sites itless. You can compare shipping rates using the
are intuitive, once you know the format. Most online rate calculators at the FedEx and UPS Web sites
addresses, also known as URLs, or Universal Resource (www.fedex.com & www.ups.com); find out what book
Locators, are divided into at least three parts, separated was discussed on Terry Gross’ “Fresh Air” program
by periods, known as “dots.” The first is usually on National Public Radio (www.npr.org, then click
“WWW” for World Wide Web. The second is usually “Programs,” then click “Fresh Air,” then click on “Past
some form of the name of the company, the part that’s Fresh Air Programs,” and fill in the date you're look-
most intuitive. The third is an extension, of which, ing for when prompted); look at a vendor’s product if
currently, there are only a few. The most common are: you can't put your finger on their catalog when you
“com” for a (commercial) business; “org” for a non- need it (e.g. www.wolfevideo.com); find out what
profit organization; “edu” for someone affiliated with upcoming releases are coming from a particular pub-
. a school; and “gov” for a government affiliation. (Keep lisher (e.g. www.sealpress.com).... Many publishers,
these extensions in mind for the upcoming discussion authors, book distributors, and magazine distributors
on electronic mail!) So let's say you wanted to check a have Web sites that give you access to information
zip code online, rather than calling the post office or about their companies 24 hours a day.
The Small Business Administration Web site
(www.sba.gov) has lots of information for small busi-
RNAVENWOOD CO., LTD. nesses, including special information for businesses
PAAA A owned by women. There are a myriad of sites by and
for women; a good place to start is Women Online at
T www.women.com. For lesbian sites, begin with Amy
N Goodloe’s wonderful www.lesbian.org or Amazons
Online at www.amazon.org. Keep up with political activ-
ism at such sites as www.now.org where you'll find the
National Organization for Women and www.feminist.org
for the Feminist Majority Foundation’s home page.
Now for my guilty, uh, ur...resourceful secrets! If
you can afford it, R. R. Bowker publishes Books in Print
on CD-ROM, so you can use your computer to inter-
face with this great resource! If you can't or don’t want
to plunk down the money for that valuable, but oh-
so-pricey reference, there are places on the Web that
will get you similar information. Many college, uni-
in AC Nan dd l Ie ns c, e nP se er s o Fn oral OC va er re 1P 4R O Yd EU AC RIS . versity, and public libraries have their card catalogs
online. Doing research for yourself and/or customers
Vaf Botanical Teas, Salves å Tinctures is a snap using these catalog’s subject guides. But
Visualization Tools, Premium Incense what if you need an ISBN or price for a book? Use the
Votives, Candles in Glass & Tins resources that have been built on our hard-working
Oils, Bath Salts, Soaps, Body Powder backs — the online conglomerate bookstores:
November /December 1997 32 Volume 20 Number 4
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
www.amazon.com (Amazon.com, the company that online services such as America Online (AOL) and
took the name of the oldest feminist bookstore in the Microsoft Network (MSN), so I won't go into those
U.S. The real Amazon Books can be found online at details here. Basically, we chose to support a customer
www.amazonfembks.com) or www.barnesandnoble.com who has supported us, and an independent business
(guess who?) and www.books:com (Book Stacks, Inc.). as opposed to a conglomerate.] When we signed up
As much as I hate to admit it, Amazon.com's site is with this ISP, besides getting “mailboxes” for each of
especially useful since it lists out-of-print books, too. us, we also got one for the store. This meant the store
Sometimes their pricing information is out-of-date, now had email access, which has been a huge help!
but I've never had a problem with the ISBNs. (I'd also
like to point out that many of our customers use these
sites to find out about forthcoming books by their
favorite authors and then order them from us!)
You do not need an extra-fancy computer to
access the Internet. You will need a modem, though, We're on Pacific Time, while many publishers,
and the faster the modem, the less time you'll wait for authors, and other contacts are on the East Coast. Some
the information you want to download. At this time, are in different countries. Being able to write to folks
56K modems are all the rage, but truthfully, you'll do all over the world, 24 hours a day, is incredible! You
just fine with a 14,400 bps (bytes per second) or 28,800 have written documentation of all of your online “con-
bps modem, unless you're planning on downloading versations,” so there's not as much confusion as there
a lot of images. is when relaying phone messages. And there’s no long
Soon after taking the initial baby steps onto the distance charge! The charges for online service vary,
Web, my girlfriend bought a computer for our home in but many are similar to ours: we pay $25 a month.
February 1996. This purchase was researched for over Quite a bargain, considering you get access to all the
a year, and the “buy the best you can afford” theory resources on the Web, as well as email and Web site
was definitely in effect. She purchased a Pentium 100 privileges! (I should also mention that many ISPs and
MHz with Microsoft Windows 95 and a software “suite,” other online companies often give you the software
or group, of programs called Microsoft Office 95 Profes- you'll need to get started. Our ISP gave us a version of
sional. It included Word, a word processing application; Netscape Navigator for our Web browser, and Eudora
Excel, a spreadsheet program; Access, a database pro- Light for our email program. Commercial versions of
gram that can be used for creating inventory files and these and other similar products are also available.)
mailing lists; and PowerPoint, a graphics application. I really like the fact that I can write to publishers,
We also got Microsoft Publisher, which is a desktop publicists, and authors when it’s convenient for me,
publishing application. (Now there is a wonderful, less and know that they'll be reading their email when it’s
expensive option called Microsoft Office Small Business convenient for them. Scheduling readings has become
Edition. This replaces Access with Publisher and also so much easier! Though we often play email tag in-
includes a program called Scheduler+ which is great stead of phone tag, it all usually happens much
for creating work schedules, event schedules, etc.) The quicker (and cheaper!).
machine she purchased also had an internal modem at Email can also be used to publicize events. In the
14,400 bps. San Francisco Bay Area where we are, there are several
One of our store's customers has his own Internet email mailing lists that are kind of like online news-
Service Provider company. This kind of company, ab- letters. We can send our events to these lists and several
breviated as ISP, provides access to the Internet, the hundred people will see them. (Be sure to check with
Web, and email. Most also provide some space on their the list administrator of a list you're thinking of posting
server for you to have your own Web page — when to if it’s okay that you post these events. Some do not
you're ready! You don’t have to rush into this right allow the posting of for-profit events, so if you charge
away. [Books such as A Woman's Guide to Online Services admission, you might not be able to use these.) Even
explain the differences between local ISPs and bigger some of the papers that we send press releases to about
33 November /December 1997
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Depending on how ambitious you want to be,
you could conceivably publish different versions of
your newsletter via email — one for mystery fans, one
W Signs of Pride for sf/f, etc....and send them only to those customers
P.O.BOX 762 who h a Ov ne e e nx ip cr ee s es med a i li n rte er soes ut r c ein i st h oo us re s vu eb rj ye c t os w. n FB-Net
SIMPSONVILLE SC 29681 list. This is a mailing list started by Carol and the folks
at FBN to connect all of us online feminist bookstores
together. In the past, this list has been used for asking
DECALS we offer the each other questions about certain books, publishers,
widest selection of Gay/Lesbian vendors, or distributors; for sharing tips on handling
certain situations; for chatting about particular
static cling decals including: events; and getting up-to-the-minute notice (earlier
Rainbow Pride than mail, that is) of changes and updates to the
annual FBN catalog.
Pink Triangle There used to be two good mailing lists: one for
Black Triangle w ono em e cn a ll ef de m “i Bn ois ot k f p ieu nb dli ss ”h e fr os r c a fl el med i n “ isB to o ak nB da b e les s” b ia gn ayd trans
Rainbow Triangle booksellers, publishers, authors, publicists, ete...
4 4 4 4 4 Rainbow decals with T loh ce ay te d m aa y s er re v- ee rm e tr og e h ot sh ti s t hf ea mll, . a Ws a tC ca hr o l t h t eh sein k ps a g s eh s e f oh ras
silhouette of each state more information!
Eventually, Vina, one of my business partners,
Great quality, good prices and purchased a computer, color monitor, and inkjet printer
super fast service. Free wholesale for the store. Again, lots of research took place, and we
and retail catalogues. g anot M t Ch Ae b 1e 6s 6t Mw He z c o Pu el nd t i uaf mf o r wd i. t h W e a 2sp 8e ,8n 0t 0 a mbo ou dt e m $ ,2 , 3 a0 0 f af stor
864-862-7833 CD-ROM drive, Windows 95, etc. The price included a
FAX: 864-862-6944 color printer and a 15" monitor. (MCA is an “off brand,”
and so a little cheaper. We've had some problems that
took longer to fix than we wanted, but we think that
was primarily a problem with the local office.) There are
our events prefer getting these listings by email. They a lot of decent systems out there for about $1,000, or
can save them all up in a file and then “cut and paste” figure $1,500 if you need a monitor and a printer. For
the text from the email message into their word process- this price you should be able to find a 133 MHz Pentium
ing program. You save copying and postage costs! with a 28,800 modem and Windows 95.
If you have customers who have email, you can With our new computer we can access the store's
notify them of when their special orders are in or if a email right at the store and use the Web there as well.
book by their favorite author has arrived. Customers We have several virtual filing cabinets worth of infor-
with email can also contact you 24 hours a day to ask mation on the computer, from customer records to
questions, special order books, make reservations for copies of orders, our mailing list, and our newsletters.
events, and the like. Stores can also publish an online Someday, we'll get Booklog and have a point-of-sale
version of their newsletter (again, saving copying and terminal, online inventory, and all that jazz. But by
postage costs). Warning about email, though: it's taking baby steps, we've come a long way from that
generally just basic text. You can't underline titles, use 286 “doorstop,” at a pace we could handle, at prices
bolding or italics, or have graphics. So this means you we could afford at the time, while having a wealth of
may need to reformat your print newsletter into a in afo r m dati aon y an .d re Ysou orc ues a t c ou ar n fi ,ng e rt tips o, o24 ! ho u Ors
simpler version before you send it out online.
November /December 1997 34
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
By Jacqueline Dumas they are gaining a larger say in what is published.
Orlando Books/Edmonton AB, Canada HarperCollins has canceled 100 forthcoming titles
fromits lists, many of them because not enough copies
As I write, I've just received an invitation to were ordered in advance to please the publisher’s
attend the opening of the new Chapters Bookstore — bottom line. But it’s not just new titles which are
business attire (do I wear an Orlando Books t-shirt?) affected. Backlist titles seem to be disappearing with
and RSVP to a Toronto phone number. Although curi- alarming frequency, declared out of print — titles by
ous to see what all the fuss is about, and tempted to Judy Grahn, Jane Bowles — all so Jay Leno can get a
further embellish my t-shirt with a bold I Am Not $4 million advance for a nonbook to be featured in
Afraid message, I've decided to finish the newsletter, every superchain in North America? Are we seeing
and to think again about the whole issue of large fewer titles being published, but in larger quantities?
corporations and small businesses.
Our city has the reputation of being one of the
best book cities in the country. Since Mel Hurtig’s first lVe just received an invitation
bookstore, the independents, including the excellent to attend the opening
second-hand stores, have established locations on and
around Jasper Avenue and Whyte Avenue — in the of the new Chapters Bookstore —
heart of the city. One could say they are the heart of the business attire.
city. Chains have proliferated in the malls and in the
outskirts. Now we have the superchains moving into Do I wear an Orlando Books
the periphery, first on the south flank, with three t-shirt?
planned forays from other directions. Is this a war? I
don’t know, but it seems to me that independent,
community-centered bookstores are more important Carol Seajay of the Feminist Bookstore News has
than they have ever been. pointed out that in the U.S., the expansion of super-
Ten years ago the main market share of book- stores (with direct aid from large publishers) has not
stores was in the hands of the independents. Now the translated into more book sales, but into a diffusion of
numbers are reversed with chains controlling the bulk sales, with books being used as “wallpaper” for these
of the retail book industry. The August 12 edition of huge stores, resulting in huge returns to the publish-
The New York Times reported that Grove Press ers, in some cases as high as 70%. Here in Canada, this
approached Barnes & Noble for its opinion of a forth- situation has meant problems for some bookstores, as
coming title by Jerry Leiber. Barnes & Noble HarperCollins earlier this year decided to stop ship-
responded with “a tepid response,” i.e., an order for ping books to independents (not chains!) whose
1,200 copies, at which point the title was canceled. Is returns were over 40%. And in the U.S., again reported
the day now upon us when a few buyers from a few in the Feminist Bookstore News, Macmillan has recently
superchains are determining what is to be published? announced that it will no longer do business with
As the chains gain a larger share of the market place, stores with whom they do less than $10,000/year (no
35 November /December 1997
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
exceptions for special orders) — eliminating many inde- A superchain can try to disguise itself as a giant
pendents in a single sweep. Translation: an increasingly community bookstore, with interest in local poets
inefficient book industry is foisting the blame for its and thinkers. But beware: if the superchain doesn’t
inefficiencies onto the smaller independents. reach its bottom line, it will change the mix of books
A superchain will carry whatever books it can sell until it makes the money it wants to make. It might
at the moment, whether they be romances, feminist discount titles until other stores can’t compete, and if
books, anti-feminist books, Paul Bernardo books, gay it still doesn’t make enough money, it will close the
books — as long as they can sell them, it will stock outlet. And where does that leave the local poets and
them; the moment they are no longer popular, it will thinkers if the independent bookstores have long
return them. On the other hand, if I can't keep going gone? Where are the lovely local stationers we once
selling the kind of books I believe in, I may struggle had on Jasper and Whyte? We have to get in our cars
harder, but I won't stop carrying books by bell hooks, and drive to the giant office supply monopolies,
or Gail Scott, or Di Brandt, or David Leavitt. And I will which have now reduced their choice of products,
not carry books like The Bell Curve or magazines like raitsed h theire priicers, a nd bys thte laookfs off it, . r edu cedo
Alberta Report even if I can sell 100 copies of each.
Settlement, continued from page 8. year, caving in to the pressures from chains and other
for independent booksellers in their dealings with favored buyers, sometimes on the basis, we were told,
.trade book publishers,” adding, “The settlement that FTC had not yet specifically interpreted the law for
sends a message to the entire publishing commu- publishers.... But a series of seven consent orders, $25
nity that federal law requires a ‘level playing field,’ million in settlement, and $2 million in legal fees is,
that the law must be observed scrupulously...and frankly, far more than the FTC would likely ever have
that there are very serious adverse consequences for achieved had it proceeded,” Jacobs concluded.
publishers that are cavalier or callous regarding The FTC inexplicably dropped its 17-year
compliance with the law.” proceedings against seven of the largest U.S. book
She also stressed that the settlement “demon- publishers last year and refused to complete the
strates Penguin's commitment to treat independent process or issue guidelines for publishers.
booksellers with the respect they deserve. Penguin, Domnitz also recalled that, at the beginning of the
which is now operated by almost entirely new senior lawsuit, “We were severely maligned. I remember-
management, should be applauded for its voluntary sitting with my colleagues in a room filled with
decision last spring to permit ABA to conduct the opposition lawyers who were heaping invective upon
investigation which lead to this settlement, as well as us. We were called irresponsible and criminals. We
for the settlement itself.” didn’t know the business. We were infantile, and we
Discussing the settlement, ABA counsel Jerry were going to destroy publishing as we know it for no
Jacobs stressed, “This is by far the largest antitrust good reason. Those were the nice things they said.”
discrimination settlement ever, in the 60-year history But the bottom line for Domnitz and everyone
of the antitrust discrimination laws. We are unaware who has supported the lawsuits is, as he explained,
of a recovery of any [antitrust recovery] that exceeds a this message to the entire book publishing industry:
million or two million dollars.” “You're not dealing with only the individual plain-
He added that it would be difficult to overstate the tiffs but with all of the independent booksellers that
significance of ABA's settlement in terms of antitrust belong to the [ABA]. We represent a significant
discrimination law, which the government has failed to market share in this industry, and we’re claiming the
enforce: “ABA, struggling for the survival and prosper- moral high ground. There is a grand tradition of
ity of its members, did what the FTC couldn't — or bookselling in the American culture and [with these
wouldn't — do,” he told BTW. “For nearly two lawsuits] we said, simply, that we were not going to
decades, publishers looked to the FTC for ultimate ben cheeaetedd osut o f t ouor bi rtbhriegh t. Wde owinll deo . w”ha t o
guidance on compliance with the law while, year after
November /December 1997 36
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Moh
Compiled by Jenn Tust with Carol Seajay that allows publishers with fewer than ten titles to be
stocked by Ingram. Before officially joining the pro-
The Union Institute Center for Women is accept- gram, publishers are tested: the publisher sends
ing applications for its third annual Audre Lorde Ingram four free copies of each of its titles, which must
Legacy Award and for the new Audre Lorde Fellowship have the ISBN on the back cover, a Bookland EAN bar
for Women of Color Writers/Activists. The Audre code on the back cover, title on the spine and price
Lorde Fellowship Award includes a month-long resi- marked clearly on the cover. Two copies of each title
dency at Norcroft: A Writing Retreat for Women and a will be stocked in Ingram’s two large warehouses —
$1,000 stipend. This fellowship is made possible by a in LaVergne/TN, and Roseburg/OR — for six
gift from the Harmony Women’s Fund (MN). The months, allowing Ingram to gauge demand. If
Center for Women will also award its $3,000 Audre demand is sufficient, Ingram will then establish “a
Lorde Legacy Award to an individual or organization trial business relationship with the publisher.” Ingram
doing exemplary work, which meshes scholarship and recommends that publishers promote and market the
activism for the benefit of women and/or girls. For titles actively and rely on PMA for support. For more
more information or to receive an application (specify information, call 615-793-5555, ext. 7584, or on the
award or fellowship) send SASE to: The Union Insti- Web (www.ingrambook.com). —Infofrom PW Daily
tute, Center for Women, Attn: Diana Onley-Campbell,
1710 Rhode Island Ave. NW #1100, Washington DC UIA
20036; 800-969-6676, Web (www.tui.edu/ ~osr).
Small Publishers Co-Op is an organization of 250 OutWirite 98, the seventh annual (usually) queer
zine, comic, newsletter and catalog publishers. SPC’s writers conference will be held February 20—22, in
main focus is ganging press runs together to take Boston at the Sheraton Hotel in Copley Square. Keynote
advantage of the membership’s combined buying speakers will be Pratibha Parmar and Craig Lucas. $65
power, cutting members’ printing costs by as much as pre-registration through December. For more informa-
60%. Members can do newsprint as well as glossy tion, call Mia Anderson at 617-262-6969, ext. 3.
covers and white bond interiors, and a full spectrum of
publication lengths and sizes. Costs for 1,000 16-page The Women’s National Book Association is cele-
newsletter, zines, or comics can be as low as $240. brating its 80th anniversary by publishing a list of
Members include Desert Moon/NM, Dagger/CA, “Eighty Books for 21st Century Girls.” Books range
Fat?S0o!/CA. For more information contact: Scott McIntire, from Madeline to Just Us Women and The Library, as
Small Publishers Co-Op, 2579 Clematis Street, Sarasota well as including The Nancy Drew Mysteries and
FL; 941-922-0844, email (spcoop@netline.net). Sexual Harassment: High School Girls Speak Out. It is OK
with WNBA to reproduce the list for distribution, as
Ingram Book Co. and the Publishers Marketing long as appropriate credits are given. Alternately,
Association have started Ingram Express, a program See Announcements, page 48.
37 November /December 1997
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsANCIENT WISDOM FOR MODERN TIMES
Listening to the Oracle
Dianne Skafte, Ph.D.
| Dianne Skafte, Ph.D., leads a wondrous tour through the rich
| LISTENIN G tradition of oracles, gleaning the steps necessary for reclaim-
ORACLE ing this ancient source of guidance and illumination.
The t hAe n cSii!gns ent a nAdr t S yomf bFoilns d iAnlgl AGruoiduanndc e U isn “Provocative and original. Essential reading for anyone seek-
ing to penetrate the mysteries of human consciousness.”
—ROBERT JOHNSON, author of He, She, and We
IANNE SKAFTE, PH.D.
Altars Made Easy
Peg Streep
A faded photo, a trinket, a sea shell, a feather—you may
not know it, but objects such as these placed in a particular
fashion on your mantel or your desk are examples of
personal altars. Let this comprehensive guidebook show
you how to create your own powerful and sacred space
using materials meaningful to you.
The Pagan Book of Living and Dying
Starhawk, M. Macha NightMare, and the Reclaiming Collective
PAGATI
BOOK Let Starhawk and friends teach you the Pagan practices for
OF . helping your loved ones cross over.
LİVİTG
“Absolutely superb . . . I love the simple and elegant writing,
and the way death is described in relationship to the cycles of
the natural world. Enormously comforting.”
—MARGOT ADLER, author of Drawing Down the Moon
SENE Eao
November /December 1997 38 Volume 20 Number 4
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Compiled by Jenn Tust
' Raising Peaceful Children in a Violent World by
Nancy Lee Cecil. This is for parents and teachers who
want to end violence and create a safe, peaceful envi-
ronment for children — in the home, in school, and in
the community. Brimming with suggestions and
examples for teaching children to become peace-
makers. Wonderful ideas and lots of encouragement.
$16.95, 1-880913-16-X, Innisfree.
The Science Book for Girls and Other Intelli- | wonderful, long glances into a Vietnam they didn’t see
gent Beings by Valerie Wyatt and Pat Cupples. on TV in the 70s, and subtly illuminates coming of age
Absolutely wonderful — don’t miss this one. Dem- | balanced (or unbalanced) between two cultures. But
onstrates that science is fun, and that it’s for girls. what has haunted me, for the several months since I
This was a hit at our family reunion, both with the | read it, is its telling exploration of exile: what does it
pre-teen young woman we thought was the target mean to be exiled from one’s own country, from a
audience, and with the boys and adults also! $8.95, home that one can’t (ever?) return to and, most of all,
1-55074-113-6, Kids Can Press. —Dorothy Holland how exile, so very often, begins in the very home that
is left, in the class and cultural clashes of the hearth and
Coming across Sally Gearhart’s wild story of | heart. I've often wondered why lesbians and gay men
how she came to own a pit bull in Storming Heaven’s so rarely write of exile but found, in Monkey Bridge,
Gate: An Anthology of Spiritual Writings by | exactly the story I had looked for, just as rich with
Women, got me hooked into reading the other sixty | complexity and contradiction as I had dreamed. $23.95
pieces. Several others are just as riveting, such as cl, 0-670-87367-5, Viking. —Carol Seajay
Joanna Macy's experience with a fly in her tea among
Tibetan refugees in India, and Gene Zeiger ’s explora- Avast ye! If you've ever had a hankering to don
tion of “the little bit” that’s missing. It’s an incredibly | some breeches and a pegleg and set sail on the mighty
varied assortment of personal essays, stories and | Caribbean, Women Pirates and the Politics of the
poems covering the widest possible definition of | Jolly Roger by Ulrike Klausmann, Marion Meinzerin,
what might be considered spiritual, from every | and Gabriel Kuhn is the book for you! The book is
source of inspiration. The authors are of many races, divided into sections — the first, by Klausmann and
religions and spiritual paths. Editors Amber Coverdale | Meinzerin, gives us the real stories of these female
Sumrall and Patrice Vecchione have put together an pirates and the seas that they plundered. The book
inspiring and entertaining collection. $14.95 pb, | covers a broad range of lady buccaneers, from the
0-452-27621-7, Plume. —Kathryn Werhane infamous lesbian duo of Anne Bonny and Mary Read
to lesser-known heroines such as Lady Ch'ing of
Monkey Bridge, Lan Cao's haunting fiction- China and the Arabian pirate Sida al Hurra. The
alization of a teenager’s flight from war-torn Vietnam, authors even shed some light on the suspected gender
contrasts the experiences of generations, gives readers | of the great sea-captain Bartholomew “Black Bart”
Volume 20 Number 4 39 November /December 1997
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Roberts — was “he” really a “she?” The stories are ending. One of those conversations convinced a book-
lively and exciting. While reading, I could practically seller from a city lucky enough to be scheduled for
feel the salt wind on my face and the motions of the Ann Patchett’s tour to call the publicist back and
sea below my feet. (Although that might be just crowbar room into the schedule for a reading. Caught
because I was reading it on the bus.) You'll definitely in the crisis of not having finished it, but having to
be able to taste the sensation of piracy, as the authors leave, another houseguest took it with her and
have included a number of actual recipes prepared on FedEx’d it back from the airport when she landed.
the high seas. (Shark schnitzel, anyone?) The second Good thing, too. Anything slower and we’d have not
part is a brief essay by Gabriel Kuhn entitled “Life let her into the house again. The waiting list for this
Under the Death’s Head,” which links piracy to anar- book is long and impatient.
chist politics. Less fun than the first half, but still So what makes this book so magical? More than
interesting and definitely preferable to a keelhaul! anything, it’s a novel about a woman, Sabine, coming
Overall, this book is a hearty read which I would into herself. It’s a wonderful, complicated, and deeply
recommend to the saltiest of seadogs as well as your satisfying journey. In her forties, having spent the
average landlubber. Advertised in the Feminist Book- previous twenty years being a magician’s assistant to
store Network Fall Catalog. $23.99 pb, 1-55164-058-9, a man who, though he loved her dearly, loved men
Black Rose Books. —Karen Mitchell much more, Sabine is faced with her own life after the
FBN Intern and publisher of Crampzine magician’s death. That’s the simplest summary of
plot, but the novel's explorations of love and content-
Magician’s Assistant is a lovely, haunting novel ment (and what is required of different people to
— but it’s hard to know what to say that won't give it achieve it), of abandoned vs. cherished childhoods
away. Lisa brought it into the office and we've been and the creation of one’s own adulthood, and of what
passing it hand to hand ever since. It was the book du it takes to choose life when surrounded by death, all
jour during a recent weekend full of houseguests. combine to create a wonderful, rich, thoughtful, and
Those of us who had just finished one of the two galley unforgettable novel.
copies we had circulating had such an urgent need to I refuse to give away any details that could spoil
discuss it that we (OK, I) rudely sent those who hadn't its unexpected twists and developments. Please just
finished it out of the room so we could talk about the trust me on this one: if you read FBN, this novel's for
you. But where to shelve it? I offer only one solution:
in a stack on the counter where you can handsell it to
all of your best customers. They will thank you for it
— even those who buy only one hardcover a year.
Magician’s Assistant by Anne Patchett, $23 cl, 400
pages, 0-15-100263-0, Harcourt Brace. —Carol Seajay
Our Guys: The Glen Ridge Rape and the Secret
Life of the Perfect Suburb is a profoundly disturbing,
provocative — and very important — book. I think
everyone in the office is relieved that I've finished it,
having had enough mornings begin with rants like
“One of the defense attorneys asked the victim's
mother what steps she had taken to protect the boys
from her daughter!”
When I first saw this book, I thought it was a true
crime-genre account of this brutal rape of a retarded
young women by a group of high school athletes she
Sixth century pirate, from Women Pirates and the Politics considered her friends. This happened in a small,
of the Jolly Roger (Black Rose Books). affluent, “safe” community where neighbors knew |
November /December 1997 40
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
each other: most of the boys had grown up with the facts of the case and how it unfolded, but it’s not the
victim. I followed the story in the paper, on the radio chronicle of what happened that makes this an impor-
and in magazines — and I felt I'd heard all I needed to tant and worthwhile book. (I can’t help saying,
know about this atrocious crime. I couldn't imagine though, that of the 13 boys who were in the basement
that there could be any good reason to go through it all when the rape occurred only four were charged and
again, but Russell Banks’ review in the NYTBR made it brought to trial. In April of 1992, they were convicted
clear that the book was something much more: a and sentenced to medium-security campus-style
thoughtful, painstakingly researched indictment of prisons where they were given “indeterminate” mini-
this nation’s cult of the athlete, and how in communi- mum terms. They were free on bail, of course, until the
ties all over America, boys are being appeal on June 30, 1997. They lost,
raised to be abusive in their deal- and eight years later, it looks like
ings with girls and women. three of them will finally spend a
Bernard Lefkowitz, a journal- few years in jail.)
ist who has spent much of his career Our Guys is important as a
writing about poor children and powerful examination of male
adolescents in urban environ- violence against women, and the
ments, arrived in Glen Ridge at the cultural biases so commonly held
close of the school year and about that promote and nurture this
four months after the gang rape. He violence in young boys and men.
attended graduation parties where About what this same culture
the athletes that had finally been teaches young women, the author
charged with rape (the rape writes, “As children [the girls of
occurred on March 1, 1989; while Glen Ridge] expected to be
the victim told one of her teachers accepted as equal human beings
about it two days later, it was three by the boys they knew. This was a
weeks before anyone reported it to reasonable expectation for chil-
the police, and then another two dren living in a seemingly placid
months before any charges were small town whose appearance
brought against the boys) were treated like martyred invited trust. Treated as inferiors and outcasts when
heroes. “It’s such a tragedy. They're such beautiful they stood up to the Jocks, these girls learned while
boys and this will scar them forever,” was one com- they were very young — a lesson that was repeated
ment he overheard. Most townspeople seemed to feel throughout their childhood and adolescence — that
that “the incident,” as they chose to refer to it, was a the price of acceptance was submission. They had to
tragedy for the boys, their families, and the good name submit to whatever the boys asked of them, and, as
of the town. Local teenagers told other reporters that time passed, the boys kept asking for more.... Weren't
the victim, a 17-year-old mentally retarded girl (IQ of parents worried about how their sons were growing
64, and with the reading comprehension of an up? Weren't they concerned about what might
eight-year-old) “teased them into it,” “was promiscu- happen to their daughters?” $29.95 cl, 0-520-20596-0,
ous,” and “asked for it.” During the trial, one of the University of California Press. —Lisa McGowan
defense lawyers tried to paint her as a Lolita, stressing
numerous times that she was “big-breasted.” Hey Booksellers: We want to hear you rave your
Lefkowitz conducted more than 200 interviews in current favorite feminist books. Especially your unexpected
the six years it took him to write the book, and pro- delights and discoveries that other stores might have
vides the history and socioeconomics of the town as missed. Write them up, including the title, author, price,
well as detailed portraits of the people of this commu- binding, ISBN, and publisher, and send them to Feminist
nity that responded so passively to the crime in an Bookstore News, Attn: Jenn Tust, PO Box 882554,
e tf hf iso r t w ht oo l e u n “rd ae vr es ”t a n ad b o uw t h y th et h ois f f h enap sip ve en e ad n. d I d c eo su pl id ca bw lerite Sa (n J F eran ncis nco @ CA F 9 e41 m88; Bfax k 4 N15-6 e42 w-999 s5, . c em oa mil ). o
41 November /December 1997
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
By Jenn Tust finalists include My Brother by Jamaica Kincaid (FSG);
and poetry finalists include Primate Behavior by Sarah
Awards Lindsay (Grove) and The Fields of Praise: New & Selected
New Delhi writer Arundhati Roy won England's Poems by Marilyn Nelson (Louisiana State).
distinguished Booker Prize this year for her novel, The
God of Small Things ($23 cl, 0-679-45731-3, Random This year’s United States Board on Books for
House). The Booker, the most prestigious literary Young People’s Hans Christian Andersen Commit-
prize in Britain, carries a £20,000 (about $32,000) tee chose Nancy Farmer’s A Girl Named Disaster
purse and is awarded annually to a novel published (Orchard, 1996) for its author citation. Set in
in the past year by a writer from Britain or one of the Mozambique and Zimbabwe, the story offers young
Commonwealth countries. readers a powerful and often mystical tale of physi-
A first novel, The God of Small Things is set in a cal and spiritual survival set against incredible
pickle factory in southern India and is told from the odds. Nhamo’s escape from a forced marriage to a
perspective of seven-year-old twins who are strug- cruel elderly man and her struggle to find strength
gling to make sense of the world, themselves and their and courage as she journeys to her father’s country
strange and difficult family. will speak to children of any culture and country.
Gillian Beer, a professor of English literature at
Cambridge and the chairman of the Booker judges, <y
said The God of Small Things, which has already been
translated into 27 languages, was written with
“extraordinary linguistic inventiveness.” Roy's com-
bined advances reportedly came to $1.6 million. L
The Booker is usually riddled with controversy,
with people criticizing the judges for not naming one
book or another to the six-book short list and the
judges themselves, who plowed through 106 novels
this year, often failing to reach a happy consensus. Eighth Mountain sold translation rights for a
Chinese edition to A Journey of One's Own: Uncommon
Advice for the Independent Woman Traveler by Thalia
a Zepatos to Macrovision Culture Co., Ltd.
Down There Press’ First Person Sexual won an Penguin has bid $150,000 for Point Last Seen: A
inaugural Small Press Book Award for Sex/Romance Woman's Tracker's Story (Beacon) for paper reprint. The
category. Book-of-the-Month and QPB have picked up club
rights to the book and Ms. has run a first serial excerpt.
National Book Award finalists have been Foreign rights sales include: Karl Blessing Verlag,
announced. Fiction finalists include Le Divorce by Diane Germany; Rizzoli, Italy; Meulenhoff, Holland; and
Johnson (Dutton/William Abrahams) and The Putter- Hodder /Headline for the U.K., Australia and New
messer Papers by Cynthia Ozick (Knopf); nonfiction Zealand. A TV /film option is in the works. O
42
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
By Jenn Tust the owners are contemplating moving to a bigger
space. The Muse is located an hour south of L.A. and
New Stores is a half mile from the beach, which is nice for outside
The Haven is a new Gaia-like feminist bookstore drumming circles. The Muse Lodge, 408 Westminis-
that opened in mid-October in Pleasant Hill, CA. ter Ave. #7, Newport Beach CA 92663; phone/fax
Sandie Kardof, who has 15 years experience working 714-631-1179, email (themuselodge@juno.com).
in legal publishing, has always wanted to and is now STE
going to be “living in a bookstore.” The 700-square- NT
foot selling space will hold 3,500 titles focusing on a
spectrum of women’s issues including sexuality and
relationships, and will also have new age and meta- Spiritworks, a new spirituality gift and book-
physical titles in the mix. The Haven, which Sandie store, was opened in October by Patricia Smith and
hopes will be a resource center and comfortable space Anne Elliott in Saskatoon, ten minutes away from
for women, is located in a shopping center at a major Cafe Browse. Patty hopes the space will provide a
intersection in Pleasant Hill. Other shops in the center healing atmosphere and assist customers in finding a
include a scrap-booking store, a learning center for spiritual path. While the store focuses on spirituality
kids, a karate studio, and a convenience store. The in the greatest sense, it is only partially (about 25% of
Haven, 607 Gregory Lane #160, Pleasant Hill CA 94523; the stock) feminist-oriented. Hot sections are self-
510-947-5571, fax 510-947-5579, email soon to come. help, women’s issues, psychology and religion, and
sidelines such as goblets, incense burners, and music.
The 1,500-square-foot store is located in a beautiful
semi-residential neighborhood, and it has a garden in
front with space for customers to relax. Spiritworks,
Drumming is the focus at The Muse Lodge, a 1814 Lorne Ave., Saskatoon SK, Canada S7H 1Y4;
new women’s spirituality bookstore and creative 306-653-7966, fax 306-665-0276.
learning center in Newport Beach, California. The
owners, Kimberly Hodgson-Wallish and Misha Thelma Spencer is the owner of Thelton Hall Books
Ma'Heo, are working on turning their project into a & Gallery, a very small women’s bookstore in Spring-
nonprofit center, with a board of directors of women field, MO, which focuses on local authors. Springfield
with diverse energies and specialties. Although the is three hours from Kansas City, four hours from $t.
bookstore was something of an afterthought, the Louis and ninety minutes from the Arkansas border.
store's stock includes 45% books, lots and lots of Also a writer and a publisher of memoirs, Denlinger’s
drums, jewelry, crafts, art and more. The Muse pro- Publishers — Ozark Division, Spencer carries all of her
vides classes and workshops including monthly own titles, two of which are advertised in this year’s
drumming circles, and supports local artists and Catalog. The new space will be used as a store as well
craftspeople by carrying and/or displaying their as for publishing-related needs. Thelton Hall Books, 417
work. The 600-square-foot location is pretty full, and N. Booneville, Springfield MO 65806; 417-887-4521.
Volume 20 Number 4
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Melody Beattie, author of Co-Dependent No More September 20 — Mike Jones is the manager. Unique
and ten other titles, opened A Different Dimension In Tucson, 2900 E. Broadway #142, Tucson AZ 85716;
in Malibu in September. This “boutique” features 520-318-4307, fax 520-319-8496.
recovery, spiritual, and alternative healing books,
music, meditative tools and more in a space with a New Owner
cozy home library feel. Customers can relax on pil- Karen Malcher is the new owner of Valley
lows and cushions and peruse books — while Women Books & Gifts in Fresno, which reopened in
surrounded by burning candles, music, and 4,000 September after a few weeks of remodeling. Karen
books — or use the store/healing center’s sound, changed the store's name to Valley Books & Gifts, but
light, or biofeedback machines. Other important will continue to keep the store’s focus feminist. The
sections include major and minor religions, gay and contact information remains: Valley Books & Gifts,
lesbian issues, women’s issues, self-help and recov- 1118 N. Fulton St., Fresno CA 93728; 209-233-3600.
ery. The store is managed by Kyle Mathews. A
Different Dimension will be up on the Web soon. \
Beattie is also returning to her original publisher,
H Dia mze eld no sin o, n ,f r 3o 9m 00 H Ca rr op se sr S Can reF er kan c Pi ls ac zo a. #A 2 ,D i Mff ae lr ibe un t CA Stores & Publishers Move
90265; 310-317-9573, fax 310-456-5774. Womankind Books and Rising Tide Press left
hearth and home in New York for new adventures
| Unique In Tucson is the new branch of Douglas in the hot and expansive Tucson. The new address is
Klinge’s Unique on Central, a gay and lesbian gift 65161 E. Emerald Drive, Tucson AZ 85739; 800-
shop located in Phoenix. The second store opened 648-5333.
An Open Book in Columbus, Ohio, recently
moved three doors down to a new location twice the
Unapologetically Female size of their old space. An Open Book, 749 N. High
Street, Columbus OH 43215; 614-291-0080, fax
w5 Listening for Cactus 614-291-0081.
DU A1 ip o e“ms by Mary McGinnis
3 “These poems reveal an adept Attic Press has a new address: Attic Press, c/o
listener, one who has been listening Cork University Press, Crawford Business Park,
to time move through cactus, the sky, C +3r 5o 3ss -e 1s - 0 2G 1r -e 3e 1n 5, - 3 2C 9o ,r k e m Ir ae ill a n (sd .w; i+ lb3 o5 u3 r-1 n- e0 @2 u1 c- c9 .0 ie2 )- .980, fax
lovers, all manner of tender and
funny human behavior. I have been Polestar Book Publishers has new contact infor-
listening to the poems of Mary mation: for Editorial and Administrative: Michelle
McGinnis for years. They continue Benjamin, PO Box 5238, Station B, Victoria BC, Can-
96 pages, trade paper, $14 to move me to listen.” ada V8R 6N4; 250-361-9718, fax 250-361-9738, email
ISBN 0-9644196-4-5 — Joy Harjo (pstarvic@direct.ca), Web (http://mypage.direct.ca Ž
Finalist for the 1997 PEN-West p/polestar/), and for Publicity: Emiko Morita,
Literary Award & the Ben Franklin Award for Poetry 103-1014 Homer Street, Vancouver BC, Canada V6B
2W9, 604-488-0830, fax 604-669-8250, email
(polestar@direct.ca).
DISTRIBUTORS: INGRAM, KOEN, BAKER & TAYLOR
i Sherman Asher Publishing Special Issue
: P.O.Box 2853 Santa Fe, NM 87504 Trikone recently published a wonderful special
HHS 1-888-984-2686 www.shermanasher.com issue that tackles the issues around coming out to
Indian (and other South Asian) parents. It includes
November /December 1997
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
articles by lesbians and gay men as well as articles 800-698-7781, fax 203-459-5095. Biblio titles will also
for, by and about parents who learned that their kids be available from LPC, BP, and New Leaf.
are gay. It’s a wonderful read — and it addresses
many culture-specific issues that are ignored in the Tradeswoman magazine is now available from AK
basic coming-out books! Stock it! You won't make Press. AK also distributes Maxine (see Small Press),
any money on it — but you will change someone’s Bitch, the SCUM Manifesto by Valerie Solanas, Pussycat
life. July 1997 (Vol. 12, No. 3). Write Trikone Back Fever by Kathy Acker and Cleis and Ism titles. 40% for
Issues, PO Box 21354, San Jose CA 95151; 408-270- 5+. AK Press Distribution, PO Box 40682, San
8776. $3.95, standard terms 60/40. Francisco CA 94140; 415-923-1429.
Small Press Distribution (SPD), the sole remaining
exclusively literary wholesaler in the country, relocated
its operations to a new 6,400-square-foot space, on
People Move Berkeley’s west side, that’s twice the size of their old
Ann Grossman left LPC/InBook for a job as the location. SPD provides distribution and wholesaling
Northeast Sales Rep for Koen. John Alvord will be services to 500 independent presses. Founded in 1969,
handling publishers of the InBook list, as well as a SPD now distributes books to bookstores and libraries
number of marketing duties. You can reach John at around the U.S. and abroad. Direct sales to individuals
203-878-6417, ext. 5, fax 203-874-2308. is its fastest growing market. SPD's customer base is
60% bookstores, 72% of which are independents. SPD
Inga Petri, formerly marketing manager at expects to double its sales over the next five years to
Ragweed Press/gynergy books, is offering a full range $750,000 /year. SPD, 1341 Seventh Street, Berkeley CA
of marketing services on a freelance basis. For more 94710; 510-524-1668, fax 510-524-0852.
information: Inga B. Petri, Marketing Consultant, 99
Fifth Avenue #145, Ottawa ON, Canada K18S 5P5; 613- St. Martin’s Press is now the exclusive U.S.
237-9915, email (ipetri@cyberus.ca). distributor of Zed Books. Zed is the English-language
publisher of Nawal El Saadawi and other leading
Anniversaries women’s studies titles, including Male Daughters,
Third World Press, one of the nation’s oldest Female Husbands: Gender and Sex in an African Society
Black owned book publishing companies, is celebrat- by Ifi Amadiume, and Ecofeminism by Maria Mies and
ing their 30th anniversary! Events included panel Vandana Shiva.
discussions on What Black Theater Can and Should Be
and a Dialogue Between Writers and Publishers. The
g thal ea kc ee yle nb or ta et i o sn p e ain k e rC , h i pc ea rg fo o rf mea at nu cr ee sd b D ye r Sr ti ec vk e B Ce oll b b a s and N
Chavinduka, music and dancing. Electronic News
Mother Kali’s in Eugene, Oregon now has email
Conari Press is celebrating their 10th year in (kali@efn.org).
publishing.
Pride & Joy in Northampton has an email address
Distribution News (pridnjoy@crocker.com), and a fax number 413-584-4848.
Spinsters Ink titles will be distributed by Words,
the new distribution arm of Bookpeople, as of Janu- The new Brave Girls and Strong Women book list
ary 1, and will continue to be available from the at (http:/ /members.aol.com/brvgirls) describes over
whole-salers BFP, Ingram, B&T and others. 40 small publisher books that empower girls.
Biblio Press has a new distributor: H. & M. Distri- HarperCollins’ Winter/Spring catalog is online
bution, 41 Monroe Turnpike, Trumbull CT 06611; at (http://www.catalog.harpercollins.com). O
45 November /December 1997
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Compiled by Jenn Tust Box 83912, Los Angeles CA 90083; 310-410-0808, fax
310-410-9250, email (newsroom@blk.com).
Susan Fox Rogers is seeking nonfiction stories
for a literary anthology focusing on women heading Cleis Press is seeking short stories by Jewish
into the outdoors together. Entitled Sisters in Adven- lesbians about sex and desire between women for an
ture: Stories from Outdoor Women, the book will be anthology, Jewish Lesbian Erotica. Stories can be funny,
edited by Rogers and be published by Vintage sad, serious, steamy or passionate. Maximum: 5,000
Books. The female companion in these works can be words. Deadline: October 1. Send stories with SASE
.a sister, mother, lover, grandmother, daughter-in- (with IRC), bio, address, phone, email, to: Karen X.
law, best friend, or even (female) dog. Deadline: Tulchinsky, PO Box 106, 1832 Woodland Drive,
April 1, 1998. For guidelines or contributions: Box Vancouver BC, Canada V5N 3N7.
2576, Tucson AZ 85702.
Cleis Press is also seeking explicit memoirs and
Kuumba, a poetry journal for Black lesbians and fiction on Jewish themes for Kosher Meat, an anthol-
gay men, accepts ongoing contributions of poetry and ogy of Jewish gay male sexual writing. Deadline:
artwork celebrating the lives and experiences of Black November 1. Send to Lawrence Schimel, PO Box 528,
people “in the life.” Topics of interest include, but are New York NY 10011.
not limited to, coming-out experiences, interactions
with families and community, substance abuse and Alyson Publications is seeking contributions for
recovery, political activism, oral histories, HIV / AIDS, an erotic anthology in which lesbians describe intro-
and intimate relationships. For guidelines see a recent ducing another woman to the pleasures of lesbian
issue of Kuumba or contact: BLK Publishing Company, sex. Stories can be romantic, passionate, and/or
sizzling. Deadline: December 31. For guide-
lines, send SASE to Virgin Guidelines, Alyson
Publications, PO Box 4371, Los Angeles CA
90078; email (alyson@advocate.com), Web
(http:/ /www.alyson.com).
BronzeWord is seeking stories from secre-
taries about their worst, funniest and best
secretarial experiences. For those who have
never written a story before, BronzeWord is a
publisher who will work with you. The goal:
The best gift book for Boss’ Day ever! Write for
guidelines, or send story typed or on audio
cassette to: BronzeWord, Office Worker Tales,
1155 S. Van Ness, San Francisco CA 94110. O
November /December 1997 46
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
mother tongue books — 4. Early Embraces, L. Elder, $11.95, 1-55583-354-3,
femmes de parole Alyson
Ottawa, Ontario 5. Ferrari for Women, $14, 0-942586-61-1, Ferrari
September Bestsellers (in no particular order) International
6. Hot, Throbbing Dykes to Watch Out For,
• Alias Grace, Margaret Atwood, C$8.99 pb, A. Bechdel, $10.95, 1-56341-086-9, Firebrand
0770427596, Seal 7. Intimacy Dance, B. Berzon, Ph.D., $12.95,
° Fall on Your Knees, Ann-Marie MacDonald, 0-452-27747-7, Plume/Penguin
C$18.95, 0394281780, Vintage 8. Let's Face the Music and Die, S. Scoppettone,
° Larry's Party, Carol Shields, C$31, 0679308776, $5.99, 0345412257, Little, Brown
Random House 9. Liberty Square, K. Forrest, $5.99, 0425158993,
° Prozac Highway, Persimmon Blackbridge, Berkley
C$18.95, 088974078X, Press Gang 10. We’'Moon Calendar 1998, $14.95, 0951066196,
• Two Ends of Sleep, Lizard Jones, C$15.95, Mother Tongue Ink
0889740720, Press Gang
° Slow Dance: A Story of Stroke, Love &
Disability, Bonnie Sher Klein, C$18.95, Rainbow'’s Ltd. Inc.
0679970303, Vintage Canada Huntsville, AL
° Everywoman’s Almanac 1998, C$12.95, September Bestsellers
0889612234, Women’s Press/Canada
° Memoires Lesbiennes, Line Chamberland, 1. Ferrari for Women, $14, 0-942586-61-1, Ferrari
C$22.95, 2-89091142X, Les editions du International
remuemenage 2. Permanent Partners, Betty Berzon, Ph.D., $14.95,
• Liberty Square, Katherine Forrest, C$7.99, 0-452-26308-5, Plume
0425158993, Berkley 3. What the Bible Really Says About
° Beyond the Pale, Elana Dykewomon, C$19.95, Homosexuality, D.A. Helminiak, Ph.D., $9.95,
0889740747, Press Gang 0-9624751-9-X, Alamo
4. Early Embraces, Lindsey Elder, $11.95,
1-55583-354-3, Alyson
Amazon Bookstore 5. Hot, Throbbing Dykes to Watch Out For,
Minneapolis, MN Alison Bechdel, $10.95, 1-56341-086-9,
September Bestsellers Firebrand
6. Lesbian Couples Creating Healthy
1. Apparition Alley, K. Forrest, $21.95, 0425159663, Relationships for the 90s, Clunis/Green,
Berkley $12.95, 1-878067-37-0, Seal
2. Body Alchemy, L. Cameron, $24.95, 1573440620, 7. Dream Lover, Jane Futcher, $9.95,
Cleis 1-55583-375-6, Alyson
3. Divine Secrets of the YaYa Sisterhood, R. Wells, 8. Nina in the Wilderness, Sarah Aldridge, $11.95,
$13.50, 0060928336, Harper 0-9646648-3-6, A&M
Volume 20 Number 4 47 November /December 1997
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
9. Baby, It’s Cold, Jaye Maiman, $10.95, 4. Liberty Square, Katherine Forrest, $5.99 pb,
1-56280-156-2, Naiad 0425158993, Berkley
10. Intimacy Dance, Betty Berzon, Ph.D., $12.95, 5. Apparition Alley, Katherine Forrest, $21.95 c],
0-452-27747-7, Plume/Penguin 0425159663, Berkley
6. Class Reunion, Linda Hill, $11.95 pb,
1562801783, Naiad
A Quiet Corner Bookstore 7. The Loving Lesbian, McNab/Gedan,
Ft. Collins, CO $14.95 pb, 1562801694, Naiad
September Bestsellers 8. A Grave Talent, Laurie King, $5.99 pb,
0553573993, Bantam
1. We’'Moon 98: Gaia Rhythms for Women, $14.95 9. Baby, It’s Cold, Jaye Maiman, $10.95 pb,
pb, 0951066196, Mother Tongue Ink 1562801562, Naiad
2. Hot, Throbbing Dykes to Watch Out For, 10. Phases of the Moon, Julia Watts, $11.95 pb,
Alison Bechdel, $10.95 pb, 1-56341-086-9, 1562801767, Naiad o
Firebrand
3. Baby, It’s Cold, Jaye Maiman, $10.95 pb,
1-56280-156-2, Naiad Announcements, continued from page 37.
4. Succulent Wild Woman, Sark, $15 pb, stores might want to hang it from a shelf in the kids
068483376X, Simon & Schuster department for shoppers and book browsers’ reading
. 5. Conscious Loving: The Journey to pleasure.
Co-Commitment, Gay and Kathlyn Hendricks, Eighty years ago, on October 29, 1917, three years
$13.95 pb, 0553354116, Bantam before women were granted the right to vote, fifteen
6. Liberty Square, Katherine Forrest, $5.99 pb, women met at Sherwood’s Book Store on John St. in
0425158993, Berkley New York City. Excluded from the all-male Book-
7. Bisexuality: The Psychology and Politics of an sellers League (which later became the ABA), they
Invisible Minority, Beth A. Firestein, editor, formed their own organization, which became the
$25.95 pb, 0803972741, Sage Women’s National Book Association. WNBA has ten
8. In Her I Am, Chrystos, $12.95 pb, 088974033X, chapters, and members throughout the U.S. and
Press Gang Canada. WNBA is open to women — and men — in
9. Journal to the Soul, Rose Offner, $19.95 pb, all areas of the book world including editors, publi-
0879057025, Gibbs M. Smith cists, librarians, booksellers, literary agents,
10. Color of Woman: Coloring Book and designers, writers and producers.
Journal for Women, Shiloh Luminar McCloud, For more information or to obtain copies of the
$26 spiral bound, Heron/McCloud, list of books for girls, send a SASE to. WNBA 80th
PO Box 668, Port Townsend WA 98368; Anniversary List, 160 Fifth Ave., NY NY 10010, call
360-379-3055 212-675-7805 or email (SKPASSOC@internet
mci.com). It is also posted on WNBA’s Web site at
(http://bookbuzz.com).
Page One — Books By & For Women
Pasadena, CA The Friends of Marija Foundation is seeking
Bestsellers between 7-17 and 9-17 contributions for a documentary on the life and work
of the late archaeologist Marija Gimbutas. This hour-
1. Angel Wings, Nicole Conn, $23 cl, 0684832054, long film will be narrated by Olympia Dukakis and
Simon & Schuster produced by Belili Productions (an organization
2. Dream Lover, Lyn Denison, $11.95 pb, formed by filmmaker Donna Read and author
1562801732, Naiad Starhawk). Send contributions to: Reclaiming,
3. P0as4sio2n5’s 1 Sh5ad6ow6,4 N8ic,o le BConenr, k$5l.9e9 y pb , F“Frrieandns c oif s Mcaori ja CProAjec t, ” 9 P4O 1 B4ox1 4.1 0 18O7, San
November /December 1997 48 Volume 20 Number 4
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Books in Canada:
BORDE
By Jacqueline Dumas other in an upcoming production of Hamlet. A
Orlando Books/Edmonton, Alberta passionate exploration of art informing life. C$28.95
cl, 0-7737-3041-9, Stoddart, General.
Publishers and booksellers, please phone in These Festive Nights by Marie-Claire Blais, trans-
information and comments to me at 403-432-7633 or lated by Sheila Fischman — Eagerly awaited in English,
email (orlando@compusmart.ab.ca). a swirling, baroque fresco of activity on an island in the
Gulf of Mexico. (C$22.95 pb, 0-88784-601-7, House of
Novels Anansi, General.) Also from Anansi, 1953: Chronicle of
Larry's Party by Pulitzer Prize-winner Carol a Birth Foretold by Acadian writer France Daigle, trans-
Shields — The portrait of a man with a passion for lated by Robert Majzels. (C$18.95 pb, 0-88784-604-1,
garden mazes, and a story that flashes backward and House of Anansi, General.)
forward as he journeys toward the millenium. C$31 cl, The Time Being by Mary Meigs — Her fourth
0-679-30877-6, Random House. book, two women in love in Australia. C$15.95 pb,
Prozac Highway by Lambda winner Persimmon 0-88922-374-2, Talonbooks, General.
Blackbridge — Features Internet junkie Jam and her
far-flung family. (C$18.95/$14.95 pb, 0-88974-078-X,
Press Gang, General/LPC.) Now in paper, her first ta
novel, Sunnybrook: A True Story with Lies.
(C$18.95/$15.95, 0-88974-060-7, Press Gang, Visible Worlds by Marilyn Bowering — A
General /LPC.) sweeping novel which moves from Depression-era
The Underpainter by Jane Urquhart — A story of Winnipeg to the polar ice caps of Siberia to the
love and art (Rockwell Kent is featured) that spans more napalm-burned forests of Korea. C$28 cl, 0-00-
than seven decades and moves from the Great Lakes to 224377-6, HarperCollins.
World War I France to 20s and 30s New York. C$29.95 Bread, Wine and Angels by Winnipeg writer Anna
c], 0-7710-8664-4, McClelland & Stewart, Canbook. P. Zurzolo — A girl child in southern Italy and her
Some Things About Flying by Joan Barfoot — dreams of America. (C$17.95/$14.95 pb, 0-88801-213-6,
Namely, skewered male-female relationships. C$19.95 Turnstone Press, General/LPC.) Also, What Birds Can
pb, 1-55013-908-8, Key Porter, General / Firefly. Only Whisper by Julie Brickman — About recovered
The Moons of Palmares by Zanab Amahady — memory and childhood sexual abuse. (C$17.95/$14.95
A feminist adventure novel for science fiction buffs pb, 0-88801-214-4, Turnstone Press, General/ LPC.)
and social justice advocates alike. C$17.95/$14.95 pb, The Other Side by Cynthia Holz — Her second
1-896705-22-7, Sister Vision, General. novel, this one about love, both sexual and platonic.
In the Wings by Carole Corbeil — Alice falls in C$15.95 pb, 1-896764-01-0, Second Story Press,
love with Allan, and the two are cast opposite each University of Toronto Press.
The Burden of Grace by Veronica Ross — Her
Note: Canadian distribution information except where third Carolyn Archer mystery. C$17.95 pb, 1-55128-
otherwise noted. 049-3, Mercury Press, General/LPC.
49 November /December 1997
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
New in paper: Fall on Your Knees by Ann-Marie Karodia — A collection of stories in which South
Macdonald (C$18.95 pb, 0-394-28178-0, Vintage); Africans pick up where apartheid leaves off. (C$13.95
Oyster by Janette Turner Hospital (C$17.95 pb, 0-676- pb, 0-920661-62-9, Tsar Publications, General.)
97031-1, Vintage); A Killing Spring by Gail Bowen The Penguin Anthology of Stories by Canadian
(C$7.99 mm, 0-7710-1486-4, McClelland & Stewart, Women selected by Denise Chong — An excellent
Canbook); and Stargate by Pauline Gedge (C$7.99 introduction to one of Canada’s best-kept secrets —
mm, 0-14-026842-1, Penguin, Canbook). her great tradition of short story writing. Includes
stories by Carol Shields, Alice Munro, Mavis Gallant,
Dionne Brand, Margaret Atwood and many others.
C$35 cl, 0-670-87633-X, Penguin, Canbook.
Má-Ka: Diasporic Juks: Contemporary
Short Stories Writings by Queers of African Descent edited by
Aurora Montrealis by Monique Proulx, trans- Debbie Douglas, Courtney McFarlane, Makeda
lated by Matt Cohen — A unique sequence of stories Silvera and Douglas Stewart — An erotic, political
set in referendum and post-referendum Montreal by anthology of prose, poetry, essays and personal
one of Quebec's most outstanding writers. C$18.95 testimony from Canada, the U.S., Africa, the Carib-
pb, 1-55054-258-3, Douglas & McIntyre, University of bean and Britain. C$17.95/$14.95 pb, 1-896705-14-6,
Toronto. Sister Vision, General.
Flirt, Punk and Loo: My Dogs and I written and Her Mother’s Ashes 2: More Stories by South
-illustrated by Emily Carr — An irresistable collection of Asian Women in the United States & Canada ed-
dog stories (from The House of All Sorts) and drawings ited by Nurjehan Aziz. C$15.95 pb, 0-920661-63-7,
reproduced here for the first time. C$18.95 cl, 1-55054- Tsar, General.
598-1, Douglas & McIntyre, University of Toronto. Cowgirls: 100 Years of Writing the Range edited
The Congress of Human Wonders by M. A. C. by Thelma Poirier. C$16.95 pb, 0-88995-168-3, Red
Farrant — Her fifth collection, this one encompassing Deer College Press, Raincoast/Orca.
celebrity and fan phenomena, domestic matters, and New in paper: Traplines by Eden Robinson — A
strange folks who domesticate odd pets and engage in fresh collection of funny, unsettling stories by a young
peculiar rituals. C$16.95 /$14.95 pb, 1-896095-28-3, West Coast First Nations writer. (C$15.95 pb, 0-676-
Polestar, General /Orca. 97026-5, Vintage.) The Selected Stories of Mavis
Awake When All the World Is Asleep by Shree Gallant — A superb collection. (C$26.99 pb, 0-7710-
Ghatage — An articulation of the minutiae of daily life 3330-3, McClelland & Stewart, Canbook.) Reissued:
in India’s urban south. C$18.95 pb, 0-88784-602-5, In Transit, Mavis Gallant's ninth collection. (C$14.99
House of Anansi, General. pb, 0-14-027003-5, Penguin, Canbook.) The New
And a Body to Remember With by Chilean Canadian Library has picked up two collections of
Canadian writer Carmen Rodriguez — Stories of short fiction by Margaret Atwood which had van-
place, language, and women who arein transition and ished along with Coach House Press: Good Bones
caught between two worlds. (C$14.95 pb, 1-55152- (C$6.95 mm, 0-7710-3463-6, McClelland & Stewart,
044-3, Arsenal Pulp, General.) Also, Stories to Hide Canbook) and Murder in the Dark (C$6.95 mm,
from Your Mother by Montreal writer Tess Fragoulis. 0-7710-3464-4, McClelland & Stewart, Canbook). And
(C$14.95 pb, 1-551-52-045-1, Arsenal Pulp, General.) now available in paper: Strange Things: The Malevo-
Snackers by Janina Hornosty — Stories from lent North in Canadian Literature by Margaret
Generation X. C$14.95 pb, 0-88982-163-1, Oolichan, Atwood. (C$17.95 pb, 0-19-541351-2, Oxford.)
General.
Women Dancing on Rooftops: Bring Your Belly Plays
Close by Turkish Canadian Yasmin Ladha — A mix- 2000 by Joan MacLeod — As the millenium
ture of fiction, poetry, travelogue and memoir. approaches, the wild (a cougar) invades the city, and
(C$13.95 pb, 0-920661-65-3, Tsar Publications, the city invades the wild. C$13.95 pb, 0-88922-373-4,
General.) Also, Against an African Sky by Farida Talonbooks, General.
November /December 1997 50
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Harlem Duet by Djanet Sears — The story of Fault Line by Toronto writer Laura Lush. C$9.95
Billy, Othello’s first wife (yes, before Desdemona), pb, 1-55065-096-3, Véhicule, General.
set in Harlem at the corner of Martin Luther King Lyrics and Poems by Joni Mitchell — The first
and Malcolm X boulevards. C$12.95 pb, 1-896239- comprehensive collection of song lyrics and poems by
27-7, J. Gordon Shillingford, General. this influential singer/songwriter. C$29.95 cl, 0-679-
Playwrights Canada Press has reissued two out- 30882-2, Random.
of-print Coach House plays: Good Night
Desdemona, Good Morning Juliet by Ann-Marie Humour
MacDonald (C$11.95 pb, 0-88754-513-0) and Lion in
the Streets by Judith Thompson (C$10.95 pb, 0-88754-
515-7). 40% for 5+. Playwrights Union of Canada, 54
Wolseley Street, 2nd Floor, Toronto ON, M5T 1A5;
416-703-0201, email (cdplays@interlog.com).
Poetry
The Hidden Room by P. K. Page — The essential
work of this essential poet in two volumes. C$18.95 pb
each, Vol. 1, 0-88984-190-X; Vol. 2, -193-4, The Porcu-
pine’s Quill, General.
The Journals of Susanna Moodie by Margaret
Atwood, full-colour illustrations by Charles Pachter
— A faithful reproduction of the 1980 hand-set, hand-
printed limited edition. C$39.95 cl, slipcased,
1-55199-013-X. Macfarlane Walter & Ross, 37A Hazel-
ton Avenue, Toronto ON, M5R 2E3; 416-924-7595,
email (mwandr@interlog.com), General.
Two books by writers who are also performance
artists: Woman of Sticks, Woman of Stones by Sandra
Nicholls — A meditation on the silence and invisibility
of domestic life (C$14.95 pb, 1-55082-195-4, Quarry
Press, General/ LPC); Uncommon Prayer by Susan
McMaster — In the oral tradition of Song of Songs
(C$14.95 pb, 1-55082-196-2, Quarry Press, General / LPC).
The Man with the Dancing Monkey by Barbara
Curry Mulcahy — A dazzling first book of poems.
C$12 pb, 0-919897-54-1, min. 1. Wolsak and Wynn, Box evenly as well as for Hie = «
316, Don Mills ON, M3C 2S7; 416-237-0364. ako of symmetry, it should :
Debbie: An Epic by Lisa Robertson — A lush, e so perfectly pofšed aloft
subversive vision of the world. C$14 pb, 0-921586- hat you could at sny moment
61-2, New Star, General. alance a saucer on it with.
Hand to Hand by Nadine McInnis — An explo- io utd p re liami na rPy aadjustm ont
ration of connections: between the personal and the C Mae
p ofu b l si oc c, ia a l n d h i sb toet rw y.e e n C $ 1t 6h .e 9 5 /f $a 1m 4i .9ly 5 a pn bd , 1t -h 8e 9 6 l 0a 9r 5g -e 3r 1 - 3sp ,here F r Po rm ob l eS mto sr m f o rC l o tu hd es I lO l-v Be rr e d P a Wrt oy m aS nh o e (Ps: r eE sst i q Gue at nt ge )
Polestar, General/ Orca.
51
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
from etiquette books and magazines of the 30s to the Panofsky — Correspondence covering 1947-1986,
50s. 30+ full-colour illustrations. C$18.95/$13.95 pb, and encompassing the professional and personal de-
0-88974-080-1, Press Gang, General /LPC. velopments, disappointments and satisfactions of
More Letters from the Country by Marsha these eminent writers and friends. (C$24.95 pb,
Boulton — A continued look at what can happen 0-8020-8090-1, University of Toronto.) And just out,
when a city woman trades in her high heels for a pair The Life of Margaret Laurence by James King.
of rubber boots. C$14.95 pb, 0-316-10238-5, Little, (C$35.95 cl, 0-676-97073-7, Knopf.)
Brown/Waltham. Mamie’s Children: Three Generations of
Sandra Shamas: A Trilogy of Performances (My Prairie Women by Judy Schultz — Their dramas
Boyfriend’s Back and There’s Gonna Be Laundry; played out against the history, climate and landscape
Spin Dry: The Cycle Continues; Wedding Bell Hell) of the Canadian West. C$16.95 pb, 0-88995-167-5, Red
— Transcripts of her very popular one-woman Deer College Press, Raincoast/Orca.
shows. C$18.95 pb, 1-55128-044-2, Mercury Press, Lilith Fair: The Story of Sarah McLachlan by
General/ LPC. Judith Fitzgerald — Eight-page colour insert, 24 b&w
photos. C$19.95 pb, 1-55082-190-3, Quarry Press,
General / LPC.
The Colour of Gold by Margaret McKirdy — The
white justice system worked against Cree Adelaide
Biography and History McCauley and her two children after their Métis
Mrs. King: The Life and Times of Isabel husband /father was killed by a crazed white miner.
Mac-Kenzie King by Charlotte Gray — The mother C$15.95 pb, 0-920576-66-4, Caitlin Press, General.
of one of Canada’s most colourful (and reviled) Prime Victory Harvest: Diary of a Canadian in the
Ministers, their complex relationship, and a portrait of Women’s Land Army by Marion Kelsey — An
early 20th-century Ontario. C$32.99 cl, 0-670-86674-1, account of World War II Britain. 32 illustrations.
Penguin, Canbook. C$29.95 cl, 0-7735-1663-8, McGill Queen’s, Univer-
Mothertalk: Life Stories of Mary Kiyooka by sity of Toronto.
Roy Kiyooka — A poignant, witty account of a Undisciplined Women: Tradition and Culture
Japanese Canadian woman born in 1896 whose son in Canada edited by Pauline Greenhill and Diane Tye
tape-recorded and translated her memories. C$16.95 — Twenty essays in folklore scholarship — from fe-
pb, 1-896300-24-3, NeWest Press, General. male sailors to women preachers. Eleven illustrations
A Woman's Place: Seventy Years in the Lives of and one map. C$45 cl, 0-7735-1614-X, McGill Queen’s,
Canadian Women — Social history through the eyes University of Toronto.
of Chatelaine magazine. (C$36 cl, 1-55013-910-X, Key Gold Diggers of the Klondike by Bay Ryley —
Porter, General /Firefly.) And now in paper, Rebel A look behind the myths and popular accounts of the
Daughter by Doris Anderson — The autobiography dance-hall girls and prostitutes of the 1898 gold rush.
of the editor of Chatelaine from 1957 to 1977, one of the C$19.95 pb, 1-896239-29-3, J. Gordon Shillingford,
first magazines in North America to cover women’s General.
issues. (C$19.95 pb, 1-55013-930-4, Key Porter, Click edited by Lynn Crosbie — How the per-
General /Firefly.) sonal became the political in the lives of 30 very
I Am First a Human Being: The Prison Letters different feminists. C$24.95 pb, 1-55199-004-0.
of Krystyna Wituska edited and translated by Irene Macfarlane Walter & Ross, 37A Hazelton Avenue,
Tomaszewski — Letters smuggled out of Moabit Toronto ON, M5R 2E3; 416-924-7595, email
prison in Berlin in 1944, the year before this 22-year- (mwandr@interlog.com), General.
old member of the Polish Resistance was executed Female Gazes: Seventy-Five Women Artists by
by the Gestapo. C$16 pb, 1-55065-095-5, Véhicule, Elizabeth Martin and Vivian Meyer — A diverse
General. collection of well-known and lesser-known artists
Selected Letters of Margaret Laurence and from the Renaissance to the present. 75 full-colour
Adele Wiseman edited by John Lennox and Ruth reproductions. C$29.95 pb, with French flaps,
November /December 1997 52
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
0-929005-99-6, Second Story Press, University of University of Toronto.) Also, The Cultural Politics of
Toronto. Fur by Julia V. Emberley — Using stories by Native
Too Many Men on the Ice: The Story of Women’s peoples as well as other sources, Emberley traces the
Hockey in North America by Julie Stevens and colonial fur trade to its globalization. 41 illustrations.
Joanna Avery — The women have arrived! From (C$22.95 pb, 0-7735-1706-5, McGill Queen’s, Univer-
grassroots hockey to national team programmes to the sity of Toronto.)
passionate drive to the 1998 Olympics. Includes b&w
photos. C$19.95/$16.95 pb, 1-896095-33-X, Polestar, sX
General /Orca.
Now in paper: The Way She Looks Tonight:
Five Women of Style by Marian Fowler — A wicked Stolen from Our Embrace: The Abduction of
and revealing romp through the history of fashion, First Nations Children and the Rebuilding of
with peeks at French Empress Eugénie, pulp novelist Aboriginal Communities by Suzanne Fournier and
Elinor Glyn, Marlene Dietrich, Wallis Simpson and Ernie Cey — A hard-hitting, compassionate look at the
Jackie Kennedy. (C$18.95 pb 0-676-30885-7, Vintage.) experience of First Nations children in Canada, from
Slow Dance: A Story of Stroke, Love and Disability first contact to recovery. C$29.95 cl, 1-55054-117-X,
by Bonnie Sherr Klein — A survival story by the Douglas & McIntyre, University of Toronto.
award-winning filmmaker best known for her bril- Night Spirits: The Story of the Sayisi Dene
liant exploration of pornography, Not a Love Story. Relocation by Ila Bussidor and Ustün Reinart —
(C$18.95 pb, 0-676-97030-3, Vintage.) The Concu- Survivors now living in Tadoule Lake recount their
bine’s Children: Portrait of a Family Divided by stories. C$18.85 pb, 0-88755-643-4, University of
Denise Chong — A memoir of the author’s grand- Manitoba Press, University of Toronto.
mother, brought from China to Canada as a young Sinews of Survival: The Living Legacy of Inuit
outraged concubine, and her family. (C$14.99 pb, Clothing by Betty Kobayashi Issenman — Promises
0-14-025427-7, Penguin, Canbook.) to be another stunning and unique window into Inuit
culture. Includes 225 duotones, 13 maps, and dia-
grams. C$49.95 cl, 0-7748-0596-X, UBC Press/
wa University of Washington Press.
“...But Where Are You Really From?” Stories of
Social and Cultural Politics Identity & Assimilation in Canada anthologized by
The Big Black Book: The Essential Views of Hazelle Palmer — Women of colour discuss the
Conrad Black and Barbara Amiel by Maude Barlow meaning of identity, where it comes from, and how
and James Winter — Essential reading to help coun- to claim it. C$15.95/$12.95 pb, 1-896705-20-0, Sister
teract the antifeminist, homophobic, antiunion and Vision, General.
anticultural views of Amiel and her husband, who A Genealogy of Resistance by M. Nourbese
controls 60% of the dailies in Canada (100% in three Philip — Essays on race and culture — always worth
provinces). C$18.95 pb, 0-7737-5904-2, Stoddart, General. reading what she has to say. C$18.95 pb, 1-55128-047-7,
The Trouble with Normal: Postwar Youth and the Mercury Press, General / LPC.
Making of Heterosexuality by Mary Louise Adams — Race, Class, Women and the State: The Case of
The first Canadian study of youth as a sexual and moral Domestic Labour by Tanya Schecter — How the
category, as well as an unpacking of normality. C$19.95 Canadian state took advantage of Third World immi-
pb, 0-8020-8057-X, University of Toronto. grant women’s desperation and poverty in order to
Capturing Women: The Manipulation of find a cheap supply of domestics and limit its own
Cultural Imagery in Canada’s Prairie — A series of social expenditures. C$24.99 pb, 1-55164-108-9, Black
stories, events and episodes is used to contrast Rose, University of Toronto/Consortium.
representations of women and the creation of hierar- Still Raising Hell: Poverty, Activism and Other
chies of race and gender in the Prairies. Illustrated. True Stories by Sheila Baxter — An anti-poverty
(C$17.95 pb, 0-7735-1656-5, McGill Queen’s, See Canada, page 76.
53 November /December 1997
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
_ “After Mother died, the thought came to me...
_ that if I was good, if I paid attention, if I put up with,
_ if I understood and overlooked and tended my bruises in silence,
I believed...thal, in time, happiness would be given me.
That I would find it. Or it would find me.”
WHEN SHE WAS GOOD
A NEw NovEL by NORMA FOx MAZER
ISBN 0-590-13506-6 ® $16.95
_* “Powerful.”
— Booklist, starred review
_* “Heart-wrenching.”
— Publishers Weekly, starred review
* “S t—u n Snchinoogl . L izb”rary Journal,
starred review
É AÅ rthur À. Levine Books
An Imprint of Scholastic Press
BMSCHOLASTIC
November /December 1997 54 Volume 20 Number 4
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
identifies with her daughter’s imaginings and helps
her change them from frightening to funny. Great for
two- to seven-year-olds.
Greetings from sunny Chicago. I'm writing my Another lovely, full-color book for this age
column this month from my sunny balcony overlook- group is Grandmother’s Alphabet ($14.95 cl, 157025-
ing a sparkling Lake Michigan on what may be the last 127-4) by Eve Shaw, from Pfeifer-Hamilton. This
day when both the water and the air are warm enough book could also be titled “Grandmothers Can Do
for swimming. Fortunately my task is an easy one — Anything” because each letter of the alphabet is
reviewing the children’s books featured in our stun- represented by a drawing of a woman at her job:
ning new Feminist Bookstore Network Fall Catalog. “Grandma is an Artist/she paints with colors bright.
While few in number, the books cover a range of Grandma is a Businesswoman/who often works at
topics, genres, and age groups. My compliments to the night.” Note the rhyming text. And each picture is
wise publishers who picked terrific, feminist books for lovingly drawn and colored with wonderful details.
Catalog placement. I'm sure you'll agree that feminist The Grandmas depicted range in age, size, and race.
bookstore customers will be delighted with this year’s Under each picture other occupations are suggested:
Catalog choices. “Grandma can be.../an actress, an author, or an
architect/...and so can I.” I love the repetition of that
final phrase on every page. We've been selling this
book in the store for six months and have had very
nice customer feedback.
For the youngest readers, When Dawn Stole the
Dark ($17.95 cl, 09653018-1-8) by Donna Joerg and
Judith Ann Benedict, from Cadence Press, is a warm
and reassuring story of a daughter and mother deal-
ing with the daughter’s fear of the dark. Bedtime For school-age children (5-10), I highly recom-
battles and sleep resistance is a very common problem mend Bright Star ($13.95, 0916291-75-8) by Gary Crew
with toddlers, and there are many good books on this and Anne Spudvilas, from Kane Miller Publishing. In
subject (There's a Nightmare in My Closet, Jeremiah and beautiful, full-color paintings and thoughtful, clear
Mrs. Ming, and Kate's Giants), but what makes this language, Bright Star tells the story of Alicia, a farm
book special is the rhyming text and the portrayal of girlin Australia, who meets and is inspired by the “Star
communication and understanding between mother Man,” the amateur astronomer John Tebbutt, who dis-
and daughter. Rhymes help children learn language, covered the Great Comet of 1861. Alicia's love for
keep their attention while reading, are soothing, and school and learning, and her frustration with the
make a text more memorable. The mother in this story mundane farm chores that are the lot of a 19th-century
girl, are palpable in this poignant and inspiring story.
Graphic by Laura Irene Wayne, in Journey to Feel (Jora). I especially like the portrayal of her mother’s
55 November /December 1997
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
encouragement and Alicia's acknowledgment, at the Sunday schoo], therapeutic settings, and at home.
end, that she can make a choice to pursue her interest Character-building, thankfully, is a hot topic in edu-
in astronomy. This is a book for boys and girls that tells cation today, but how does one go about teaching
a great story in an historical context without being dull accountability, empathy, purpose, self-discipline?
or preachy. (Also in the Catalog for this age group are How do parents, especially those of us who don’t go
Something to Remember Me By and Confessions of a to church or temple, describe, model and instill posi-
Divorced Kid, which I reviewed favorably last issue.) tive traits in our children? Each chapter focuses on a
There are several great gift choices for older kids trait, gives a definition, appropriate quotes, and
in this year’s Catalog, including the very popular New background info, then describes several dilemmas to
Moon magazine. We had never sold a kids’ magazine use for journaling, discussion, debate, or role-playing.
successfully before New Moon and had to keep This is a kid-friendly book with bold graphics and
increasing our standing order each issue. For girls in cartoons. I'm going to encourage parents to buy one
the 8-14 range, this is the best, featuring stories, for home and one for their child’s homeroom teacher
poems, articles, and artwork by girls themselves. Even or guidance counselor.
if you don't have your own kids, I challenge you to For the same age group, 10 and up, Free Spirit is
read an issue to see what young girls are thinking publishing Girls and Young Women Entrepreneurs:
about. Kids Can Press has published an educational True Stories About Starting and Running a Business
book that is truly lively, interesting and fun for this age ($12.95, 1-57542-022-8) by Frances A. Karnes and
range, The Science Book for Girls and Other Intelli- Suzanne M. Bean. The first section profiles 20 young
.gent Beings ($8.95 pb, 1-55074- 113-6) by Valerie entrepreneurs in both product and service businesses
Wyatt. My eleven-year-old son grabbed this off the as they tell in their own words how they started and
cart the day it came in and was instantly absorbed developed money-making businesses while they
(apparently he considers himself an intelligent being were still in school. These girls are a kick! Many of
or he wanted to make sure he wasn’t being left out). I them display more business sense than many adults
wish this book had been there when I was growing up; I've encountered with schemes to start bookstores.
we had such poor science education, and I grew up There’s a section at the end with inspiring quotes from
convinced that girls like me just didn’t “get science.” women business leaders, but I found 14-year-old
This book shows how scientific principles are at work Lindsay Elder’s advice as sage as any: ”...stay commit-
in our everyday life and how we can do simple experi- ted to your project. Once you start, you have to see it
ments to find out more. I love the way it encourages through. You can’t skip out because you're tired or
kids to think like scientists. show your customers that you're in a bad mood. You
can't act shy or quiet — an entrepreneur needs to get
out and sell her product with enthusiasm. And you
can't just sit back and expect people to approach you.
You have to display an air of confidence in yourself
and your product.” So take Lindsay’s advice and get
out there and sell these wonderful children’s books
Those sensible women at Free Spirit Publishing designed to delight and inspire the next generation.
have put two terrific young adult titles in the Catalog The rain has pushed me back inside, looks like
this year. Having just sat through another “mini- my opportunity to swim is gone. I guess I'll just have
school” for parents at my son’s school last night to curl up with Who Killed Olive Soufflé? ($5.95,
where I was told that there would be a special empha- 0-07-006275-9) by Margaret Benoit, from McGraw-
sis on character-building, I was delighted today to Hill’s Learning Triangle Press. For ages 10 and up, this
page through What Do You Stand For? A Kids’ stylishly written kids’ mystery features Detective
Guide to Building Character ($18.95, 1-57542-029-5) Angel Cardoni and her lovable German shepherd,
by Barbara A. Lewis. I can envision this book being Miro. I'd better finish it before Max gets home from
u ss ce hd o i on l a a nva dr ie t hy i g o hf - sse ct hti on og ls , cce lr at sa si rnl oy o mth ,e m scid od ul te- group, sc“hodol i bbecsau.se” h e Hsawa ipt tphiys m o rnHingo alnidd caallyeds! O
November /December 1997 56
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
By Richard Labonte death. Johns Hopkins University Press, $24.95 pb,
A Different Light Bookstores 0-8018-5807-0.
Simple Justice by John Morgan Wilson — Paper
But wait, there's more...more of the year’s rich edition of a well-wrought mystery from a new writer
and varied (to coin a cliché) flow of gay titles, in this compared to Joseph Hansen and Michael Nava in
third chapter of Summer, Fall and now Winter how he sets his characters realistically into the under-
announcements: world and back alleys of a vividly-drawn L.A.
*Gay Body: A Journey Through Shadow to Self Bantam, $5.99 pb, 0-385-57532-5.
by Mark Thompson — In a quiet and profound way, Revision of Justice by John Morgan Wilson — In
former Advocate senior and arts editor Thompson has Hollywood, they'll kill for a movie deal, and that sort
made his mark as one of the gay male community's of death among the stars is what Benjamin Justice
most valued theorists and spirit-guides. Previous meets in this second mystery. Doubleday, $21.95 cl,
books, Gay Spirit and Gay Soul, explored, in essay and 0-385-48235-3.
interview form, the underpinnings of evolving gay Hostage by R. D. Zimmerman — Third in a series
culture; in this latest work, the political becomes about a gay TV personality whose private life is forever
personal, the spiritual theory is brought to life by the intruding on his public image; here, hero Todd Mills is
experience of his own present and past. It’s a moving caught up in a frenzy of unlikely terrorism. His paper-
and necessary memoir. St. Martin’s, $24.95 cl, 0-312- back originals Tribe and Closet have been bestsellers; this
16853-5. is his first hardcover, but it’s a good one for the mystery
Gorilla Suit: My Adventures in Bodybuilding by section. Delacorte, $21.95 cl, 0-385-31983-5.
Bob Paris — No less personal, revealing and instructive,
this is a memoir of quite a different sort: it’s the story of
a worldclass bodybuilding champion, one of the few
known tobe gay, describing why he was willing to mold
his body into a muscular aesthetic not always appreci- *Pink by Gus Van Sant — From the director of
ated. St. Martin's, $23.95 cl, 0-312-16855-1. My Own Private Idaho and To Die For, to mention the
Execution, Texas: 1987 by D. Travers Scott — This two movies I liked, comes a debut novel, a loopy and
debut novel from a prolific writer of short fiction and exhilarating novel of the sort which used to be called
essays is a breathtaking, brilliant take on the coming- experimental before that became a put-down.
of-age tale, here set in the small town of Execution, Doubleday, $21.95 cl, 0-385-48828-9.
and centered on a 17-year-old struggling, with grim Miss Vera’s Finishing School for Boys Who
grace, to find out who he really is. St. Martin's, $20.95 Want to Be Girls: Tips, Tales, and Teachings from the
cl, 0-312-16830-6. Dean of the World’s First Cross-Dressing Academy
*Sister, Brother: Gertrude and Leo Stein by by Veronica Vera — Wel], the title says it all: it'll liven
Brenda Wineapple — Paper edition of a deft biogra- up your transgender section. Doubleday, $14.95 pb,
phy telling of Gertrude’s powerful, poignant 0-385-48456-9.
relationship with her brother in Paris in 1906 — a *Cracks in the Iron Closet by David Tuller —
brother to whom she never spoke from 1914 until her Paper edition of a fine book looking at lesbian and gay
57 November /December 1997
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
life in contemporary Russia. University of Chicago, collection of bon mots, doggerel, annotated recipes,
$14.95 pb, 0-226-14264-7. anecdotes and lists of recommended readings. St.
*After Nirvana by Lee Williams — “A stark and Martin's, $18.95 cl, 0-312-16779-2.
stunningly realized post-grunge novel in the tradition Studio 54: The Legend by Niels Kummer, photo-
of John Rechy’s City of Night,” says the publisher of graphy by Felice Quinto — A photo/ text reprise of the
this on-the-streets coming-of-age book. William blazing-bright glamour of the dimly-lit disco which,
Morrow, $20 cl, 9-688-15215-5. for better or worse, has defined New York of the 70s
and early 80s. teNues, $29.95 pb, 3-8238-2118-0.
Modern Words 5: A Thoroughly Queer Literary Isaac Mizrahi Presents the Incredible Adven-
Journal — Garland Richard Kyle’s exquisite little tures of Sandee the Supermodel or Yvesac’s Model
magazine has evolved into, in effect, an excellent Diaries by Isaac Mizrahi — Let's use the word “decon-
annual anthology of prose and poetry by both women struct” with a sense of humor, and that’s the essence of
and men. Contributors this issue include Justin Chin this fashion designer’s skewering of a world he knows
(Bite Hard), Jorge Ignacio Cortinas (whose work will well. The book comes, actually, as a boxed set, with the
appear next year in Best Gay Erotica 1998), Brian before and after stories of a generic supermodel, and a
Chung and Rigoberti Gonzalez — a welcome wide third volume which pretends to be a novel based on the
range of voices which has been a hallmark of Kyle's making of a documentary (in real life) of Mizrahi. It’s
magazine. Modern Words, $12 pb, no ISBN, Alamo. an odd but delightful piece of camp — gay men with
fashion genes will love it, as will gay women with a
In the Flesh: Undressing for Success by Gavin certain perspective on the tyranny of fashion. Simon &
Geoffrey Dillard is a book with an interesting publish- Schuster, $29.95 boxed, 0-684-83511-8.
ing history — several years ago it was offered in a Enchanted Evenings: The Broadway Musica!
Dutton catalog, and touted by sales reps (A Different from Show Boat to Sondheim by Geoffrey Block —
Light in San Francisco ordered 100), and page-proof Here are the backstage stories of how more than a
galleys were even mailed out, before legal threats from dozen classic Broadway shows were crafted. Oxford
some of the moguls mentioned in Dillard’s sensuous University Press, $35 cl, 0-19-510791-8.
and spiritual tell-all caused the publisher to suddenly *Shared Heat: Portraits and Stories Celebrating
cancel the book. Several other publishers dallied with Lesbian, Gay and Bisexual Young People by Adam
the work but backed out when they realized that the Mastoon — Forty portraits of teens, stunning in their
Dillers and the Geffens of the world don’t like to be style, are complemented by the teens’ own words.
written about in an unauthorized way; the at-last edi- William Morrow, $22.50 cl, 0-688-14931-6.
tion, edited by David Groff, may be, um, softer than the Sex Lives of the Hollywood Idols and Sex Lives
original manuscript. In any case, though, Dillard's of the Hollywood Goddesses, both by Nigel
balanced take on porn films, hustling, AIDS, and spiri- Cawthorne — The first digs into the polymorphous
tual renewal is candid, saucy, refreshing and wise, a reality of the likes of Flynn, Dean, Grant, Valentino
fine addition to the recent spate of personal memoirs. and Gere (how come the guys aren't “gods”? Oops,
Barricade Books, $23.95 cl, 1-56980-118-5. maybe a silly question); the second looks under the
bedcovers of Nazimova, Garbo, Dietrich, Crawford
and Colbert. And if you don’t know the first names,
you won't get much out of these two books. Trafalgar
Square, $11.95 pb each, 1-85375-249-5/-250-9.
A couple of gender-straddling gift book ideas:
Bachelor Brothers’ Bed & Breakfast Pillow Never make promises you can’t keep: last issue
Book by Bill Richardson — From Canadian radio I promised calendars for the Winter season, but way
broadcaster Richardson comes a really sweet sequel back then I didn’t realize how close to December that
to the bestselling Bachelor Brothers’ Bed & Breakfast, listing would appear, after many calendars are
itself purporting to be an account of the lives of already out of stock at the wholesalers — the best
elderly hoteliers Hector and Virgil; this is a finely fey ones always run out. I'll plan ahead next year. O
November /December 1997 58
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
By Tee A. Corinne Julia Margaret Cameron (1815-1879) was one of
the earliest British women photographers who
Spirited Threads: A Fabric Artist's Passion for created a unique body of work, using family, friends,
Life, The Art and Writings of Patricia Roberts Cline and servants to represent poetic or mythic figures. It
by Cynthia Grant Tucker uses a mixture of (edited) helped her fame that many friends, such as Carlyle
journals, memoir, and biography to focus on the life of and Tennyson, were famous literary figures. She
Memphis-born quilter, Patricia Roberts Cline wrote, “I longed to arrest all beauty that came before
(1943-1996). Cline’s life was shaped both by her talent me, and at length the longing has been satisfied.”
for art and the cystic fibrosis which caused doctors to Annals of My Glass House: Photographs, an exhibi-
predict that she would not live beyond age twelve. For tion catalog, includes texts by Cameron and several
Cline, working with fabrics and threads was a way to others as well as very interesting critiques of
avoid the lung-damaging fumes of painting and print-
making studios. In 1991, Cline showed her quilts at
Meristem bookstore: “Meristem is a feminist book-
store and, like others around the country, serves the
lesbian community as well as women in general and
their friends.... One of my nieces, a college student,
phoned right before the [opening of my exhibition at
Meristem] and told me that my exhibit was being
announced in a local gay and lesbian newspaper.
She...was afraid I didn't know — actually, I didn’t —
but I really saw no cause for alarm.... My deep feeling
is that women’s progress has been so slow because we
divide ourselves up according to what we are not,
instead of who we are.” The book is inspiring on many
levels. Advertised in the Feminist Bookstore Network
Fall Catalog. $19.95 pb, 0-9638327-8-6, Sibyl Publica-
tions. Distributed by Ingram, BP, and APG.
Limelight: A Memoir by Helen Gee is a highly
readable memoir by a woman who ran a combination
photographic gallery and coffeehouse in Greenwich
Village from 1954 to 1960. Gee, a single mother, over-
came myriad obstacles in starting and running the
only photo gallery in the country at the time, exhibit-
ing work by many well-known individuals and others
whose fame has grown. $19.95 pb, 0-8263-1817-7; $50 From Annals of My Glass House: Photographs by Julia
cl, -1783-9, University of New Mexico Press. Margaret Cameron (Scripps College)
59 November /December 1997
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
The photographs are strong images of ordinary
women doing activities which empower them. These
are juxtaposed with their own words about their mo-
tivations and activities. An excellent gift book. $24.95
pb, 0-9655459-3-8. Bay City Press, PO Box 1213,
Bellingham WA 98227. Distributed by BPF, Ingram,
B&T, and New Leaf.
Sex in Public: Australian Sexual Cultures edited
by Jill Julius Matthews collects excellent essays, includ-
ing “Lesbian Erotica and Impossible Images” by
photographer C. Moore Hardy, and “Stirred Heart and
Soul: The Visual Representation of Lesbian Sexuality”
by Elizabeth Ashburn, author of Lesbian Art: An Encoun-
ter with Power. $24.95 pb, 1-86448-049-1, Allen & Unwin.
Distributed by Paul & Co., PCS Data Processing, 360 W.
31 St., New York NY 10001; fax 212-967-0928.
“Feminism has made a significant impact on all
Western theory for the past twenty-five years but it
DÍANA MANLEY CUSTOM JEWELRY has had little positive impact on Africa, where it is
510.540.JEWL (5395) f fr oe rq eu ige nn t l oy r i gv ii new s.”e d I nw i Wth o m su ensp i c ai no dn Ab re tc a u is ne So of u t i ht s Africa,
Fax 510.540.JEWL.RY (5395-79) Marion Arnold, a white South African academic, sets
P.O. Box 14867, Berkeley CA 94712-5867 out to supply female histories, make women of the
past visible, and present a contemporary post-
colonial critique. In a series of essays with titles like
Cameron’s work. $14.95 pb, 0-295-97602-0, Ruth “Subject to Authority,” “Portraits of Servitude,”
Chandler Williamson Gallery of Scripps College. “Contemplating Self,” and “Proclaiming Woman-
Distributed by University of Washington Press. hood,” Arnold examines a variety of artists and
The Goddess: Creation, Fertility, and Abun- issues. References and brief biographies are included.
dance, The Sovereignty of Woman, Myths, and $39.95 cl, 0-312-16586-2, St. Martin’s Press.
Archetypes by Shahrukh Husain is a glossy, mini-
encyclopedia of color photographs and multicultural
information, including maps, personalities such as
Zsuzsanna E. Budapest, and work by both modern and
ancient artists. $15.95 pb, 0-316-38005-9, Little, Brown.
Hathor Rising: The Power of the Goddess in June Wayne: A Retrospective by Arlene Raven
Ancient Egypt by Alison Roberts is one of those books focuses on one of the fabulous figures of American art
which is likely to sell on the richness of its illustrations in the last forty or so years. Wayne (born in 1918),
alone. All the illustrations are in black and white, which founded Tamarind Lithography Workshop in L.A. in
keeps the price reasonable, but their clarity, juxta- 1960 and led the contemporary print revival. Tough,
position, and relevance to the text make them a delight. invorgorating, explosively creative, her work ranges
The writing is engaging and compelling. $19.95 pb, from abstract to fanciful to hauntingly realistic. $24.95
0-89281-621-X. Inner Traditions, One Park St., Rochester pb, 0-295-97607-1, Neuberger Museum. Distributed
VT 05767. Distributed by Ingram and B&T. by University of Washington Press.
My Spirit Flies: Portraits and Prose of Women The Witch of Kodakery: The Photography of
in Their Power by M. Cathy Angell documents Myra Albert Wiggins, 1869-1956 by Carole Glauber
Angell’s journey as she learns to follow her own documents the work of an early Pacific Northwest photo-
passions and gains the power to make her vision real. grapher who was active with the Pictorialists, a photo
November /December 1997 60
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
movement which created moody, soft-focused images Swashbuckler), as well as brief, informative biographical
more akin to art than to reportage. Later in life, Wiggins essays. $32.50 pb, 1-887825-04-5. Iaqua Press, PO Box
became a painter and several of her oil paintings are also 70, Kneeland CA 95549. No discounts.
reproduced here. $28 pb, 0-87422-148-X; $42 cl, -149-8, New in paperback: Conversations Before the
WSU Press. Distributed by Ingram and Partners. End of Time: Dialogues on Art, Life & Spiritual
Renewal by Suzi Gablik includes provocative dis-
cussions with The Guerrilla Girls and other women
active in the contemporary art scene. $14.95 pb,
0-500-27838-5, Thames and Hudson. Distributed by
W.W. Norton.
Particular Voices: Portraits of Gay and Lesbian
Writers by Robert Giard has Olga Broumas on the Clarification:
front cover, Audre Lorde on the back cover, and a host Healing Legacies, reviewed in the Sidelines issue |
of generally well-known lesbians and gay men (pg. 55) and in the Fall Announcements issue (Art, pg. 51)
pictured inside, including Achy Obejas, Jane Rule, seems not to be available for resale. A 24-page booklet of
Irena Klepfisz, Joan Nestle, Becky Birtha, Del Martin Matuschka's photo-montages and writing dealing with
and Phyllis Lyon, Carol Seajay, Ana Maria Simo, Kath- mastectomy and breast cancer, titled 1⁄2 of a 1⁄2 of a 1⁄2, (but
erine Forrest, and many, many more. Most images are bearing only the word “Matuschka” on the cover) is avail-
coupled with excerpts from each person’s writing. $45 able direct from Matuschka. An excellent resource in a |
cl, 0-262-07180-0, The MIT Press. world where breast cancer runs rampant and there are far
I Am the Most Interesting Book of All: The too few images of women living their lives post-mastectomy.
Diary of Marie Bashkirtseff Vol. I, translated by 50% discount to bookstores. $9. Matuschka, 150 E. 87th
Phyllis Howard Kernberger with Katherine Kern- Street, New York NY 10128; 212-722-2131. o
berger, is the private voice of Marie Bashkirtseff
(1858-1884), a talented artist who rebelled against the
restrictions of her time, lived fast, and died of Which lunar calendar?
consumption at age 26. She was born in Russia, moved The Lunar Calendar.
to France as she began her teen years, and started OOA,
keeping her journal at age 14. The story of the transla- 3? Ò,
tion itself is a feminist adventure story worth 019, O N O O © :
preserving. $35 cl, 0-8118-0224-8, Chronicle Books. 0) LUNA PRESS ©
From Suffragettes to She-Devils: Women’s } Box 15511, Kenmore Station )
Liberation & Beyond by Liz McQuiston, introduction } Boston, MA 02215-0009 USA ©
b Wy o m G ae nr m ua si in ne g G ar e se pr e, c u b lueg min , s b aw ti tt lh in g a n m i em n a g we e ao rf in gWonder í) (A617) e 42 7- 98c46 c
AMA buttons, holding books by Freud or holding
protest signs. This book is a visual history of graphics ece
associated with different phases of women’s move- THE LUNAR CALENDAR:
ments in various cultures, from 1850 to the present. DEDICATED TO THE GODDESS IN HER MANY GUISES.
Funny, insightful, moving, international, and worth
every penny of its price. $59.95 cl, 0-7148-3619-2, Phai- The 22nd anniversary edition features fresh work from
don. Available from Chronicle Books. 25 artists and writers, definitive moon-data,
For librarians: Women Photographers: A Selec- ISBN 3 12 -8 7p 7a 9g 2e 0, - 0 w 8-a 8ll . - h Ra en tg ai in l:g , s t r ile lc y oc nl le yd 2p 0a .p 0e 0r . US$.
tion of Images from the Women in Photography
International Archive 1852-1997 by Peter E. Palmquist Available from: BOOKPEOPLE, BAKER & TAYLOR,
and Gia Musso, is a limited edition reference book with LADYSLIPPER, NEW LEAF DISTRIBUTING,
a broad range of photo practitioners and fine illustrators MOVING BOOKS, SAMUEL WEISER,
(I am represented by the cover image I made for The SMALL CHANGES, VISIONWORKS, and the publisher.
61 November /December 1997
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Empowerment for Girls
Profits for You
step-by-step
cyberspace adventure
| in FULL COLOR with
Tech Girl, the perfect online
: _ guide for girls ages 8 and
W up. This book features E
includes a bonus
wil CD-ROM
containing an
interactive Web
Home Page maker
s |b an for girls.
Dhras. Jpranodesuec e dS w aawnsaornd,- w finounnindger t i&t l eCs E Osu cohf aGs i rtlh eTech, h
Carmen Sandiego series, and developed the
bestselling, Toy of the Year, YakBak"
Tech Girl’s Internet Adventures
ISBN: 0-7645-3046-1 • Price: $19.99
F
IDG eseese 00000000000000000
BOOKS
The IDG Books Worldwide logo is a trademark under exclusive license to IDG Books Worldwide, Inc. from International Data Group, Inc.
November /December 1997 62 Volume 20 Number 4
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
AUDIO e VIDEO e CD-ROM
ELECTRONIC BOOKS
By Dorothy Holland Purple Moon is a new software company that
develops computer adventures for girls. Rockett’s
TECH GRRLS STRIKE BACK New School and Rockett’s Tricky Decision are $29.95
After years of boys going first, girls finally have each (Win/Mac CD-ROM), and both feature Rockett,
a few choices in software designed for them. Last year, an eighth-grade girl, and her adventures. You control
Barbie was one of the bestselling computer software the adventures with your decisions every step of the
packages during the holiday season. It did extremely way. Secret Paths in the Forest ($29.95, Win/Mac
well, and finally proved to the software industry that CD-ROM) is the first in another series. In this title, you
there really is a market in girl-related materials. This venture into a mysterious wilderness, following paths
year, there are actually several titles for supportive by solving puzzles and gathering secret stones. I
moms, aunts, and friends to consider for those Tech haven’t seen these yet, but the company definitely has
(or soon-to-be-) Tech Grrls. its heart in the right place, and I'm planning to direct
these toward my niece.
Girl Games has produced three titles: Sabrina,
The Teen-Age Witch, based on the TV show which is
#1 in ratings among 12-17-year-old girls. CUC Inter-
The first is a book that is absolutely wonderful for national is releasing it. Clueless, based on the
girls who are, or hope to become, computer literate: second-most-popular show for girls that age, will be
Tech Girl’s Internet Adventures, subtitled “An released by Mattel New Media. I haven't messed
adventure-filled and fun way for girls to learn about around with either of these programs, however, I'm
the Internet and technology” by Girl Tech. Yes Yes Yes. assuming they will be as good as the Web site for Girl
Designed for girls ages 8 and up, this delightful book Games — which is awesome. I have seen Let's Talk
offers girls a step-by-step guide to launching them- About Me: Girl’s Interactive Handbook for the 21st
selves onto the Web. It highlights 100 Web sites just Century (0-671-56332-7, Win/Mac CD-ROM, Simon
for girls, features helpful tips and advice to keep & Schuster). Wow! Go for it grrrrls. I had to fight for
young Internet users safe, presents notable women my turn to mess around with this CD. It was a great
throughout history, and helps girls design a Web YA hit. Interviews with famous women, a password-
page — even providing space on the Internet to post protected diary, a scrapbook, horoscopes (both
it! Quite a delight. Attractive graphic design, engag-
ing presentation. Advertised on the cover of the Web Site Addresses for Computer Games
Feminist Bookstore Network Fall Catalog. $19.99, for Girls:
0-7645-3046-1, book + Win CD-ROM, IDG. Available http:/ /www.girlgamesinc.com
from Ingram, BP. http:/ /www.herinteractive.com
Yow'll definitely want to carry the book. As for the http://www.purple-moon.com
following software, I’m not so sure, but I really think http:/ /www.girltech.com
yow'll need to at least know about the following soft- http:/ /www.planetgirl.com
ware/games for girls.
Volume 20 Number 4 November /December 1997
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Western and Chinese), cool quizzes, and insights into ($24, 4 cassettes, 4 hours, abridged, 0-679-44509-9,
growing up and teenage troubles. Also, ways to get Random Audio. Available from Ingram, BP.) Also,
onto the Net, and hints about what to do there and Endangered Species by Nevada Barr, read by Cindy
how to do it! Williams. Oh goodie, now I can listen to one of my
Then, there’s the Barbie stuff — following last favorite authors as I travel. This one takes place on
years’ tremendous sales success with Barbie Fashion Georgia's Cumberland Island National Seashore
Designer CD-ROM, this year Mattel has several more after a drug-related plane crash. ($17.95, 2 cassettes,
titles for those Barbie fans: Barbie Screen Styler lets 3 hours, abridged, 0-787103-73-5, Dove Audio.)
users place all sorts of amazing Barbie paraphernalia Then, don’t miss Ill Wind by Nevada Barr, read by
on their computer’s desktop; Barbie Magic Fairy Joanna Gleason. Somehow I missed this one! Quite a
Tales: Barbie as Rapunzel* has Barbie starring as the delight to find Barr’s stuff on tape. ($17.95, 2 cassettes,
beautiful princess trying to break the spell and save the 3 hours, abridged, 0-787103-70-5, Dove Audio.)
handsome prince; Barbie Print 'n’ Play* helps users
create personalized print projects — stickers, cards and
more; and Barbie Storymaker lets users create original
Barbie stories. I’m not sure of prices or availability.
(* indicates CD-ROM on both Mac and Windows.) Willa Cather: Stories by Willa Cather, read by
Melissa Hughes. Think of Willa Cather, then think of
AUDIO Nebraska: the divide, the plains, the colors, and the
There are several mystery titles that I just loved awesome horizon lines. Cather’s stories and novels
this time around. Of course, there's Unnatural Expo- embrace life there in the early 1900s as no other
sure by Patricia Cornwell, read by Blair Brown. authors have done. I loved this tape. ($22.95, 2 tapes,
Another great Cornwell mystery with Kay Scarpetta. 3 hours, 1-883332-29-X, Audio Bookshelf. Available
from Ingram, BP.) A Thousand Acres by Jane Smiley,
read by Kathy Bates. A touching, poignant novel
Can You Afford Not to Call? about the human cost of a lifetime of farming — and
repressing, then confronting, the incest memories that
are deeply rooted in this particular farm family. ($22,
4 cassettes, 4 hours, abridged, 0-671-57727-1, Simon &
The Most Extensive Selection Schuster.)
There's this kids’ tape that I loved that has both
of Recordings by Women Eleanor and Hattie and the Wild Waves by Barbara
Cooney on it, read by the author. Cooney devoted
three years to researching the story of Eleanor
Feminist/Women’s Music + Comedy + World Roosevelt's childhood, and her meticulous attention to
historical detail lays the groundwork for superb visual
Drumming/Percussion + Rock/Pop + Spoken and verbal storytelling. Cooney says, “I think that
Alternative + Soundtracks + Men's Music Eleanor is the nicest book I've ever written.” Contrast-
ing with the sad and lonely childhood of Eleanor
Blues + Spirituality + Jazz + Classical Roosevelt is the book Hattie and the Wild Waves,
based on the life of Cooney’s mother. Filled with love,
Country + International + and much more... family, and hope, this is the story of a young girl's
inspiration and dreams. Ages 5 and up. $13.95, 1 cas-
sette, 40 minutes, 1-883332-31-1, Audio Bookshelf.
LADYSLIPPERQMUSIC Here's one we'll all enjoy: A Kind of Grace: The
Autobiography of the World’s Greatest Female
Nationally Distributing Music By Women Since 1976 Athlete by Jackie Joyner-Kersee, read by the author.
From the world’s greatest female athlete comes an
November /December 1997
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
inspiring story of triumph over poverty, racial depression, and self-defeating behaviors. $18.95, 2 cas-
discrimination, and life-threatening illness. $17.98, 2 settes, 3 hours, abridged, 1-56455-444-9, Sounds True.
cassettes, 3 hours, abridged, 1-57042-543-4, Warner The Healing of America by Marianne William-
Audio. son, read by the author. Presents a vision for America
Night Flying Woman: An Ojibway Narrative in which Williamson calls for a return to spiritual
by Ignatia Broker, read by Debra Smith. I couldn't get values and to principles outlined by our founding
into this tape, but Kati Jacobs, a friend of ours, abso- fathers [sic]. Explores the roots of politics to show how
lutely loved it! Here’s her review: “Journey to the we have lost our way, and how we can heal ourselves
not-so-distant past where two cultures collide and as we heal our nation. If you have a big Marianne
only one emerges. Or so it seems. Guided by the Williamson following, you'll probably need this tape.
wisdom of the Ojibway grandmothers, the tribe $18, 2 cassettes, 3 hours, abridged, 0-671-57653-4,
learns to appear to absorb itself into the white man’s Simon & Schuster.
world, while still maintaining the wisdom, knowl- Meditations by Shakti Gawain, read by the
edge, and values of generations gone by. Adopting author. Offers four different guided meditations, all
the white man’s vernacular, the grandmothers teach designed to help listeners develop qualities such as
their children to love the earth and one another and creativity, intuition, and inner strength to effect posi-
to wait...wait for the time when the caretakers of the tive change in their lives. $17.95, 3 hours, unabridged,
Mother will once again save us all from [the white 1-57731-023-3, New World Library.
man’s] destructive practices.” Kati highly recom- The Chalice & the Blade: Our History, Our
mends it. $22, 3 cassettes, 3 hours, 0-87351-293-6, Future by Riane Eisler, read by the author. This is a
Minnesota Historical Society Press. new, accessible adaptation of the ground-breaking
The Heart of a Woman by Maya Angelou, read book in which Eisler combines theory and scholarship
by the author. Angelou leaves California with her son to tell a new story of our cultural origins. She recon-
for New York, where she enters a world of Black artists structs a prehistoric culture based on partnership
and writers. Not since her childhood has she lived in rather than domination and traces the roots of the
an almost entirely Black environment, and she is sur- global shift to patriarchy, showing that war is neither
prised at the obsession her new friends have with the divinely nor biologically ordained. $17.95, 3 hours,
white world around them. Angelou chronicles her abridged, 1-57731-011-X, New World Library.
joys and burdens as a Black mother in America, and,
how the son she has cherished so intensely and
worked for so devotedly finally grows to be a man.
$18, 2 cassettes, 3 hours, abridged, 0-679-46097-7,
Random House.
The Dancing Mind by Toni Morrison, read by the The Writer’s Guide to the Internet by Dawn
author. This is the speech that Morrison gave for her Groves. Intended for writers who want to use their
acceptance of the National Book Foundation Medal computers for more than word processing, this book
for Distinguished Contribution to American Letters in focuses on the tools and skills needed to take advan-
1996. She speaks with brevity and passion to the pleas- tage of Internet resources, services, research, and
ures, the difficulties, and the necessities of the communication — from getting on the Web and creat-
reading /writing life in our time. $6, 1 cassette, 10 ing Web pages, to publishing an E-zine and copyright
minutes, unabridged, 0-679-46026-8, Random House. info. Very useful for writers who are also computer
Clearing Your Past: How to Explore Your folks. $18.95, 1-887902-13-9, Franklin, Beedle & Assoc.
Memories and Change Your Future by Lynne Finney,
read by the author. Teaches a direct way to uncover and G CR OE MAT P U G TIF ET R -I SD AEA VS V F YO R CUSTOMERS
heal the painful memories from the past. With step-by-
step instructions and case histories, Finney guides Women in the Arts is a CD-ROM of the collection
readers through a program for freeing themselves of from the National Museum of Women in the Arts. I’ve
the limiting core beliefs that can cause fear, guilt, just seen a demo of this, but it really looked good. You
65 November /December 1997
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
By Liz Wermcrantz placed itself in my personal top 10. $29.95 retail,
Women & Children First/Chicago First Run Features. Available from Wolfe Video and
Naiad Video.
Liz Wermcrantz from Women & Children First is Amazing World by Denise Ohio. This Northern
our new Video reviewer. Please send review copies to her Arts/Naiad Press release done by Denise's own pro-
at Women & Children First, Attn.: Liz Wermcrantz — duction company, Holy Toledo Pictures, is about two
FBN Video Reviewer, 5233 N. Clark St., Chicago IL tabloid reporters, Bing and Nico, as they track down
60640; 773-769-9299. strange and supposedly freaky occurrences in their
fight for the front page. Their relationship starts with
Born in Flames by Lizzie Borden. This futuris- the stereotypical tensions between two lesbians of
tic film was first released in 1983 but has been in completely different styles and pasts and quickly
moratorium for many years. Newly re-released, it turns sexual as they muddle through a case of serial
is so right-on in so many ways. Not only is it an killing with the assistance of a dead psychic. Call it a
amazingly written, acted, and directed film, it street-smart, grunge Claire of the Moon with a thriller’s
drives home its message in a way that is interesting, twist. $29.95 retail. Available from Naiad Video.
provocative, and enlightening despite the fact that Teasers: Provocative and Passionate Lesbian
the characters are dressed in some obviously 80s Erotica. This saucy collection of erotic shorts is
garb. Born in Flames opens ten years after the filled with the earnest tanglings of young lesbians.
social democratic war of liberation and we get the Included are films titled Top of the World, Regarde-
chance to look back on what's happened. Instead of Moi, Double Entente, and Love Strikes Hard, and a
the egalitarian society that social democracy pro- couple of music videos. These shorts take the
poses, we witness the typical compromises that viewer to coffee shops and bars and show many
occur when âa party comes to power. The strong tension-filled moments and erotic interludes. The
women in this film fight back. They struggle and video is a much-needed addition to the somewhat
rage against conflicts women face under all types of lacking world of lesbian erotica. $29.95, #5172.
governments and in all times. This film has firmly Available from Wolfe Video and Naiad Video. O
can browse, create a slide show, take a tour of the The Harvard Guide to Women’s Health, edited
museum, and find biographical material on lots of by Karen Carlson, Stephanie Eisenstat, and Terra
women artists. Could be very useful for teachers. Ziporyn. Pilgrim New Media and Harvard have
Advertised in the Feminist Bookstore Network Fall joined together to package the book and CD-ROM
Catalog. $49.95, 1-57768-010-3, Win/Mac CD-ROM, — at a reasonable price. It installed very easily on
McGraw-Hill Home Interactive. my Windows 95 computer. The info on the disk is
presented in easy-to-navigate menus — won’t scare
even a novice. I don't know, though, if we have
customers who will go the extra little bit to get a
CD-ROM — but perhaps it’s worth a try. $39.95,
The Heroic Legends of Hercules & Xena. This 0-674-36771-5, Win/Mac CD-ROM, Harvard
is a CD-ROM full of more information than you ever University Press.
wanted to know about Xena (and also Hercules, but Her Heritage: A Biographical Encyclopedia of
who cares about him?!). Includes never-before- Famous American Women, edited by Robert McHenry.
available bloopers. Full of video, audio, graphics, Some stores sold this well, many did not. The new
and text. A sure bet for the Xena fan clubs. $34.95, packaging is much more appealing. $49.95, 1-885213-
1-887692-28-2, Win CD-ROM, Software Sculptors. 07-7, Win/Mac CD-ROM, Pilgrim New Media.
November /December 1997 66
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Reel Women: The Untold Story. Based on the MORE VIDEO
book Reel Women: Pioneers of the Cinema by Ally Acker,
this CD features Jodie Foster, who says, “I think that By Jennifer Hichey
it would have changed me as a human being if I had Formerly with Full Circle/ Albuquerque
known that there were women who were so impor-
tantly involved in all aspects of filmmaking...” Two Friends, by the Academy Award-
Includes interviews, film clips and photographs, biog- winning director of The Piano, this is one of Jane
raphies and filmographies for 100 women Campion’s finest films. Louise and Kelly, once
filmmakers. I’m not a film buff, but I really enjoyed inseparable girlfriends, have now grown apart,
playing around in this CD. It includes a documentary their friendship having fallen prey to the typical
on the history of women in film. Users can sit back and teenage problems of boys, sex, and drugs. This
watch, or go searching for information on women, video tells the story of their heartbreaking rush
film, or whatever. Very nicely put together, installs toward adulthood with the honesty and passion
easily, interactive. 1-887233-15-6, Win CD-ROM. that are the hallmarks of Campion’s work. 76
minutes. $59.95, #11324. Available from Wolfe.
The Castro. Known internationally as the
world’s first “gay hometown,” San Francisco’s
Castro district has a rich history. This highly
FOR TEACHERS AND PARENTS acclaimed documentary is a must have. Filled
PCs for Teachers, 2nd Edition by Pamela Toliver with rare archival footage, the story of the
and Carol Kellogg. This could be really valuable for Castro's transformation over the years is told by
teachers — starts with what a computer is, dwells on those who love it, young and old, straight and
how to make one work, and then presents tons of ideas gay. $29.95, #11271. Available from Wolfe.
for using computers with students and in the teacher’s
p tor o f te es as ci ho n a cl o m li pf ue t. e rIn s c l wud ite hs o ug tr e aa t c op mro pp uo ts ea rls (s su adch ly a es n oh uo gw h, i
a given for many teachers). $24.99, 0-7645-0240-9, book
+ CD-ROM, IDG. Available from LPC. Women Speak Up: A Video Collection of
Dum C mre ia et sin g G W uie db e P a tg oes Ffo ar m K ilid ys a Cn od m P par uen tt is n: g T h be y Greg W Uno im tee dn ’ s N aV to ioic ne ss ’ If nr to em rn aA tir oo nu an l d W t oh me e nW ’so r Fld o r u— m ,The
Holden includes a CD with all the tools you'll need. Huairou, China, 1995. Produced by Esther
Hands-on, easy-to-follow reference for creating and Farnsworth and Linda Leehman. This is a colorful
publishing family members’ personal pages on the collage of events and music from the Fourth UN
Web for little or no cost. Simple, clear instructions International Women’s NGO Forum, attended by
show adults and kids how to organize and plan a 30,000 women from 189 countries. Captures the
complete Web site and even how to add animation, serious, predominant themes of the Forum and
sound, and graphics. $24.99, 0-7645-0156-9, IDG. also portrays the joyful celebration of women
Available from Ingram. being together. 58 minutes. SR$19.99/$11.99 from
Great Software for Kids & Parents by Cathy Multicultural Media, RR 3, Box 6655, Granger
Miranker and Alison Elliott gives hints on how to Rd., Barre VT 05641; 800-550-9675, 802-223-1294,
choose the best software for kids — how to evaluate faxG 802-o229-l183d4. Aevailnable rfromo Laddysl.ipp er anOd
different kinds of software, coordinate software with
schoolwork, and buy software that works for kids’
a 0g 0e 9s 9, - 6 g , r a IDd Ges ., Aan vad i l ai bn lt ee r fe rst os m. V Iner gy r a mha , n d By P. . $24.99, 0-7645- s to of t cw ha or oe s e d e ts hc er i p bt ei so tn s s o g fi tv we a r u es e tr os ta an k e i n cs hid ae r g elo o ok f a st c h h oo ow l
Take Charge Computing for Teens & Parents by work, social life, Web browsing, hobbies, sports, and
Pam Dixon helps teens and parents find relevant, maorbe. l Aeg es 1f2-r20.o $m24.99 , 0I-n764g5-0r10a1-1m, ID,G . ABvaiPl-. O
useful software and Web information. Hundreds of
67 November /December 1997
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
By Laura Quilter, University of Illinois at Chicago culture. In contrast to Arnason’s limited-technology
Library and Heather Whipple, Swarthmore College culture, White Queen presents another version of the
Library “first contact” story, this one set in early 21st-century
chock-full-o-technology Earth. A journalist in exile
Nice to meet you, FBN people. We are long-time encounters a person he assumes to be a “girl,” but
feminist science-fiction fans, sometime bookstore who is actually one of a group of marooned aliens.
employees, avid bookstore patrons, and current aca- The shifting points of view between human and alien
demic librarians. We met through our interest in offer a fascinating exploration of cultural assump-
. feminist SF, first online and then at WisCon, the annual tions and expectations.
feminist SF convention in Madison, Wisconsin. WisCon
is the birthplace and frequent home of the James Tiptree,
Jr., Award, presented, since 1992, to science fiction that
explores or expands gender roles. The Tiptree winners
offer an amazingly diverse sampling of what good Maureen F. McHugh’s China Mountain Zhang
(science) fiction can do, and most importantly, all the (St. Martin’s, $13.95 tp, 0312860986) presents a future
books (not counting two winning short stories by Earth in which China is the dominant world power
Ursula K. Le Guin) are still in print. Several of these titles and culture, frontier colonies have begun to settle
have been mentioned in previous issues of FBN, but Mars, and social constraints remain a powerful force
they're all good enough to warrant another look and in the lives of the characters. The book’s chapters
keep in stock. In this issue we'll review the Tiptree books switch narrators, all of whose lives intersect loosely
and revisit some other fabulous titles, new and old, that with each other, though the primary story is told by
should expand horizons and inspire devoted follow- Zhang, a gay Chinese student/engineer /designer.
ings among your customers. Ammonite by Nicola Griffith (Ballantine, $5.99
pb, 0345378911) takes place on Jeep, a planet with a
virus that kills most people infected by it — including
all men. An anthropologist is sent to test a new vac-
cine for the virus and to find out how the original
The first Tiptree winners were White Queen by colonists survived and thrived. Her journey across
Gwyneth Jones (Orb, $12.95 tp, 0312890133) and A Jeep leads to her own journey of change and discov-
Woman of the Iron People (WIP) by Eleanor Arnason ery. This is a women-only novel with no separatist
[two volumes: WIP: In the Light of Sigma Draconis discussion — the virus is a big problem, but the pros
(Avon, $4.99 pb, 0380756374) and WIP: Changing or cons of the absence of men is simply not an issue.
Women (Avon, $4.99 pb, 0380756382)]. A Woman of Nancy Springer’s Larque on the Wing (Avon,
the Iron People chronicles the experiences of two $4.99 pb, 0380767422) was a co-winner. Larque may
women, one from Earth exploring a new planet, the be familiar to many of us — a middle-aged woman
other a native of that planet, a wanderer and outcast wondering who she is and who she wanted to be and
searching for a way to live with herself and her who she wants to become. Humorous and fantastical,
November /December 1997 68
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
serious and metaphysical, the story follows Larque as available through Firebrand and is now back in
she encounters, searches for, and becomes different print. It will have ongoing popularity; it is well-
incarnations of herself: a grubby, skeptical 10-year-old written and interesting, and should appeal to lesbian
appalled at how the 40-year-old turned out, a fun- and SF audiences.
loving, adventurous young gay man, and the new old
person she (re)discovers in herself. BANTAM
Both Waking the Moon by Elizabeth Hand Sheri Tepper’s work provokes and satisfies. A
(HarperCollins, $5.99 pb, 0061054437) and Theodore prolific author, she also writes mysteries as B.J.
Roszak’s The Memoirs of Elizabeth Frankenstein Oliphant and A.J. Orde. Beauty ($5.99 pb, 0553295276),
(Bantam, $5.99 pb, 0553576372) involve secret Gibbon’s Decline and Fall ($6.50 pb, 0553573985),
goddess-worshiping groups and explore images of Grass ($5.99 pb, 0553285653), and The Gate to
the Goddess as both creator and destroyer. Hand’s Women’s Country ($5.99 pb, 0553280643).
illuminati-style believers live and die in a modern
high-gothic world of academia and magic. Anyone
familiar with Mary Shelley’s tale knows that the char-
acters in the Frankenstein story also inhabit a gothic
world; Roszak’s retelling of the story from Elizabeth's BEACON
point of view is compelling and surprising; her mem- Both Octavia Butler's Kindred ($13 tp, 08070-83054)
oirs are full of events as strange and charged as and Monique Wittig’s Les Guérrillères ($12.95 tp,
Victor’s concurrent experiences creating the monster. 0807063010) are classics that should retain their popular-
Mary Doria Russell’s novel The Sparrow is still ity. Kindred — the story of a woman who finds herself
in hardcover and will be out in paperback this Fall mysteriously back in time as a slave — is one of Butler’s
(Fawcett, $12 tp, 0449912558). Reviewed in the best-known works. Wittig’s work — strange and some-
May/June 1997 issue of FBN, it’s just as highly times hard to read — is sought after nonetheless.
recommended now as then. Rich characters and a
suspenseful, tragic story of first contact between CLEIS PRESS
humans and aliens focus on the transformation of a Pam Keesey, ed. Women Who Run with the
Puerto Rican Jesuit priest struggling with his love of Werewolves ($12.95 tp, 1573440574), Dark Angels:
God, his different loves for his human companions, Lesbian Vampire Stories ($10.95 tp, 1573440140), and
and his awe-ful encounter with the alien culture. Daughters of Darkness: Lesbian Vampire Stories
Three retrospective Tiptrees were awarded to ($9.95 tp, 0939416786). Look for her new one: Vamps:
works that would have won had the award existed An Illustrated History of the Femme Fatale ($21.95
when the books were originally published: Ursula K. tp, 1573440264). The Keesey anthologies are great fun,
Le Guin, The Left Hand of Darkness (Ace, $6.50 pb, and will be picked up by readers of erotica and lesbian
0441478123); Joanna Russ, The Female Man (Beacon, fiction as well as SF fans.
$11 tp, 0807063134); and Suzy McKee Charnas, Walk
to the End of the World and Motherlines (InBook, FEMINIST PRESS
$14.99 tp, 0704341549 — one volume for both titles). The Feminist Press continues to release marvel-
The third book in Charnas’ series was published ous works by forgotten or under-rated feminist
almost 20 years after the first two: The Furies (Tor, writers. Katherine Burdekin’s Swastika Night ($9.95
$5.99 pb, 0812548191). tp, 0935312560) examines the misogyny that under-
Other award-winning, Tiptree “sħort-listed” SF, pinned Nazi ideology in this frightening tale of a
and recent titles are listed below. All of these books debased future; book groups may wish to compare
have stood the test of time. this work with Orwell's 1984 or Charnas’ Walk to the
End of the World. Burdekin’s The End of This Day’s
AVON Business ($8.95 tp, 155861009X) also takes place in a
Severna Park, Speaking Dreams ($5.99 pb, far future, one in which men are the second sex.
0380729245). This very interesting story was first Compare this work with Naomi Mitchison’s
69 November /December 1997
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
far-future Solution Three ($10.95 tp, 1558610960) in from Neveryon ($14.95 tp, 0819562777), Neveryona
which heterosexuality is frowned upon. ($14.95 tp, 0819562718), Return to Neveryon ($14.95
tp, 0819562785), Silent Interviews on Language,
HARCOURT BRACE & CO Race, Sex, Science Fiction, & Some Comics ($17.95
Pamela Sargent, ed. Women of Wonder: The tp, 0819562807), Tales of Neveryon ($13.95 tp,
Classic Years ($15 tp, 0156000318), and Women of 081956270X), and Trouble on Triton: An Ambiguous
Wonder: The Contemporary Years ($15 tp, 01560- Heterotopia ($14.95 tp, 081956298X).
00334). These large trades include most of the stories
in the original three out-of-print Women of Wonder VIKING PENGUIN
books; with some exclusions and some new mate- Angela Carter's short work, especially, is fabu-
rial. These might be the best introductions to lous, and has fortunately just been collected in
women’s SF available. Burning Your Boats ($14.95 tp, 0140255281). Her dark
humor and intense writing stay with you a long, long
HARPERCOLLINS time; expect readers to snap it up.
Ursula K. Le Guin is widely published, but many
of her titles are available from HarperCollins. Her WARNER
writing and wisdom improve with each work; she is Nearly all of the Octavia Butler canon is being
truly one of this century’s great writers and thinkers. reissued by Warner in eye-catching metallic covers.
Her recent works, including Four Ways to Forgive- Bulter is the recent recipient of a MacArthur “genius”
ness ($5.99 pb, 0061054011), display a wonderful award. Her work — especially Kindred (Beacon,
consciousness of the ways in which power structures above) — is also frequently used in college classes on
affect our lives. Older collections and works, such as literature, women’s studies and African American
The Wind’s Twelve Quarters ($4.99 pb, 0061056057) studies. Adulthood Rites ($5.99 pb, 0446603783),
and The Dispossessed ($5.50 pb, 0061054887), remain Clay’s Ark ($5.99 pb, 0446603708, February), Dawn
as true and popular as ever. ($5.99 pb, 0446603775), Imago ($5.99 pb, 0446603635),
Mind of My Mind ($5.99 pb, 0446361887, February),
INDIANA UNIVERSITY PRESS Parable of the Sower ($5.99 pb, 0446601977, Febru-
Joanna Russ’ To Write Like a Woman: Essays in ary), Patternmaster ($5.50 pb, 0446362816, February),
Feminism and Science Fiction ($12.95 tp, 02532- and Wild Seed ($5.99 pb, 0445205377, February).
09838) was reviewed in FBN January/February 96.
Russ’ essays are witty and insightful. An excellent
book for any writer or reader.
SEVEN STORIES After wandering through several book-related jobs
Octavia Butler’s Bloodchild & Other Stories (library assistant, mainstream publishing, bookstore clerk
($10 tp, 1888363363) contains several of Butler’s at a Doubleday chain store/Stamford, CT and Wordsworth
most sought-after short fiction pieces. Books/Cambridge, desktop publishing, Aquarius Books,
(the now defunct Bloomington, Indiana women’s book-
ST. MARTIN’S store) volunteer, and English grad student), Heather
Candas Jane Dorsey's Black Wine ($22.95 cl, Whipple finally realized she should be a librarian and has
0312861818) was reviewed in FBN March/April 97. been one since 1995.
Watch for this one to win awards. Worth every penny Laura Quilter has been a librarian for over four years
for hardcover — highly recommended. and a feminist for most of her life (but especially since she grew
up). She's worked with New World Resource Center, a leftist
UNIVERSITY PRESS OF NEW ENGLAND bookstore, Autonomous Zone, an anarchist info-shop and
Samuel Delany is a perennial favorite with queer bookstore, and the Gerber/Hart Library & Archives
and feminist readers. Literary, dense and wildly (Midwestern lesbigay archives). Laura patronizes women’s
imaginative, he writes both fiction and lit-crit. Flight bookstores, and now flagrantly avoids chain bookstores. O
November /December 1997 70
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
By Nan Cinnater Native American mysteries are hot, but very few
Cape & Dagger and Now Voyager / of the authors are Native American themselves, and
Provincetown, MA it’s hard to tell if they are actually experts in tribal lore
and culture. I have discovered only a couple of excep-
In the better-late-than-never department, here are tions. Carole laFavor is a Two-Spirit (lesbian) Ojibwa
a couple of interesting new mysteries by African writer, whose first mystery, Along the Journey River,
American women. Rhode Island Red by Charlotte introduced Two-Spirit Ojibwa sleuth Renee LaRoche.
Carter is both jazzy and poetic, befitting the main Renee lives on the Red Earth Reservation in Minne-
interests of the author and her heroine. Fictional sota. The mystery involves the theft of sacred objects
sleuth Nanette is a sax-playing street musician with an from a tribal exhibit at the local high school, followed
advanced degree in French lit, who lives in New York by the murder of the Tribal Chairman. Some of the
City but pines for Paris. Suddenly, an undercover cop nature writing is beautiful (reminiscent of Nevada
is found dead in her apartment, sixty thousand dollars Barr), and Ojibwa traditions and beliefs are wonder-
turns up stashed in her sax, and a strange man wants fully woven into Renee’s reality, but the pacing is too
her to help him understand jazz great Charlie Parker. leisurely and the plot too complicated to build much
With an ambiguous ending that packs a wallop, suspense. ($10.95 tp, 1-56341-070-2, Firebrand.) Renee
Rhode Island Red is the kind of avant-garde, neo-noir is back this Fall in Evil Dead Center, in which she
mystery that one would hope to find in a feminist uncovers a child pornography ring, and is reunited
bookstore, and it’s an affordably priced hardcover at with her old girlfriend from her radical American
$15.99. 1-85242-5664-4, Serpent's Tail. Indian Movement days. This complicates her already
In Caught in a Rundown, a much more tradi- challenging relationship with her chimook (white)
tional mystery that’s already getting a lot of positive lover, a women’s studies professor. With more at stake
attention, Lisa Saxton introduces “baseball wives” in the plot, and with a promised “terrifying” climax (a
Jewel Averick and Dee Sweet. Both are married to wilderness chase in a blizzard), Evil Dead Center may
major league baseball players, but that's all this odd be dead on target. ($11.95 tp, 1-56341-088-5, Firebrand.
couple seem to have in common. Jewel is Black and Dee Cloth also available for both titles.)
is white. Jewel is gorgeous and selfish, Dee is timid and
self-effacing. The two go on a kind of treasure hunt for
a glove that belonged to a legendary player in the old
Negro Leagues. The plot unfolds at a breakneck pace,
with baseball lore, African American history, and lots
of wonderful characters thrown into the mix. Perhaps
most important, the mystery provides an opportunity
for the two women to grow and change and become Mardi Oakley Medawar is an Eastern Band Chero-
friends. $21 cl, 0-684-82967-3, Scribner. kee who writes about a 19th century Kiowa man named
I Pl alu rast dr igat mio n Ps u bb ly is h Y ina gn .i Batteau from The Dyke Detector, T Sta .y - Mbo ad ra tl i. n ’sD e a inth 1 9at 9 6 ,R a ai nn dy BM oo ou kn lit sa ti n c aw lla es d p itu b l “i as h bed ea ub ty ifully
Volume 20 Number 4 71 November /December 1997
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
written, life-affirming, heartwarming story....” Now we wonderful Carolyn Heilbrun, author of The Last Gift
have Witch of the Palo Duro, set in 1867, when the of Time) brings back feminist professor Kate Fansler in
Rattle Band return to their traditional winter camp and The Puzzled Heart, her first mystery novel since the
bad things begin to happen. When a death and a disap- very political An Imperfect Spy. ($19.95 cl, 345-41883-2,
pearance are blamed on a mysterious witch, Tay-bodal January, Ballantine.)
must uncover the truth before the camp is destroyed by Anne Perry now has two well-established Victo-
fear. $21.95 cl, 0-312-17065-3, St. Martin's. rian mystery series, and both sell for us in hardcover.
The holidays are good for selling hardcovers, so The Silent Cry is her eighth novel in the series featur-
here are a number to consider. Liza Cody brings back ing brooding investigator William Monk and his
her formidable, dysfunctional female wrestler Eva companion Hester Latterly. This one takes us into the
Wylie in Musclebound. This is the third in a British underworld of Victorian prostitution. ($24.95 cl,
series that transcends the genre with its class and 0-449-90848-8, Fawcett.) The most recent paperback
gender consciousness and strange-but-true emotional in this series is Weighed in the Balance, published in
realism. The previous titles were Bucket Nut and October. ($6.99, 0-804-11562-1, Ivy.)
Monkey Wrench. ($22 cl, 0-89296-601-7, Mysterious On the legal front, Lisa Scottoline begins a new
Press /Warner.) Cold Blood by Lynda LaPlante is the series about an all-female Philadelphia law firm with
sequel to the outstanding Cold Shoulder, about cop- Rough Justice. ($23 cl, 0-06-018746-8, Harper.)
turned-private-eye Lorraine Page. Here Lorraine Scottoline has a nice sense of humor, which so many
continues to struggle with alcoholism as she searches legal thrillers (not to say lawyers) are missing. Her
for the daughter of a faded movie star in New Orleans. most recent paperback, also about a woman lawyer,
($23 cl, 0-679-44104-2, Random House.) Foggy Moun- is Legal Tender. ($6.99 pb, 0-06-109412-9, Harper.)
tain Breakdown is a collection of short stories, some Naiad author Penny Mickelbury has jumped
of them mysteries, by Sharon McCrumb, who has ship for the big bucks (we hope) of the mainstream.
made quite an impression lately with such well- According to Mickelbury, her new novel, One Must
received mysteries as S/he Walks These Hills and If I'd Wait, concerns “criminal defense attorney Carole Ann
Killed Him When I Met Him. Whether customers will go Gibson, who gets tossed into the swampy waters of
for a mixed bag of her stories is your call. ($22.50 cl, environmental racism, pollution, and, of course, mur-
0-345-41493-4, Ballantine.) der.” There doesn’t appear to be significant lesbian
content, but it’s good nevertheless to see another Af-
rican American woman publishing mysteries in the
mainstream. $22 cl, 0-684-83741-2, January, Simon &
Schuster.
One essential anthology for the holidays is The
Best of Sisters in Crime, a cream-of-the-collections
culled from five volumes of Sisters in Crime, edited by
Many old reliables return this season. Already in Marilyn Wallace. This includes George, Grafton,
stores at this writing is Road Rage, the new Inspector Maron, Muller, Paretsky, and just about every other
Wexford novel by Ruth Rendell, which involves envi- big name in American women’s mystery writing.
ronmental terrorists and Wexford’s wife. ($25 cl, ($21.95 cl, 0-425-16060-2, December, Berkley.) A very
0-609-60056-7, Crown.) P.D. James, the grande dame of interesting, mixed-gender anthology that will prob-
British mystery, is back with a new Dalgliesh mystery, ably be a luxury for most stores is Murder and Other
the first since Original Sin. In A Certain Justice, crime Acts of Literature, edited by Michele Slung. Emphati-
literally enters the British justice system when a cally not a collection of whodunits, this includes
woman barrister is found dead in her chambers. ($25 stories of murder by literary greats like Isak Dinesen,
cl, 0-375-40109-1, December, Pantheon.) Martha Virginia Woolf, Alice Walker, Nadine Gordimer, and
Grimes has a new entry in her Richard Jury series, The Isabel Allende, along with a number of male heavy-
Case Has Altered. ($24.95 cl, 0-805056203, Henry weights. ($24.95 cl, 0-312-16937-X, St. Martin's.)
Holt.) And Amanda Cross (who is, of course, the If you want to take a chance on any first mysteries
November /December 1997 72
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
during this giving season, a good bet might be Flower art and feminism; it looks great. ($12.95 tp, 0-345-
Net by Lisa See, author of the acclaimed memoir On 40963-9, Ballantine.) Ballantine is re-issuing Smith’s
Gold Mountain, about her Chinese father’s family. (Two first mystery, The Vanished Child, set in turn-of-
good signs: this woman can write, and she knows the-century New England, in a matching edition.
China firsthand.) Flower Net is a thriller that mixes ($12 tp, 0-345-41805-0.)
politics and police à la Gorky Park, but in modern China. In mass market paperback, there's Golden
A Chinese woman cop and a male U.S. DA team up to Dagger Award winner, The Mermaids Singing by Val
solve some diplomatically sensitive murders. ($24 cl, McDermid. It’s not clear to me whether this is part of
0-06-017527-3, Harper.) An intriguing unknown is To McDermidď’s nifty Kate Brannigan series, but in any
Shield the Queen by Fiona Buckley, an historical case it is a departure for her, with a terrifying serial
mystery set in the court of Queen Elizabeth I. Ursula killer and graphic, grisly murders. For the squeamish,
Blanchard acts as an agent of the queen to preserve her you might suggest her very entertaining Kate Branni-
good name when the wife of the queen’s favorite meets gan mysteries, Crack Down and Clean Break, or her
foul play. ($21 cl, 0-684-83841-9, Scribner.) sharp lesbian mysteries, Deadline for Murder and
Although it will miss the holiday buying frenzy Common Murder. For serial killer fans, of course, this
(on sale December 29), there's a lot of hype about is as good as it gets. $6.50 pb, 0-06-101175-4, Harper.
another first mystery, Render Up the Body by Also great for the Silence of the Lambs crowd is
Marianne Wesson, a legal thriller about a lawyer who Eyeshot by Lynn Hightower, sequel to Flashpoint,
runs a rape crisis center. Because of her opposition to about Cincinnati police detective Sonora Blair, here
the death penalty, she’s drawn into the courtroom on investigating an eight-year-old murder that turns
the side of a convicted rapist/murderer. $24 c|, political. Hightower writes lean, smart prose in
0-06-018292-X, December, Harper. creepy thrillers worthy of the name. $6.50 pb, 0-06-
Notable lesbian mysteries this season include 109609-1, Harper.
Murder in the Castro by Elaine Beale, which looks to
be intriguingļly political at the very least. Heroine Lou
Spencer works as an advocate for victims of gay
bashings in San Francisco, but the work gets a little
too personal when someone in her own agency is
murdered. ($10.95 tp, 0-934678-87-1, New Victoria.)
Two of Naiad’s biggest sellers have new entries: Old Chestnut Mare, Beware by Jody Jaffe, the sequel
Black Magic by Jaye Maiman, in paper, thank you to Horse of a Different Killer, brings back Charlotte
($11.95, 1-56280-175-9, December) and Chain Letter reporter Natalie Gold, a misfit in the Southern WASP
by Australian Claire McNab ($11.95, 1-56280-181-3, horse world, who investigates the death of a former
November). beauty queen at the hooves of an unruly mare. ($5.99
Do historical mysteries sell well for women’s pb, 0-804-11552-4, Ivy.) In The Dead Man and the Sea
bookstores? They are becoming increasingly popu- by Janice Steinberg, public radio reporter Margo
lar in mystery stores, so you may want to give them Simon looks into the suspicious death at sea of a
a try. Colonial midwife Hannah Trevor is the heroine skilled sailor. Steinberg’s books almost always raise
of Hearts and Bones by Margaret Lawrence, nomi- interesting political/cultural issues. ($5.99 pb, 0-425-
n oa ute td if nor pbo at ph e rt .h e ( $E 5dg .9ar 9 an pd b , A g 0at -h 3a 8 0A -w 7a 8r 8d 7s, 9 -n 9o ,w Avon.) s1 o6 c0 i3 a7 l - 8 is, s uB ee sr k il ne y h.) e rJ a sn ee rt i e sD a aw bs oo un t a Cl as lo i f or ra nis ie as Pi Im . p Jo er rt iant
Lawrence’s hardcover follow up is Blood Red Howard. Jeri stalks a stalker who has been harassing
Roses. ($23 cl, 0-380-97352-9, Avon.) The Knowl- five young women in A Credible Threat. ($5.99,
edge of Water by Sarah Smith is a critically 0-449-22357-4, Fawcett.) Dawson's new hardcover is
acclaimed psychological mystery that The New York Witness to Evil, in which Jeri follows a missing teen
Times called, “lushly erotic...a rain drenched portrait to Paris, and into a confrontation with neo-Nazis.
of Edwardian Paris that could hang in the Louvre.” ($21.95 cl, 0-449-00042-7, Fawcett.) Lethal Genes is
This also has interesting intellectual content about See Mysteries, page 135.
73 November / December 1997
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsЕетіпіѕі ВооКѕіоге М№Меуѕ
Үгатѕ о} Еетіпіѕт
То ѕѓоск Мѕ. Мағеахітпе сопіасі
ЅМАПШ. СНАМСЕХЅ АТ 1-800-СЕТ МАС$
(УУеѕі Соаѕё ОіѕігіБиѓогз Опіу)
МоуетЬег /ОесетЬег 1997 74 УоІите 20 Митрег 4
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
HUMO
Just who the hell
a SHE, BALEA
By Roz Warren
Not Now, I'm Having a No Hair Day: Humor
and Healing for People with Cancer is a humor book
by cancer survivor Christine Clifford, alternating
brief prose descriptions of her own experiences with
diagnosis and treatment with very funny cartoons.
Clifford wrote the book, she says, because when she
was in the hospital recovering from her mastectomy,
nobody brought her anything that made her laugh.
This book, an insider’s view of a tough experience,
will do the trick for anybody coping with cancer. My
favorite cartoon shows Clifford at a party, refusing
the offer of a cigarette by saying, “Gee, no thanks...I
already have cancer.” $9.95, 1-57025-120-7. Pfeifer-
Hamilton Publishers, 210 West Michigan, Duluth
MN 55802.
Although it isn’t entirely a humor book, I abso- By Marisa Acocella NZZ: V
lutely must sing the praises of From Suffragettes to
She-Devils: Women’s Liberation & Beyond by Liz One of hundreds of graphic images reproduced in
McQuiston, which is thrilling, absorbing, empower- Suffragettes to She-Devils:
ing, feminist, lesbian friendly...and very, very Women’s Liberation and Beyond (Phaidon Press Ltd)
expensive. From Suffragettes provides a thorough
examination of the struggle for the liberation of graphics, along with readable and informative text
women, chronicled through posters, leaflets, buttons, about the history of 20th-century feminism. The
billboards, advertising and other forms of graphic hefty price tag makes it unaffordable for most, but if
media. (Happily, the author includes plenty of humor you do get it into your store I guarantee you'll fall in
love with this book. $59.96, 0-7148-3619-2, Phaidon
a tn hd e cc lo am ssi ic c a “r Dt o, yfr oo um k na o wf u l tl h-p ea g we o mco elo nr ’s T mep or vO emdU encH teR of Press/Chronicle Books.
has no sense of humor?” cover of Ms. magazine to Lea DeLaria’s Box Lunch faithfully reproduces an
Wonder Woman wielding a speculum, and HotHead evening with this loud, profane, raucous lesbian comic,
Paisan and Chicken on the rampage.) Basically, this whose shows mix high-octane humor with hot jazz.
is a great big beautiful coffee table book for feminists, DeLaria’s shtick is honest and bitter, celebrating the
packed with lovely, moving, funny and priceless hatred of powerful creeps and bigots. (She encourages
Volume 20 Number 4 75 November /December 1997
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
the audience to chant along to something she refers to Canadian Books, continued from page 53.
as “Italian Karma:” They hate us so...We Hate Them!) activist speaks out against poor-bashing, homelessness,
She also makes fun of certain aspects of her own com- gentrification and other abuses. Includes 15 b&w photos.
munity, like her funny riffs about lesbian folk music and C$18.95/$14.95 pb, 0-88974-076-3, Press Gang, Gen-
the term “lesbigay.” And nobody is better at excoriating eral/LPC.
straight white guys in power, such as Bill Clinton Undulating Women/Erect Men: The Visual
(“What a putz!”), Jesse Helms (“Jesse Fucking Helms — Imagery of Gender, Race and Progress in Recon-
when is he gonna die?”) and Newt Gingrich (whom she structive Illustrations of Human Evolution by
refers to as “the other white meat”). And the music is Melanie G. Wiber — Paleoanthropological conven-
great, too. $15.98, Rising Star Records. tions and how they've influenced illustrations of our
Another fine and funny CD from Rising Star is The origins in popular publications such as National
Best of Lesbian Comedy, a well-chosen sampler of Geographic. C$24.95 tent. cl, 0-88920-247-5. 40% for
material by Kate Clinton, Sara Cytron, Karen Williams, 1—9. Wilfrid Laurier University Press, 75 University
Karen Ripley, Dos Fallopia and others. It’s a nice mix of Avenue W., Waterloo ON, N2L 3C5; 519-884-0710,
well-known and up-and-coming comics. $15.98. email (press@mach1.wlu.ca).
Why take sex seriously? Rina Piccolo’s third
cartoon collection, Rina’s Big Book of Sex Cartoons
(Laugh Lines Press, $8.95, 1-889594-02-4) includes
hilarious work on topics ranging from sex education
and fake orgasms to the National Dildo Company Editing Women by Ann M. Hutchison — A collec-
and Dr. Ruth on a bad day. Rina’s cartoons appear tion of essays presented at the Annual Conference on
everywhere, including Ms., Glamour, the Funny Times, Editorial Problems held at the University of Toronto.
and the Utne Reader. Her first two collections, Stand C$14.95 pb, 0-8020-8048-0, University of Toronto.
Back, I Think I'm Gonna Laugh ($7.95, 0-9632526-3-1) Challenging the Public/Private Divide:
and Kicking the Habit: Cartoons About the Catholic Feminism, Law, and Public Policy edited by Susan B.
Church ($7.95, 0-9632526-7-4), are also available from Boyd — Essays by feminist scholars on issues ranging
Laugh Lines Press. from childcare to violence against women. (C$24.95
The good news is that Leanne Franson’s Assume pb, 0-8020-7652-1, University of Toronto.) Also,
Nothing finally collects in trade paperback (rather Unshielded: The Human Cost of the Dalkon Shield
than mini-zine form) the semi-autographical adven- IUD by Mary F. Hawkins. (C$17.95 pb, 0-8020-7861-3,
tures of her bisexual character “Liliane.” (You can University of Toronto.)
check out Franson’s work in Dyke Strippers.) The bad Family Violence: A Canadian Introduction by
news is that since it’s published by a U.K. press, distri- Ann Duffy and Julianne Momirov — A feminist
bution in this country is still iffy. I will keep you posted. analysis using case histories and other concrete exam-
$10, 1-899866-04-3. Slab-O-Concrete Publications, PO ples. C$19.95 pb, 1-55028-582-3, James Lorimer,
Box 148, Hove U.K., BN3 3DQ. Available from Alamo Formac.
Square and Diamond Comics Distribution. The New Midwifery: Reflections on Renais-
Finally...it'll never happen again (I promise!), but sance and Regulation edited by Farah M. Shroff — A
this Fall, Laugh Lines Press is actually publishing a multicultural collection of essays examining the im-
humor book by a straight white male. The book is pact of professionalism, legalization and state
Vance Lehmkuhl’s The Joy of Soy and it’s the world’s involvement on woman-centered care. C$18.95/
first (and funniest) vegetarian cartoon collection. $16.95 pb, 0-88961-224-2, Women’s Press, University
TJOS pokes fun at meat-eaters and vegetarians alike. of Toronto/LPC.
You'll laugh over mysterious party dips, tuna-safe Mothering Teens edited by Miriam Kaufman —
tuna, raising vegetarian kids and the increasingly Information from 19 professionals about sexuality,
topical “What’s Really in That Burger?” If you've got body image, spirituality, addiction, divorce, death.
veggie customers, check this one out. $8.95, 1-889594- Includes issues of race, class and sexual orientation.
03-2, Laugh Lines Press. o C$16.95 pb, 0-921881-46-0, gynergy, General/LPC. O
November /December 1997 76
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
By Susan Frazier virgin companions were martyred by the Huns in
Goldenrod Music, Inc. Germany when Ursula refused to marry their pagan
chief. Harmonia Mundi 907200.
This Fall is a great time for buyers of women’s Gone from Danger/Joan Baez. The woman can
music! Whether your customers’ tastes run towards sing — there’s never been any doubt about that!
folk, rock, classical, gospel, Celtic, alternative or “just” However, Joan Baez also possesses another skill that
your “classic” women’s music, there's something for has gone mostly unnoticed. Bob Dylan and Leonard
all of them! Cohen were early examples of her uncanny ability to
Looking for new releases from old favorites? discover the best new songwriters. On this new
Check out the new releases by Holly Near, Linda album, the tradition continues, featuring songs from
Tillery and Joan Baez. A folk junkie? Not to worry — Dar Williams, Richard Shindell, Sinead Lohan and
there's music by Catie Curtis, Dar Williams, Eliza Betty Elders. Expect to hear Joan's new music on
Gilkyson and Suzzy Roche (of The Roches). Celtic fans national folk radio shows as well! as many NPR,
will delight in new albums from Loreena McKennitt, college, adult alternative and folk specialty shows.
Aine Minogue and several wonderful new compila- Guardian 59357.
tions. And for the twenty-something crowd, there's a
great new release by The Murmurs and the way cool
soundtrack to All Over Me. And let's not forget...
Gillian Anderson????
Extremis (CD single)/Gillian Anderson. Gillian Refuge/Jennifer Berezan. This fourth album
Anderson??? Scully from The X-Files??? Alas, it's true. from the Canadian-born Berezan is her most direct
This CD single features the theme music from the hit and powerful recording to date, as well as her most
TV show, with Anderson providing cool voice overs. acoustic. Her fresh blend of folk, rock and urban coun-
The sound could best be described as “sexy-techno- try will appeal to fans of Mary-Chapin Carpenter or
dance meets Enya.” Virgin 38599. the Indigo Girls. The songs share a common theme,
refuge as a place of safety and strength that can also
provide a home, a community and meaning in an
increasingly technological world. Accompanying
musicians on this release include Nina Gerber, Jami
11,000 Virgins/Anonymous Four. Finally — the Sieber and Laurie Lewis. Edge of Wonder 10.
women whose voices blend to make ancient music The Sky Road/ Frances Black. One of the leading
come alive again are lending their incredible talents to contemporary artists to emerge from Ireland in recent
the works of Hildegard von Bingen. The group was years, Black's two tracks on the bestselling A Woman's
named to honor the many anonymous women whose Heart album paved the way for the success of her first
compositions are often forgotten. This album is built album, Talk to Me. This second solo release is soothing
around the music for the feast of St. Ursula and the and fulfilling. The title track retraces the path of
11,000 virgins. According to legend, St. Ursula and her immigration, “Love’s Magic Bite” showcases her
77 November /December 1997
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
jazzy side, and her rendition of the love song “Once and at festivals with her unique vocal delivery and
You Said You Loved Me” is sure to win her new fans. gifted songwriting. Her arrangements range from
Celtic Heartbeat 53097. fully orchestrated pop/rock to solo vocal and frame
Catie Curtis/Catie Curtis. We've known for drum performances. Herrick may not be as well
years what a gift Catie Curtis has to offer — the world known as many artists, but in-store play will guaran-
is now beginning to catch on, too! Like the simple tee sales! Gadfly 234.
electricity of her live performances, this new album Hunger/Janis Ian. “A revolutionary artist of
captures a unique artist at the height of her craft. Her immeasurable musical substance — singing inti-
poignant and heartfelt storytelling has earned her a mate stories of passion about the many stages of
place among such highly regarded peers as Shawn ‘hunger’ in life.” There will definitely be a huge
Colvin and the Indigo Girls. Guardian 57209. media push on this new release. Not only will there
Redemption Road/Eliza Gilkyson. Her fourth be extensive radio promotion and a nationwide tour,
album blends together such diverse influences as folk, Janis will appear on the Howard Stern Show, Conan
Celtic, pop, rock and Americana. Laced with earthy O'Brien and Rosie O'Donnell. Cassette samplers were
grooves, soaring harmonies, mandolins and fiddles, distributed at the Lilith Fair as well as Ani DiFranco
her intimate, honest lyrics draw attention to her rich shows (Ani performs and produced one track on the
and versatile vocals. Gilkyson’s audience was defi- album). A portion of the proceeds from this release
nitely enhanced with the inclusion of her track “Wild will go to Futures for Children, a charity promoting
Horses” on Putumayo’s Women's Work compilation self-reliance through community education.
last year. Expect extensive touring through next Windham Hill 1274.
spring. MTI 397. Perishable Fruit/Patty Larkin. “A body of work,
Paint/Susan Herrick. For years, this marvelous organically grown, ready to be eaten.” So this album
artist has mesmerized fans in the Philadelphia area was described prior to its release and the words are
true. The New York Times called her “comparable to the
best of Bonnie Raitt” and this new album demon-
You’ve heard that strates her talent. Special guests include Jane Siberry,
(M7 Jennifer Kimball (of The Story) and Bruce Cockburn.
music sells great. Larkin’s relentless tour schedule continues to increase
Goldenrod Music her fan base. Highstreet 10354.
Full of Faraway /Zoe Lewis. This new album from
makes it easy too! Zoe is also full of fun and joyful music! Her showcase
performance at the National Women’s Music Festival
«v Same Day Shipping this past spring was spectacular, leaving the audience
(New Stores - Free Shipping for 3 Orders) begging for more. Highlights include “Caroline” and
s Large Selection “Two Step to Heaven.” Dog Called Dog 3.
Z No Risk - 100% Returns Beneath the Devil Moon /Michelle Malone. Ten
years of touring and several recordings (under the
v Knowledgeable Staff names Band de Soleil and Drag the River as well as
(...and fun to talk to!) her own moniker) all come together in this new inde-
VVVVVVVVVVVVYVYVUþYVYV pendent release. Described by the Philadelphia Inquirer
as the “new alternative voice that deserves to be
heard,” this Georgia-bred musician with a distinctive
and powerful voice has built a solid and rabid follow-
ing not unlike those of Ani DiFranco and the Indigo
Girls. Velvel Records 79703.
The Book of Secrets/Loreena McKennitt.
Simply put, anyone who has discovered this wonder-
ful artist will need this new release. Similar in style to
November /December 1997 78
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
her earlier album, The Visit, this album was inspired With a Song in My Heart/Holly Near. Her first
by experiences including a journey on the Trans- solo album since 1993, this album features covers of
Siberian railway and a visit to an ancient Italian mon- musical standards from the 30s and 40s. Simply
astery. The result is an album of beauty and mystery produced, with the artistry of John Bucchino’s piano
— a musical gateway to eras long past. Warner accompanying her, Holly’s interpretations of these
Brothers 46719. songs will leave listeners wanting more. Calico Tracks
Surfacing/Sarah McLachlan. Her popularity has Music 9701.
soared with the success of this past summer’s Lilith Pele Juju Live!/Pele Juju. Dubbed the “wild
Fair, and this new album will not disappoint her fans, women of the world beat,” this eight-piece all woman
old and new. Produced by Pierre Marchand (Fumbling ensemble does it all — from original high energy
Towards Ecstasy), Surfacing includes ten extraordinary dance music to soulful ballads and Afro-beat grooves.
new songs, all written by McLachlan. Arista 18970. Note the catchy “All We Got,” complete with a bit of
pop and funky rhythms and the hot, spicy Cajun style
“Happy to Be Alive.” This third album from the group
captures the intensity and magic of their magnetic
stage show. Pele 3.
Between the Worlds/Aine Minogue. With this, Holy Smokes/Suzzy Roche. A single Roche??
her first major label release, Irish harpist and vocalist Yep. “Finally, the solo career she obviously had in
Aine Minogue (pronounced On-ya Mi-Noag) her!” —The Village Voice. Her entrancing stage pres-
explores the emotional journey of leaving her home- ence, actor's delight in performance, hilarious
land to begin a new life in America. Her independent epiphanies and deadpan humor are still intact, but
releases have sold in excess of 100,000 copies and wed with an added intimacy and starkness that
continue to sell steadily, showing a significant takes her music to a whole new level. Fans of The
fan-base. The LA Times says “Aine Minogue proves Roches will definitely want to check out this solo
beyond a reasonable doubt why the harp is indeed the debut from the baby of the family. Redhouse
instrument of the angels.” RCA Victor 68846. Records 104.
Every Dirty Word /Mollies Revenge. Yvette, the AIl Over Me Soundtrack. Basically, this sound-
lead singer and songwriter of this Vancouver-based track serves as the essential guide to women’s
band, is a San Francisco native with a longtime local underground rock music in 1997! Featuring three of
lesbian following. Rhythmic drums, hard-edged elec- Spin magazine's “40 Most Vital Artists in Music
tric and acoustic guitars, and a gorgeous soft melodic Today” — Ani DiFranco, Sleater-Kinney and The
cello combine to create a versatile alternative- Geraldine Fibbers, the album also includes tracks by
pop-rock-whatever sound. “Sexually provocative The Murmurs, Babes in Toyland, Michelle Malone,
music from a dyke perspective; including songs like Drugstore, Cornershop and Remy Zero. TVT 8110.
the voyeuristic ‘I Like to Watch’ and a lesbian coming
out version of The Kinks’ ‘Lola.”” —Female FYI.
Atlantic 82972.
Pristine Smut/The Murmurs. Definitely a hit at
this year’s Michigan Womyn's Music Festival, this Front Porch Music/Linda Tillery and The
pop duo-turned-foursome has been featured on a Cultural Heritage Choir. Celebrate the human spirit
regular basis this summer in the gay and lesbian press. with this uplifting collection of African American folk
Described as the “acoustic voice of the twenty-some- songs! Four years ago, Linda Tillery experienced a
thing generation,” Heather Grody and Leisha Hailey career-changing epiphany, deciding to dedicate
plug in the guitars and add drums and a bass on this herself to research and reconstruction of the folklore,
album. Hailey is also garnering press for her role in religion, language and music associated with her heri-
the lesbian-themed film, A/! Over Me and as k.d. lang’s tage. Thus, The Cultural Heritage Choir was born.
new love. lang also lent her production talents to six This is their second release and their first to be
of the album's tracks. MCA 11637. distributed by a major label. EarthBeat 72881.
79 November /December 1997
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
End of the Summer/Dar Williams. They said special tribute from Phranc, and a portion of the
“it’s not your father’s folk music” and that still holds proceeds goes to benefit the Lambda Legal Defense
true! A well-loved singer/songwriter, Williams’ new Fund — looks like Rhino Records has found the
album includes 13 new songs drenched with maturity, lesbian market! This collection released in mid-Fall
playfulness, wisdom and wit. This ambitious effort features tracks by k.d. lang, Ani DiFranco, Jill Sobule,
explores the world of rock and pop while staying true Jane Siberry, Two Nice Girls, Janis Ian, Sandra Bern-
to her folk base. Highlights include “Party Genera- hard and others. Advertised in the Feminist Bookstore
tion,” the title cut, and “Teenagers, Kick Our Butts.” Network Fall Catalog. Rhino 72915.
Razor & Tie 2830. Maidens of The Celtic Harp. Sugo Music trav-
Change of Heart/ Women’s Chorus of Dallas with eled throughout Ireland, searching for the best female
Holly Near. Recorded live this spring (during their first Celtic harpists on the Emerald Isle. The recording that
concert broadcast simultaneously on the Internet), the emerged from this expedition will transport you back
talents of this exceptional chorus are enhanced with many centuries to the origins of this popular musical
solo performances by Holly Near. WCD 3. form. Aine Ni Dhubhghaill, Anne-Marie O'Farrell,
Emily Cullen and Cliona Ni Dhuill perform tradi-
tional Celtic melodies, serving as a bridge to Ireland’s
ancient past. Sugo 9778.
Natty Queen Divas. A superb representation of
New Compilations the power of women in reggae music! This release
Circle of Women. From the beginning of time, includes the legendary I-Three (the original back up
women have gathered together to express their vocalists for Bob Marley) as well as solo performances
passions through song and chant. Alice DiMicele, pro- from those women. In addition, highlights include a
ducer and contributing artist, along with Shelley brand new riveting performance by the Marley Girls
Phillips, Windsong, Elouise Burrell (of Linda Tillery’s (female vocalists of Ziggy Marley and the Melody
Cultural Heritage Choir) and Freyda Epstein chose Makers), and performances by veteran reggae
and performed the songs on this album to inspire singer/D.J. Sister Carol. Top it off with Jamaica’s
women to learn and share in their own circles of poetress of reggae, Cherry Natural, and this compila-
celebration. Weaving a lush tapestry of voices and tion is a reggae lover's dream. Lightyear 54230.
music, the circle draws from its diverse cultural roots New Wave Women. Part of the Just Can't Get
of Celtic, African American, Jewish, Korean and Enough series, this album features some of the most
Sicilian heritage’s. Definitely a top choice for in-store significant female artists and female-fronted bands of
play. EarthBeat 72879. the 80s. Artists include The Go-Go's, The Bangles,
Free to Be Series — Volume 9 (The Women). The Eurythmics, Pretenders, Laurie Anderson, Joan
other nine albums in this series are all essentially Armatrading, The Divinyls and others. Rhino 72856.
dance albums and eight of those feature naked men Voices of Celtic Women. Part of Shanachie’s Hold-
on the cover (as is the style these days)! So what's up ing Up Half the Sky series (featuring female artists), this
with this release? They pay homage to the women, release showcases new Irish women vocalists. Artists
with tracks that will appeal to lesbians, performed by include Maire Brennan, Delores Keane, Mary Black,
artists both straight and gay. From Catie Curtis’ Karan Casey, Maura O'Connell, Niamh Parsons and
delightfully frank “Radical” to Cheryl Wheeler's Karen Matheson. Shanachie 78011.
moving composition “Moonlight and Roses” and Women of the World — Celtic II. The first
Janis Ian's “At Seventeen,” the album is a showcase album in this series remains Putumayo’s bestselling
for strong women with exceptional talent. And, in album and was the top-selling Celtic compilation in
keeping with their marketing focus, the cover features 1996. This new collection features Karen Matheson
two women (clothed!) in a passionate embrace. The (of Capercaillie), Eileen Ivers, Natalie MacMaster,
Right Stuff 57092. Susan McKeown and the Chanting House along with
Lesbian Favorites — Women Like Us. Liner mPany u othter u lessmer knaowyn buot e qu ally1 t3alen4ted . a rt istsO.
notes by Gretchen Phillips (of Two Nice Girls fame), a
November /December 1997 80
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Compiled by Jenn Tust anal sex. “A sex education classic.” —The Advocate. Dr.
Morin’s extensive research, comprehensive explana-
DOWN THERE PRESS tions and reassuring exercises “cover everything you
Sex radical Carol Queen and artist Jack Davis, might think to ask...and more.” —Isadora Alman,
Good Vibrations’ staff members and co-hosts of the nationally syndicated sex advice columnist. $18 pb,
Erotic Reading Circle, have gathered over 30 tanta- 0-940208-20-2, Spring.
lizing short stories and a sprinkling of verse in Sex The Good Vibrations Guide to Adult Videos by
Spoken Here: Good Vibrations Erotic Reading Cathy Winks and the staff of Good Vibrations. Who’s
Circle Selections. This enticing selection includes a watching adult video? Why watch them? How have
diversity of sexual orientations and explores the they changed since the early years? What are the best
boundaries of traditionally accepted sexuality. Sex feminist, lesbian, gay, alternative videos — and how
Spoken Here will seduce the imagination and expand do you find them? The author also addresses porno-
sexual horizons! $14.50 pb, 0-940208-19-9, Winter. graphy as a feminist issue and why the taboo turns us
Anal Pleasure & Health: A Guide for Men and on. The first in a series of guides that incorporate the
Women, Revised by Jack Morin, Ph.D., is newly expertise of Good Vibrations’ sexually literate staff. $7
revised for the 21st century. With 75,000 copies in pb, 0-940208-22-9, Spring.
print, this is the book that has helped thousands find The Good Vibrations Guide to the G-Spot by
pleasure in learning to communicate their desires for Cathy Winks and the staff of Good Vibrations.
set OP shop.
She's RY licensed }o
proctice feminism
whenever he Occasion rises.
81 November /December 1997
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
User-friendly, specific information about the G-spot along with a lot of action — provide the mix that
garnered from the latest research and responses from makes the book a good read. $11.95 pb, 1-56341-088-
Good Vibes’ customers. How to find it, how to help a 5; $24.95 cl, (institutional binding) -089-3.
partner find it, and how to stimulate it. Why don’t all Read My Lips: Sexual Subversion and the End
women respond? What is that ejaculate? This hand- of Gender by Riki Anne Wilchins. Absolutely essen-
book will help many women find additional pleasure. tial reading. Read My Lips is the first book
$7 pb, 0-940208-23-7, Spring. combining theory (intelligible, articulate, mind-
Down There Press, 938 Howard Street #101, San expanding) and personal experience (sometimes
Francisco CA 94103; 415-974-8985, fax 415-974-8989. funny, often outrageous, always riveting) written by
Available from LPC/WomenSource, BP, Alamo a transperson about gender — hers and everyone
Square, et al. —Down There Press else's. This is one of those books that has pushed me
to rethink many things I didn’t even know I believed.
$16.95 pb, 1-56341-090-7; $28.95 cl, (institutional
binding) -091-5.
FIREBRAND BOOKS Waiting in the Wings: Portrait of a Queer
Evil Dead Center: A Mystery by Carole laFavor. Motherhood by Cherríe Moraga. I was deeply moved
Carole laFavor’s second Native American lesbian by this jewel of a book by celebrated Chicana lesbian
mystery has a harder edge than her first (Along the author Cherríe Moraga. A very personal, honest
Journey River) as it focuses on a pornography ring account of her decision to become pregnant, the pre-
involving Red Earth Reservation children. The same mature birth and near-death of her son, her
insider’s look at contemporary tribal life, splashes of relationships with both her biological and families of
Ojibwa language and customs, and the development choice, and the changes wrought in her creative and
of a lesbian Indian/white (chimook) relationship — personal life by motherhood. Bright, vibrant, poignant.
SPUNKY > SENSITIVE >» INSPIRATIONAL
YS In her third decade at the log cabin she built near
wilderness, Anne and her dogs encounter a perilous
tornado, environmental controversies, joys of guid-
| ing, and challenge of being an older woodswoman.
Anne authored seven trade books and 150 articles.
| She received 1994 Roger Tory Peterson Award for
National Nature Educator; 1993 Gold Medal from
Society of Woman Geographers; 1990 Honorary
Doctor of Letters from Ripon College, WI.. Anne and
ANNE LABASTILL
November /December 1997 82
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Advertised in the Feminist Bookstore Network Fall country is essential to preventing future abuse and
Catalog. $10.95 pb, 1-56341-092-3; $22.95 c|, trauma. $35 cl, 0-9634895-3-4. 40% for 5+. Minerva
(institutional binding) -093-1. Center, Attn: Minerva’s Bookshelf, 20 Granada Road,
Firebrand Books, 141 The Commons, Ithaca NY Pasadena MD 21122; 410-437-5379, fax 914-693-2834,
14850; 607-272-0000. Firebrand’s titles are available email (minervacen@aol.com). Distributed by B&T.
from LPC/InBook and all leading wholesalers. — Minerva’s Bookshelf
—Firebrand Books
KNOWLEDGE, IDEAS & TRENDS
From the Realm of the Ancestors: An Anthol- NAIAD PRESS
ogy in Honor of Marija Gimbutas edited by Joan Letting Go is a sexy, romantic read from Naiad
Marler. Marija Gimbutas’ discovery of a goddess- newcomer Ann O'Leary. At 39, Laura seems to have it
based, matrilineal society challenged all the all — a fantastic home, her own advertising agency,
assumptions about the origins of Western civiliza- and a stunningly beautiful lover. But something is
tion. Here 60 international scholars, poets and artists missing from her life, and lots of women — including
show us her influence in the fields of archaeology, handsome, barhopping Kelly and shy, baby dyke Kate
linguistics, mythology, folklore, art and poetry. Con- — would love to help her find it. $11.95 pb, 1-56280-
tributors include: Miriam Robbins Dexter, Riane 183-X, December.
Eisler, Mary Mackey, Ralph Metzner, Vicki Noble, A brilliant and brutal serial killer is on the loose
Starhawk and many others. 655 pp; photos, illustra- in Jaye Maiman’s brilliant new thriller, Old Black
tions and index. Advertised in the Feminist Magic. With a new love unfolding, P.I. Robin Miller
Bookstore Network Fall Catalog. $45.95 pb, has her own urgent reason to find the murderer —
1-879198-25-8. Knowledge, Ideas & Trends, Inc. before he finds her! Remind your customers to pick
(KIT), 1131-0 Tolland Turnpike #175, Manchester CT up the first five installments in this critically
06040; Web (www.booktrnds.com). Distributed by acclaimed mystery series: I Left My Heart...and Baby,
LPC /InBook and available from B&T, BP, Koen and It’s Cold, et al. $11.95 pb, 1-56280-175-9, December.
others. —Knowledge, Ideas & Trends Your romance readers will be enraptured by
Marianne Martin’s passion-filled debut novel, Legacy
of Love. Tall, toned Sage Bristo has never had a prob-
lem attracting women. Women who wanted to own
MINERVA’'S BOOKSHELF her, to spoil her, to please her. Women who would do
As the extent of abuse of military women is anything for her. But never the woman she needed —
finally coming to public attention, Dr. Donna M. the one who could lead her through the realm of
Dean's anguished voice in Warriors Without Weap- desire, to the thing she desires most.... $11.95 pb,
ons: The Victimization of Military Women reflects 1-56280-184-8, December.
agony and rage as well as provides an intellectual Frankie J. Jones’ debut novel, Rhythm of the
analysis of this abuse. Her book is a wounded healer’s Tide, is a poignant love story about two women who
gift to traumatized women veterans, to their thera- had given up all hope of happiness. Despondent after
pists, to the friends and families who love them, and years of abuse, Clara Webster decides to enditalland
to the American public whose understanding of the swims out into the deep waters of the Texas Gulf.
horrors many women have faced while serving their Totally exhausted, she surrenders to the relentless pull
83 November / December 1997
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Naiad Press, Inc., PO Box 10543, Tallahassee FL 32302;
Exploding with music 800-533-1973.
by Seattle bands.
Amazing World follows NAIAD VIDEO
queer tabloid reporters Bound is now available at only $14.95. Order a
eB Uni Fn c Oog u n aa btn e dd r u c N tp eyi ec r so o m —as a n ait a nh c de sy , olo ft ho of u s t eh he om ld, s . they'll be hot Christmas gifts in a number
mutual lust. When Set It Off is in the school of hell-raising women,
Baskir, a mysterious stars Queen Latifah as a lesbian and is only $19.95.
psychic back from the Girlstown is a buddy movie...for girls. Not
grave, leads them to the explicit, but the lesbian audience loves it. Only $19.95.
b mo ud rie ds e r o edf wse ov mer ea nl , our $19.95 .H e Ir tc ’su le as m & y sX tee rn ya , T bh ue t A itn i m wa ilt le d s e lM l o av nie d. .. o sn ell ly and sell.
F Deu lil c i oF usl i c uk i rn omg SÄp iai ti sSn h uat er r s e r pcp ii n a ed g s n t g sw ii er cil ft ,s h u s lsat e e p k x — i yli ln e ,t r o . smart, Lucy AMLa paw an rl e t s mos f’ e n v t tho i ec Z e e Y r e ois a r i,p s a fr ait nl m o e f rf o o tt r ih c e m ts heu n rc i.c ll e e$s r1s . 9 . s 9 Nt 5o e.r cy es s ah re yre.
This mis on to ht e y ro ’sur ISBN: 1- So 207-0 $29.95 rental W it ie lm d r Red eu ece dd s , t o s u$2 b9 t.9 i5 t. led and excellent award-
lesbian movie! winning gay male film. Limited sales, but good rentals.
$29.95.
The Naiad Press, Inc. Bookstores that have been around ten years will
P.O. Box 10543 • Tallahassee, FL 32302 remember our publishing Denise Ohio’s first novel,
g ( >8 5 0 1) - 5 83 09 0-5 -9 56 35 3 • - 1 F 9a 7x 3 (850) 539-9731 The Finer Grain. We are now delighted to have the
exclusive video rights to Denise Ohio’s first lesbian
film. Along with Holy Toledo Pictures we present
of the tide — only to feel strong, rescuing arms wrap Amazing World, written, produced and directed by
around her... $11.95 pb, 1-56280-189-9, January. Denise Ohio. Exploding with music by Seattle bands,
The second Tru North mystery, Penn Valley Amazing World follows queer tabloid reporters Bing
Phoenix follows closely on the success of The K.C. and Nico as they encounter pyromaniacs, brides of
Bomber. A wealthy restaurateur has been murdered, Satan, UFO abductees — and mutual lust. When
and Kansas City Homicide Detective Tru North has Baskir, a mysterious psychic back from the grave,
the killer in custody. Or does she? Despite a by-the- leads them to the bodies of several murdered women,
book investigation, this open-and-shut case is about our intrepid girls step into the ring with a killer.
to swing wide open — trapping Tru in a deadly game Sarcastic, sexy, smart, suspenseful — this is not your
of hide-and-seek. Author Janet McClellan is the Chief mother’s lesbian movie! Among other attributes, it
of Police in a small Midwestern town. $11.95 pb, has a nice dollop of well done sex. Nicole Conn, bless
1-56280-200-3, January. her heart, says, “Fun! Frolicking! Delicious dialogue!
By Reservation Only, from #1 bestselling author A romp!” 91 minutes, $29.95, 1-56280-207-0.
Jackie Calhoun, is a richly emotional tale of real women V.disc. Order direct from Naiad. The Naiad
caught up in all the pain and passion of contemporary Press, Inc., PO Box 10543, Tallahassee FL 32302;
lesbian life. When Shelley inherits Pine Shores Resort 800-533-1973. —Naiad Press
in rural Wisconsin, she sees it as a gift of personal VZ
freedom. Unfortunately, Shelley’s lover has other
ideas... Jackie Calhoun’s works include Seasons of the
Heart and Sticks and Stones, which is also available on PRISM COLLECTIVE
audiocassette. $11.95 pb, 1-56280-191-0, January. The Prism Collective is a group of feminist edu-
Naiad books are available from the publisher and cators and writers [Jeanne Brinkman Grinnan, Mary
distributed by BP, LPC/InBook, Ingram, et al. The Rose McCarthy, Barbara S. Mitrano, and Rosalie
November /December 1997 84
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Muschal-Reinhardt] who work together to develop who they say they are, her mission far more perilous
resources that make feminist scholarship more acces- than she ever dreamed. $11.99 pb, 1-883061-16-4.
sible for young women. Coming Attractions by Bobbi Marolt. After three
Journey to a Place Among Faith-Filled Women: years of mourning her lover Chelsea’s death, Helen
A Journal is a comb-bound, workbook /journal with Townsend, a successful reporter for one of New York’s
writing exercises and suggestions for young women top newspapers, reluctantly admits she’s tired of
to use on their journey to discovering their Self, being lonely...and of being closeted. Princess Charm-
especially the spiritual Self. It’s the first in what will ing comes along in the form of pianist Cory
be a series of workbook/journals. This one gives Chamberlain, and Helen embraces joy once again.
users a place to have dialogues with figures in More than a moving love story, Coming Attractions
Judeo-Christian scriptures. ($9.95 comb-bound, is also about how passion and a search for integrity
1-890662-05-4.) Journey to the Divine Within, the fuels our lives. A delicious blend of love and laughter,
second workbook/journal, offers women an oppor- passion and politics. $11.99 pb, 1-883061-17-2.
tunity to reflect on their lives and experiences by If you would like to place the first chapter of any
imagining themselves on a journey to the divine of these new books on your Web site, we'll email them
within them. This one focuses on dialogues with to you. For a copy of our electronic catalogue, email
Goddess figures from different cultures. ($9.95 us at (RTPress@aol.com). Customer Service: 516-427-
comb-bound, 1-890662-06-2.) 0195. Order direct and save with our new discount policy:
Sisters of the Thirteen Moons: Rituals Cele- 50% on ten+ assorted titles, front and backlist, net 30,
brating Women’s Lives provides 13 moon-based nonreturnable, order judiciously. 800-648-5333, fax 516-
celebrations that imbue women’s lives and their 423-6642. Orders shipped in 24 hours. Also available
everyday experiences with a sense of their sacred in the U.S. from Alamo Square, B&T, Koen, Bookazine,
meaning. Shared with groups or read as individual BP, and Ingram; in Canada from Marginal; in the U.K.
meditations, these rituals provide time of tears, and Western Europe from Turnaround; and in Austra-
laughter and profound understanding. $14.95 pb, lia and New Zealand from Banyan Tree.
1-890662-03-8.
The Prism Collective, PO Box 1042, Webster NY
1450; 716-872-6657 or 716-265-3006, fax 716-265-1328.
Distributed by New Leaf. — Prism Collective
ONLYWOMEN
RISING TIDE On the whole, we're horrified by U.S. booktrade
In Cloud Nine Affair by Katherine Kreuter, the returns but, nonetheless, very pleased to be publish-
author of Fool Me Once, Christine Grandy — rebel- ing new lesbian feminist fiction and non-fiction this
lious, wealthy, twenty-something — has disappeared year. We're looking for a free-lance U.S. publicist and
into the depths of India, along with her hippie lover a new North American distributor but until 1998,
Monica Ward. Desperate to bring her home, Onlywomen titles will continue to be available via the
Christine’s millionaire father hires expert finder-of- LPC Group or, of course, from us direct.
missing-persons, Paige Taylor. But the trail to Rebellion by Jay Taverner. Lesbian historical
Christine is mined with obstacles, as powerful ene- romance. Hope, a gamekeeper’s daughter, and the
mies plot to eliminate her. Eventually, high in the Lady Isabella are girls of 16 as England’s feudal world
Himalayas, Paige realizes her companions are not of aristocrats and peasants is forced to change. It’s
85 November / December 1997
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
heterosexuality, in patterns becoming all too recognis-
able, but also questions lesbian identity. Research
no-one can afford to miss. $17.99 pb, 0-906500-53-2,
December.
Onlywomen Press, Ltd., 40 St. Lawrence Terrace,
London W10 5ST; +0181-960-7122. Distributed in the
U.S. by LPC. —Onlywomen Press, Ltd.
SARAH ALDRIDGE
DOES IT AGAIN! SISTER VISION: BLACK WOMEN AND
WOMEN OF COLOUR PRESS
Best-selling writer, Sarah Aldridge hits us with her China Dog and Other Tales from a Chinese
best shot, Nina /n The Wilderness, now available in Laundry is Judy Fong Bates’ first collection of short
hard cover and soft cover. stories. This beautifully designed and produced
Ni nIaS iBn N th: e 0W-il9de6rn4e6ss6 (4H8ar-d4 c-o4ve r )eee $18.00 book is set in small town Ontario and Fong Bates
brings to light a dazzling assortment of characters in
Nina in the Wilderness (Soft cover) these vivid, richly textured stories. The characters
Am IS aB nN: t.0 h-9 a646648-3-6 ....ss:sessteeteesetazeantnenene $11.95 are Chinese immigrants living in Canada, from the
ISBN: 0-9646648-0-1 .....sstsinseeseesseesisnaneas $10.95 turn of the century to the present day. Some are
Magdalena trying to adjust to life in a strange new land; others
ISBN: 0-9646648-1-X eieae cieseeeeaeenercaer $9.95 are trying to live “Canada” (or anywhere white)
Mi s If So Brt Nun ::e 0’s - 9 F 6r 4ie 6n 6d 48-2-8. -srne ereina $8.95 l ti rv ae ds i t iw onh ail le fa ac mco im liem s. o d Aa lt li n lg e a rt nh e t hw ai ts h se os m o ef o t fh e ti hr e m to rr ue ths
Mi cO hth aer e l g ar e at A b lo lo k s T b ry u eSa r a Lh o A vld er rid sge: they've built their lives around are illusions that can
A Flight of Angels Cytherea'’s Breath shatter as easily as a china dog. Some of the stories
Keep To Me Stranger Tottie included in this collection are: A homesick teen-aged
Madame Aurora The Latecomer girl from Hong Kong who is cheered by the friendly
The Nesting Place attention of her godfather — but discovers there is
more to his kindness than meets the eye. The arrival
A&M Books of a pretty mail-order bride from China, which
P.O. Box 2 P8 h3, o n R e:e h 1o -b 8o 0t 0h - 4 8B 9e -a 7c 6h 6, 2 DE 19971 c elr de ea rt le ys t we on msio ann sb ue rt pw re ie sn es t hw eo r b cr ho it ldh re er ns. bA y l mon ae kly ing a
new life for herself. “These tales are wonderful,
1715, a year marked out for political violence on a original, and heartbreaking.” —JT/FBN. $12.95 pb,
grand scale, the first of the Jacobite uprisings. Our 1-896705-30-8.
teenagers share a perilous, adventurous, and certainly The Moons of Palmares by Zainab Amahady is a
passionate, coming of age. (Jay Taverner is the fiction fast-paced feminist adventure novel set in the distant
writing persona of a lesbian partnership.) $10.99 pb, future on a faraway world, but it’s a world that will
0-906500-58-3. seem strangely familiar to readers interested in post-
Leaving the Life: Lesbians, Ex-Lesbians and the colonial and Third World issues. Zaria Aquene —
Heterosexual Imperative by Ann E. Menasche. Why dancer, secret Kituhwan operative and lover of the
would any lesbian go straight now, so long after leader of the resistance movement — has a lot on her
Stonewall? Analysing interviews with married lesbi- mind. The new Major's infatuation with her is strategi-
ans, ex-lesbians, bisexuals and life-long never-het cally useful — but what if he finds out she’s a double
dykes, Menasche exposes the cruel underside of agent? If she must, will she have the nerve to kill for her
heterosexual culture. This well-documented feminist planet's survival? What if the person she must kill has
theory not only shows there’s nothing natural about become her friend? $14.95 pb, 1-896705-22-7, February.
November /December 1997 86
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Má-Ka: Diasporic Juks: Contemporary Writing Ph. D., and Michael Durphy, M.D., provides tech-
by Queers of African Descent edited by Debbie niques and suggestions to help men in the
Douglas, Courtney McFarlane, Makeda Silvera, and continuation of their journey of living without
Douglas Stewart. Deliciously political and radically violence. The authors write of the new chapter: “The
erotic, this is a colourful and outrageous anthology of purpose of this new chapter is to suggest ways for
work by writers who live with many shifting identi- you to continue to make positive changes in your
ties — social, cultural and sexual. Personal and behavior, to assess which areas need further atten-
political writing, and many pieces that bring the two tion, and to discuss areas where you might do some
together, in a variety of forms — essays, fiction, ‘advance training’ in violence prevention, and espe-
poetry. Though it doesn’t duck the heavier issues cially in anger management.” 200,000 copies in print.
facing the queer community, Má-Ka is basically an ($15.95 pb, 1-884244-16-5.) Now also available in
upbeat, entertaining read. A wide range of contribu- Spanish: Aprender a Vivir Sin Violencia: Manual
tors — aged twenty-something to fifty—something Para Hombres translated by Jorge Corsi, Ph.D.
and hailing from the United States, Canada, Britain, ($14.95 pb, 1-884244-07-6.)
Europe, the Caribbean and Africa — means subject
matter ranges from the offbeat to the familiar. $14.95 Small Press Distributors
pb, 1-896705-14-6.
Sister Vision: Black Women and Women of
Colour Press, PO Box 217, Station E, Toronto ONT, Alamo Square Distributors
Canada M6H 4E2; 416-533-9353, fax 416-533-9676, PO Box 14543, San Francisco CA 94114
email (sisvis@web.net). Sister Vision books are distrib- 415-863-7410, fax 415-863-7456
uted by LPC/InBook in the U.S. and by General in
Canada. —Sister Vision: Black Women and Bookpeople (BP)
Women of Colour Press 7900 Edgewater Drive, Oakland CA 94621
800-999-4650, fax 510-632-1281
Consortium
VOLCANO PRESS 1045 Westgate Drive, St. Paul MN 55114
To Tell the Truth by Brian Ogawa is a full-color 800-283-3572, fax 612-221-0124
illustrated book for children eight years and older to
help explain the criminal justice system and guide Koen/Inland (Koen)
young people through testifying in the criminal justice 10 Twosome Drive, Moorestown NJ 08057
system. This is an informative introduction to police, 800-257-8481, fax 609-727-6914
prosecution and court proceedings, and is applicable
in all states. It also addresses children’s advocacy cen- LPC Group (InBook/Login Trade/Womensource)
ters as places where people assist child victims and 1436 West Randolph Street, Chicago IL 60607
witnesses. An excellent glossary gives definitions of 800-243-0138, fax 800-334-3892
terms used in the book. $9.95 pb, 1-884244-15-7,
December. Publishers Group West (PGW)
The 1997 update of Learning to Live Without Box 8843, Emeryville CA 94662
Violence: A Handbook for Men, by Daniel Sonkin, 800-788-3123, fax 510-658-1834
87 November /December 1997
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Volcano Press, PO Box 270, Volcano CA 95689; Beautifully shot and impeccably acted. Subtitled.
800-879-9636 or 209-296-4991, fax 209-296-4995, email $39.95.
(sales@volcanopress.com), Web (http://www.volcano The Ultimate Xena Gift: The Xena Fan Club Kit:
press.com). Distributed by B&T and available from BP. Incredible Value at $29.95. This fantastic gift collection
— Volcano Press is only available through Wolfe Video! A gorgeous
WOLFE VIDEO p anu r p el xe p lg osif ivt e b ao rx r a yem fb ola rz o tn he ed tw ri ut eh fX anen : a ’ As l vo ig do e o i n tc al pu ed e cs on-
Everything Relative Contest and Video Release: sisting of 35 hilarious Xena blooper outtakes with a
Everything Relative is the story of a group of college personal introduction from Lucy Lawless; four color
friends who are reunited after 20 years, and it revolves 8" x 10" lithographs: Xena wielding her sword, Xena
around the rekindling of their relationships during a and her Chakram, Xena and Gabrielle together with
weekend in the country. A lesbian Big Chill if you will. their horse, Gabrielle alone; Xena poster (16" x 20");
We are pulling out all the stops for this premier release, The Xena newsletter “Chakram;” Official Fan Club
including retailer rebates and a consumer sweepstakes. Certificate of Membership and Membership Card;
Consumers will respond to ads placed in magazines and an exclusive color 8" x 10" photograph of Xena
and take the entry form to their local store. The win- and Gabrielle in the hot tub scene.
ning consumer will receive an all-expense-paid
weekend get-away with five of their closest friends.
The retail store who submits the winning entry will be
refunded the cost of the units purchased of Everything Price Reductions
Relative for one store location. In addition, retail stores Bound. The best romantic thriller of the year is
that send the entry form to us, along with a copy of being price reduced just in time for the holidays! Gina
their invoice or proof of purchase, will receive a one- Gershon and Jennifer Tilly fall in love and go up
time rebate on each unit purchased. Watch for against the mob for the risk of their lives! Place your
advertising or call us at 800-642-5247 for details. order now to stock your shelves! SRP $14.95.
New Releases this g S re it p p I it n g O f stf o. r yQ u e ae bn o u tL a t fi of ua rh wpl oa mys e n a w s hau oc y t a kle es b tia hn e in
Le Jupon Rouge (The Red Dress). A provocative law into their own hands and try to get some pay-back
French tale of love and passion in its many forms. by robbing the city’s biggest banks. SRP $19.95.
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Wolfe Video, PO Box 64, New Almaden CA 95042; who devoted a lot of time to Kuumba before her tragic
408-268-6782, fax 408-268-9449, Web: (www death. According to Mark Allen Haile, the editor,
.wolfevideo.com). — Wolfe Video Kuumba “represents a pool where we can see our-
selves mirrored. Every poem is a resting place, a time
WOMAN IN THE MOON for reflection, the starting place for a journey.” The
People Who Do Not Exist by Abby Bogomolny is poems bring up all the feelings, images, and memo-
an exquisite collection of well-formed, well-crafted, ries that most poems do and more — love, lust, sex,
thoughtful images and touching poetry. “As a Jew and a desire, passion, AIDS, celebration of Blackness, heart-
lesbian — in other words, a person who does not exist — break, interracial love, sickness, politics, being
I found much to relate to in Abby Bogomolny’s newest followed by police, Africa, friends, dancing, grinding,
collection. In particular, reading her poems about her hope, home cooking, God, sodomy laws, harrass-
Brooklyn Jewish childhood was like coming home to a ment, working for white folks, confusion, waiting...
place I have been away from for a long, long time. This is a very valuable journal. $4.50 each, Summer
Bogomolny preserves the vital language and lifestyle, 1997/Issue 3. 8⁄2" by 11", saddle-stitched. BLK
the Yiddishkeit, of her parents and grandparents, with wit Publishing Company, Box 83912, Los Angeles CA
and heart.” — Lesléa Newman. Abby Bogomolny is one 90083; 310-410-0808, fax 310-410-9250. —jT O
of the founders of Burning Bush Press. $13.95 pb,
0-93417-45-5. Woman In The Moon, PO Box 2087, l I l l I l l l l l I l l I d
Cupertino CA 95015; 408-279-6626 (27WOMAN,), fax
408-279-6636, email (sb02701@mercury.fhda.edu). Avail-
able from BP, Alamo Square. — Woman In The Moon
e
Comix and Periodicals
In issue #2 of Invasion of the Space Amazons
From the Purple Planet by Wendy Griswold and Dale
Martin, Shallod, a member of the Fist of Gi'Tal and PRESS
P tola n ee nt dar y li f G e u oar nd ia en ar t( ha n d as f wri ee n kd n oo wf S it's a n an), d h Sa 's s a ns ,w o Ar ln ien P x
Sociologist (and friend of Shallod) must risk her own is worldwide <- from bureaus in Africa, Europe, the
life to stop her! Also includes “Dimar/’s Story,” a tale Caribbean, Middle and South America < authentic
set in the era before the Fist of Gi'tal eradicated men reports - amazing analyses a other perspectives
from the purple planet, and my favorite, “Radical the f inem tin ouis ct h m wa ig ta hz i n te h e f o wr o rw ldomen
F ine tm erin iois rt s f wo ir t h H i tr we o.” - c o3 l2 o- rp a g coe v es rt .a n 4d 0a %rd f s oi rz e 5 +co . m Aic v; a i lb a/ bw le n S i e e A R E B nglish < a n pr din t e Sd p in a n t iw so h lTanguag es: 3
b Ly a w m ra eil n cfr eo m K SG r i 6zM 6a 0r 4t 4 ;P r o 7d 8u 5ct -i 8on 4s 3, - 3PO 6 5 9Bo ,x e4 m42 a61 il2, Į I wish to rlec ei vei ÔA e phres I I
(grizm Ta hr et @ j tu hn iro. dc o m iss). ue of Kuumba: A Poetry Journal for lI L (Et nh ce l o sen de w s ar e L 7O L UA Ss $! ) F T O re- imi ni. dnaad i l&i: Td s ca aafg rdait n f o&@w o wT.neots bago l
Black People in the Life is dedicated to Terri L. Jewell
89 November /December 1997
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Phases of Sea to
the Moon Shining Sea
Julia Watts Lisa Shapiro
Growing up dirt poor in a Agent June Gavin, large and
Kentucky coal mining camp in solid in her faded sweats,
the 1940's has made Glenda leaned over the bed. “I’ll be in
Mooney hungry for everything the front room if you need me,”
that life has to offer. She she said softly.
discovers early on the two Amelia reached for her
vital forces that will sustain protector, but June caught her
her throughout her life: music hand. “You'll be furious if I let
— in the sweet harmonies of this happen, Amelia.”
gospel and bluegrass — and love — in the arms of a “I know. And l'll be furious if you make me stop. You
preacher's daughter. This ill-fated romance and the can't win, Agent Gavin. So you'd better find a way to
resultant broken heart increases Glenda’s devotion to deal with the situation.”
music, and, armed with just raw talent and wide-eyed An F.B.I. agent unable to escape the pain of the past.
wonder, the young singer sets out to conquer the A crime victim with no hope for the future . . . Two
world. strong women thrown together by fate soon find
Deeply moving and joyously romantic, Phases of the themselves locked in a war of wills. Unwilling to trust,
Moon chronicles the extraordinary life of an unforget- yet unable to leave, each one struggles to resist the
table woman. raging passion that threatens the very core of their
ISBN: 1-56280-176-7 $11.95 carefully controlled lives.
ISBN 1-56280-177-5 $11.95
When the
Third Degree
A Cassidy James Mystery Dancing Stops
Kate Calloway A Brett Higgins Mystery
Private Investigator Cassidy Therese Szymanski
James suspected that the In a daring departure from
women of Cedar Hills were the standard lesbian mystery,
being systematically terror- this exciting new author brings
ized, but until she posted you a brilliant crime novel of
flyers, no one knew to what love, deception, and revenge.
extent. Now the truth is out, A novel that will take you deep
but with none of the victims into the dark side of desire and
willing to help her, how will she engulf you in wave after wave
be able to stop this fiend — before he stops her? of raw eroticism and heartpounding suspense.
As if her life weren't complicated enough, Cassidy's Sometimes, there is a fine line between right and
devastatingly beautiful and notoriously unfaithful ex, wrong, between good and evil. As lieutenant to the
Erica Trinidad, has decided that the quickest way to owner of a chain of adult bookstores and “entertain-
the investigator's heart is through her bed. How can ment centers,” Brett Higgins walks that fine line. People
Cassidy convince her new girlfriend that she no longer often mistook the tall, broadshouldered woman for a
wants Erica — when she can't Iq Su Bi Nte 1c -o 5n 6v 28in 0c -e 1 8 5h -e 6r s e $l 1f 1? .95 m stan a, r tb u t w S hto arm t n Bev re er t tdi d . w S ah se’ ,d k an now dn sr high et f lir kom e d t h e it. The problem was,
so many others did too ...
ISBN 1-56280-186-4 $11.95
November /December 1997 90
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFROM TH,
By Lisa McGowan and Jenn Tust Disappeared in Argentina. These women, their chil-
dren abducted, tortured and killed by the military
If you haven't already noticed, the Carry It On government, refused to be silenced. Instead, they or-
1998 Peace Calendar from the Syracuse Cultural ganized and turned their anguish and suffering into
Workers contains a February editorial by publisher demonstrations that caught the imagination of the
Dik Cool: “Support Small Presses and Stores: The small world. The international movement the Mothers built
press renaissance, Which began in the early 70s as an brought pressure on the Argentine authorities and was
outgrowth of cultural and political activism, is facing instrumental in forcing an end to state terrorism.
an urgent crisis. The ‘superstore’ onslaught threatens “These are the stories of [the Mothers’] daily lives: the
small presses such as Kitchen Table and the Syracuse waiting and the hopelessness, the photographs in the
Cultural Workers, as well as feminist, lesbian/gay, house and in the Plaza, and the perpetual circle around
and independent bookstores. You can make a difference the Plaza of those who have nothing to lose and nothing
by prioritizing support of those values-driven stores to gain, but who keep going around because they believe
which are part of our communities. I know it’s not injustice.” —from the foreword. $14.95 pb, 1-880684-38-1.
always as convenient and frequently not as cheap, but Curbstone Press, 321 Jackson St., Willimantic CT 06226;
it’s the only way to assure the survival of creative, 860-423-5110. Distributed by Consortium.
revolutionary, essential small press publishing and
retailing. It’s your decision.” The February art is titled If It Weren't for the Honor — I'd Rather Have
“Homage to Kitchen Table Press.” “We also have a Walked: Previously Untold Tales of the Journey to
blurb in our 97—98 catalog which isn’t back from the the ADA by Jan Little. The history of the Americans
printers yet. I'd like to urge all fem/pro
publishers to start doing something simi-
lar,” writes Dik Cool to FBN. The calendar
also lists “October 14, 1976 — Carol Seajay
publishes Feminist Bookstore News; ground-
breaking trade mag for feminist bookstores
and publishers.” $12.95, 0-935155-22-8.
Syracuse Cultural Workers, Tools for
Change, PO Box 6367, Syracuse NY 13217;
315-474-1132. Also available from BP, Koen,
New Leaf, Small Changes and Don Olson.
Circle of Love Over Death: Test-
imonies of the Mothers of the Plaza de
Mayo by Matilde Mellibovsky is a collec-
tion of intense and deeply moving first-
person narratives by the Mothers of the
Volume 20 Number 4 91 November /December 1997
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
with Disabilities Act is a long one, textured with the
lives and experiences of many. Little, who became a
paraplegic as a child, traces the development of the
ADA through the efforts, joys and agonies of some of
the individuals who made this progress possible. An
inspiring, personal account by one who lived through
it. Advertised in the Feminist Bookstore Network Fall
Daughters of the Moon Catalog. $15.95 pb, 1-57129-026-5, Brookline Books.
Sisters of the Sun Distributed by Consortium, also available from B&T
and Ingram.
Young New to North America: Writing by U.S. Immi-
Women grants, Their Children, and Grandchildren, edited
& Mentors by Abby Bogomolny, is Burning Bush Publications’
on the first book. Although not focused on writing by
women (70% of the contributors are women), the
Transition to book is very feminist in its messages and content.
Womanhood Unlike many immigrant readers, it strongly repre-
sents the experiences of people of color as well as
K. Wind Hughes people who arrived on the West Coast of this land,
& Linda Wolf rather than taking the European or Euro-American
experience as the norm. Contributors’ place-of-origin
T: abboouotk t hies r La ibn eg re is a , f fr ro om m A If ng dh iaa n ais nt da n I st ro a e lP e tr ou , I rf er lao nm d , V Jie ot rn da am n at no d
lives of teenage girls — and the profound journey Jamaica. Contributors also include a number of
they have taken with their mentors. It’s an lesbian and gay writers, but only two write specifi-
invitation for women to heal from their own cally about the gay immigrant experience. Some of the
teenage years and for girls to find themselves stories might work well in ESL and literacy classes.
— and perhaps for each to find the other $19.95 pb, 0-9650665-9-2, December. 40%. Direct order
between the covers of this boldly honest and only, so far. Burning Bush Publications, PO Box 7361,
compelling book. S (an at ba bCr yuz @ C cA r 9 u506 z1 i; o 40 .8 c-4 o2 m6-91 )7 .2 , e —mail CS
SESS vR C Nn SNe
Niu C REIE el e S S
depression love courage truth
Celebrating the Lives of Jewish Women:
> indigo girls B riane eisler Patterns in a Feminist Sampler edited by Rachel
? maya angelou » starhawk Josefowitz Siegel and Ellen Cole. In this collection,
? lindsay wagner ? angela davis Jewish women of all ages and backgrounds explore
3» wilma mankiller ? carol gilligan and rejoice in their common heritage. Their striking
personal stories reveal how their Jewishness has
$19.95 paperback ©I S B8 N X: 90 -©8 6 25470 1 p-p3 7 •7 -745 photos s eh na cp ese .d S t uh re vi ir v o i rd se , n t wit itie ns e s sa en sd , din ef fo er nm dee rd s , t h ine nir o v ae tx op re sri-
Available in o! bookstores and healers, these women question, celebrate and
transmit Jewish and feminist values in hope of bridg-
or call New Society Publishers 800-567-6772 ing the differences among Jewish women. Advertised
in the Feminist Bookstore Network Fall Catalog.
Volume 20 Number 4
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms$19.95 pb, 1-56023-913-1. 42% for 5—. Harrington of Politics and Love by Benedita da Silva (as told to
Park/Haworth Press, Inc., 10 Alice St., Binghamton Medea Benjamin and Maisa Mendonça) is the inspir-
NY 13904; 800-429-6784. Also available from BP, Koen ing story of this remarkable and driven woman.
and Ingram. $15.95 pb, 0-935028-70-6. Food First Books, 309 60th
St., Oakland CA 94618; 510-654-4400. Distributed by
'In 1958 Adhe Tapontsang was 26 years old and the Subterranean Distribution Co., Box 160, 265 S. Fifth
single mother of two small children when she was St., Monroe OR 97456; 800-274-7826. Also available
arrested by soldiers of Communist China, and accused from BP.
of leading the Tibetan women’s resistance. She was
imprisoned for 27 years, tortured, beaten and brutal-
ized. Ama Adhe: The Voice That Remembers is the
story of this woman who sustained her human dignity,
integrity and compassion in the face of immense deg- Sharon Harley and Rosalyn Terborg-Penn were
radation and suffering. This is one of those “as told to” graduate students at Howard University in the 70s
memoirs — in this case, as told to Joy Blakeslee. when they compiled the essays that make up the book,
Blakeslee includes a glossary of Tibetan and Chinese The Afro-American Woman: Struggles and Images.
names, places and terms, as well as a summary of the Finding a publisher that believed there was an audi-
main historical events in eastern Tibet during Tapont- ence for a book by Black academics which analyzed
sang’s lifetime to provide the reader with the historical Black women’s experiences from an historical and
context for the story. Blakeslee leaves the telling of the Black nationalist perspective twenty years ago was a
story to Tapontsang, and her clear, straightforward formidable task, but one that was appreciated by edu-
account of her determination to maintain her culture, cators, civil rights activists, writers, artists and others
religion and inner freedom in the face of such brutality who had long awaited such a history. The Afro-
is both compelling and inspiring. $19.95 cl, 0-86-171- American Woman, out of print since the 80s, has been
1300. Wisdom Publications, 361 Newbury St., Boston reprinted by Black Classic Press. “As we approach the
MA 02115; 617-536-3358. Distributed by National Book end of the 20th century, one thing appears to be clear.
Network; 800-462-6420. Racism, though never absent, has reared its ugly head
in much the way it did this time 100 years ago as
Benedita da Silva grew up in the favelas (slums) of Americans looked to the close of the 19th century. We
Rio in a family of thirteen siblings. She led a life of cannot ignore racism in its new guise worldwide. As
excruciating poverty; watched two of her four chil- the ‘new world order,’ so designated by the leaders of
dren die from curable diseases, barely survived a back the western nations, it breeds ideologies for scape-
alley abortion, and was exploited and humiliated as a goating which find women of color particularly
live-in maid. Far from beating her down, these expe- vulnerable. Consequently, reprinting this collection, as
riences turned da Silva into a fighter: she organized we created more than twenty years ago, is timely.”
her neighbors to get water, sewers and electricity; she —Rosalyn Terborg-Penn and Sharon Harley, editors,
learned to read and write, and then taught other on the reprinting of their book. $10.95 pb, 1-57478-026-3.
women; and in 1982, she ran for political office as a Black Classic Press, PO Box 13414, Baltimore MD
Workers Party Candidate, becoming the nation’s first 21203; 410-358-0980. Distributed by PGW.
Black city council woman. Da Silva then went on to
become the first Afro-Brazilian woman Senator. A Really Good Brown Girl by Marilyn Dumont.
Benedita da Silva: An Afro-Brazilian Woman’s Story “In a world where cultural fascism is becoming the
93 November /December 1997
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Trade Paperback • I S AB gN e: s 1 1- 15 5 8 an85 d- 2 u1 p0-7 • $7.95 i Pn rt er so s,d u 1c 3ti 5o 5n . C a$ l1 i4 f. o9 r5 n iap b , S t r0 e- e9 t3 1 5 #5 22 ,- 0 9 S- a5 n. FT ra au nr ce ia sn c o H Co Arn
94109. Available from SPD, BP and Koen.
Based on a tragic history and presenting a hope-
While Broad Coppeliin, ful vision for the future, Last Standing Woman by
by Jo Ann Yolanda Hernández Winona LaDuke is a powerful and poignant first
novel tracing the lives of seven generations of Anishi-
THE PICTURESQUE CITY of San Antonio, Texas with naabe (Ojibwe/Chippewa). Beginning in the 1860s,
its rich heritage of Mexican-American culture provides the story chronicles a Native American Indian Reser-
t mCh o ae m k ipi nd e ge t a i tl t i o ob n ra t.c i k llWd asr o ,o v p e t n a lf e o t sr o g s et uth ch he e r l a i sn w k i “e t Kd h n es t at h do e ir n i e gvs i v Ai in d tt itW m ueh dt ei at ”pe h aoB nrr d e a od f v cuat ltio un re . a n Bd a t ti lt is n gp e ao lp cl oe h’s o l is st mru , g g sele x u at lo ar be us st eo r e a n dth e fi ir ght-
“Mixing Ingredients” explore deep and consequential ing to regain their land, the characters are living
themes in this charming and hopeful collection. heroes breathing with hope and vision. “This book
goes out into the world much as a prayer. Reading it,
“ ... a fine story of family, love and tradition.” I am blessed by the writer’s use of language and
— BILLIE LETTS, author of Where the Heart Is strengthened by her courageous vision.” —Louise
Erdrich. “I’ve looked forward to a novel from Winona
celeb r“ a.. t. e sa td he el i g sh pt irf iu tl ob fu f cf oe mt mof u n ic tr yo s s a- ng de n e fr aa mti io lyn .a ”l characters which LaDuke for a long, long time. A must carry!” —JT.
—Helena María Viramontes, author of Under the Feet of $22.95 c], 0-89658-278-7. 46% for 10+. Voyager Press,
Jesus and The Moths and Other Stories 123 North Second Street, Stillwater MN 55082; 612-
Piñata Books, A division of Arte Público Press 430-2210, fax 612-430-2211. Also available from B&T,
Phone: (713) 7 4U 3n -i 2v 8e 4r 1s i t •y F o axf : H (7o 1u 3s )t o 7n 4 3 • - 2 H 84o 7u s t • o n T, o l lT X F r e7 e7 :2 0 (4 8- 02 00 )9 0 633-ARTE Ingram and Bookman.
Half Moon Pocosin by Cherry L. F. Johnson is set
political norm, we desperately need courageous in 1930s eastern North Carolina where Cindy’s
voices who shout Stop! Think! Marilyn Dumont is one parents have forced her into giving up her desire to
such voice. She is a Metis poet with attitude and I become a school teacher and pressured her into
applaud her courage and clarity.” —Beth Cuthand. A marrying a man she does not love. “This novel is a
moving and powerful book on the emotional reality gem — a perfect evocation of time and place, with a
of growing up and surviving within a Native culture haunting undertone that casts a spell. You won't be
in a white-dominated society. Advertised in the able to put it down until you've finished, and yow'll
Feminist Bookstore Network Fall Catalog. $12.95 pb, never forget it.” — Lee Smith. $20 cl, 0-89733-438-8.
0-919626-76-9, Brick Books. Distributed by General in 47% for 5+. Academy Chicago Publishers, 363 West
the U.S.; 800-805-1083, fax 416-445-5967. Erie Street, Chicago IL 60610; 800-248-READ. Also
available from Ingram, B&T and The Distributors.
From Spirit to Matter: New and Selected Poems
1969-1996 by Carol Lee Sanchez (Message Bringer
Woman) “offer[s] an oasis for the thirsty soul.” —Carol
J. Adams (The Sexual Politics of Meat). “My mixed race,
multicultural heritage works through my poems over Grandmother’s Gift: Stories from the Anish-
the years as the issues of the times rise and fall within inabeg by Anne M. Dunn gathers 40 short stories,
them, but those issues are generally rooted in my back- myths, and legends from the perspective of an
ground. My own discoveries about myself, my life’s
wonders and tragedies as well as the lives of others also quiet yet forceful way, this book offers memorable
lie in these poems — sometimes deeply embedded — insights on such time-honored subjects as our rela-
sometimes floating on the surface as in mezclada or yo tionship to the earth, social justice, the power of
quiero cantar or the way I was.” —The author in her family tradition and respect for all humankind.
November /December 1997 94
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Illustrations by Annette Humphrey. $12.95 pb, the connection between the appearance standard for
0-930100-72-7. Holy Cow! Press, PO Box 3170, Mount older women and large women, the myth of diets and
Royal Station, Duluth MN 55803; 218-724-1653. dieting, how the body resists weight loss, the national
Distributed by Consortium. “War on Fat” and a lot more. Looks readable and is
suited for a general audience. $17.95 pb, 1-56023-
My Mother Was Right: How Today's Women 908-5; $39.95 cl, 0-7890-0178-0.
Reconcile with Their Mothers by Barbara McFarland Also available from Haworth Press: Children’s
and Virginia Watson-Rouslin. Written in the words of Rights, Therapists’ Responsibilities: Feminist
women from all walks of life, this book offers an Commentaries edited by Gail Anderson, MA and
intimate look at women’s evolving relationships with Marcia Hill Ed.D, Ph.D., which addresses specific
their mothers. These midlife women talk about grow- practice dimensions that will help therapists organize
ing up with two very different views of womanhood and resolve conflicts about working with children,
— Good Housekeeping vs. Ms. magazine — and how, at adolescents and their families in therapy. ($19.95 pb,
long last, they are seeking resolution and more mean- 1-56023-100-9; $34.95 cl, 0-7890-0326-0). And Meno-
ingful relationships with their mothers. $25.00 cl, pause, Me and You: The Sound of Women Pausing
0-7879-0875-4. Jossey Bass Publishers, Inc. Distributed by Ann M. Voda, RN, Ph.D., features women at vari-
by Simon & Schuster, also available from Koen, B&T ous stages of menopause sharing their experiences
and Ingram. ($24.95 pb, 1-56023-922-0; $49.95 cl, -911-5).
Harrington Park/HaworthPress, 10 Alice Street,
In Connections and Reflections: Mothers and Binghamton NY 13904. Available from BP, Koen and
Daughters in Their Own Light, in Their Own Words, Ingram.
Catherine Koemptgen’s simple, striking portraits of
ordinary women spanning every age hint at stories
that beg to be told. Personal mementos and photo-
graphs captured in Connections and Reflections tell
these stories with a rawness and honesty only people The Taking Charge of Menopause Workbook
who deeply know and love one another can afford. by Robert M. Dosh, Ph.D. and Susan N. Fukushima,
Blank pages in the back invite readers to add their own M.D., et al. is an interactive workbook designed to
history and photos. Advertised in the Feminist help women take charge of their own journey through
Bookstore Network Fall Catalog. $22.95 cl, 1-57025- menopause and make the best decisions for their
147-9. 45% for 6+. Pfeifer-Hamilton Publishers, 210 health and well-being. Written by a multidisciplinary
West Michigan, Duluth MN 55802; 800-247-6789 or team of doctors and therapists, it provides the latest
218-727-0500. Also available from Koen, B&T, Ingram medical research, outlines alternative treatments and
and Bookman. offers guidelines for effective interactions with health-
care providers. Advertised in the Feminist Bookstore
Fat — A Fate Worse Than Death? Women, Network Fall Catalog. $17.95 pb, 1-57224-060-1.
Weight, and Appearance by Ruth Raymond Thone Clear Your Past, Change Your Future: Proven
offers hardy resistance to the narrow, random and Techniques for Inner Exploration and Healing by
irrational appearance standards set for American Lynne D. Finney, J.D., M.S.W. Embark on a life-
women through an approach that is personal, eclectic, altering journey of discovery! Pioneering psycho-
courageous and funny. Using statistics, research, therapist Lynne Finney, Reach for the Rainbow,
anecdotes and personal experiences, Thone examines presents a unique collection of powerful techniques
95 November /December 1997
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
“All the pieces celebrate the importance of girlhood... ,
PUBLISHERS WEEKLY
“A big mainstream subject now...powerful and complex.”
BOOKLIST
An Intricate Weave
Women Write About Girls and Girlhood
EDITED BY MARLENE MILLER
Contributors include Julia Alvarez, Lucille Clifton, Ursula Le
Guin, Denise Levertov, Janice Mirikitani, Peggy Orenstein,
Adrienne Rich, Alice Walker, and many other vibrant voices.
Introduction by Kristen Golden, project director of the first
Edited bY IRIS EDITIONS
with an introduction by
Kristen Golden
Tel: 714-497-2101 Fax: 714-497-6096
$15.95, softcover, 384 pp., 0-945372-15-9 SINN
to heal old psychological wounds. “A powerful new The Right Side of Forty: Celebrating Timeless
model for self-healing...this book is a must for any- Women by Patricia Martin. Photographs by Leif
one who wants to get on with a better life.” —Joan Zurmuhlen. The Right Side of Forty is a joyful,
Borysenko, Ph.D., Minding the Body, Mending the upbeat and honest collection of photos and inter-
Mind. Advertised in the Feminist Bookstore views that celebrates women who have come into
Network Fall Catalog. $12.95 pb, 1-57224-088-1. Also their prime. Zurmuhlen’s stunning photos are teamed
available in audio. $18.95, 2 cassettes, 3 hours, with Martin’s sensitive interviews of women, who
1-56455-445-7, Sounds True; 800-333-9185. reveal their insights on aging, femininity, and being a
It's Not Okay Anymore: Your Personal Guide to woman over the age of forty loving life. A lovely gift.
Ending Abuse, Taking Charge, and Loving Yourself Advertised in the Feminist Bookstore Network Fall
by Greg Enns and Jan Black. This practical and inspir- Catalog. $24.95 cl, 1-57324-095-8, Conari Press.
ing guide offers a step-by-step path out of abuse and Distributed by PGW, also available from BP, Koen,
into safety and empowerment. Written with sensitiv- B&T and Ingram.
ity and respect, it contains action steps, survivors’
stories, success tips, “Get Safe” plans and coaching in
self-nurturing and esteem-building. “[This book]
gently, yet firmly, helps victims of domestic violence
climb out of their situation.” —K.C. Eynatten, Mother Nature’s Herbal by Judy Griffin, Ph.D.
Corporate Alliance to End Partner Violence. Adver- Every gardener, herb lover, cook and natural healer
tised in the Feminist Bookstore Network Fall Catalog. will treasure this beautiful compendium of herbal
$13.95 pb, 1-57224-066-0. lore. Each chapter is rich with expert advice for grow-
New Harbinger Publications. Distributed by ing and using herbs; every page blooms with recipes
PGW, also available from BP, Koen, B&T and Ingram. and remedies harvested from the world’s cultures.
November /December 1997 96 Volume 20 Number 4
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsWritten by a master gardener and herbalist who ($8.95 pb, 1-56853-034-X) provides information on
explores organic methods, theme gardens, herbal how to adopt healthy eating habits, manage physical
medicine, essential oils, and more. B&W illustrations, and emotional stress and be sexually healthy, from
8-page color insert. Advertised in the Feminist Book- menstruation to menopause and beyond. Having a
store Network Fall Catalog. $19.95 pb, 1-56718-340-9. Baby ($8.95 pb, 1-56853-032-3) provides information
The New Book of Goddesses & Heroines by on healthcare during pregnancy, the stages of labor
Patricia Monaghan. No matter what Her name, She is and delivery, preparing for parenthood, and handling
the ultimate source of divine feminine power: the a newborn child. It also offers useful information on
Goddess. This essential reference has been newly the many physical, social, and emotional issues faced
revised to encompass more than 1,500 goddess names, by parents-to-be. If you don’t (yet?!) have a section for
symbols, myths, rites, invocations and prayers from new readers, or for women with limited literacy skills,
all times and places. Embrace the global Goddess in try to find another way to draw attention to these
all Her sacred aspects. Includes 53 photographs from books and bring them to the attention of women who
Chicago’s Field Museum of Natural History. Adver- will pass the word that your store has these books.
tised in the Feminist Bookstore Network Fall Catalog. 47%. Signal Hill Publications, Laubach Literacy, 1320
$19.95 pb, 1-56718-340-9. Jamesville Avenue, Box 131, Syracuse NY 13210;
43% for 5+. Llewellyn Worldwide, Ltd., 85 S. 315-422-9121. Distributed by Ingram.
Wabasha, St. Paul MN 55107; 800-843-6666, ext. 742.
Also available from BP, Koen, B&T and Ingram.
Medicine Women: A Pictorial History of
Women Healers by Elisabeth Brooke. Women have Teen Moms: The Pain and the Promise by
always been healers — from ancient temple priest- Evelyn Lerman. The half billion dollars earmarked
esses to medieval herbalists to the alternative for abstinence-only programs will not help the four-
practitioners today. Yet while women are widely in-ten women in the United States who become
known as nurses and midwives, they have not been pregnant before age 20. Evelyn Lerner spent two
recognized for their roles as doctors, educators and years interviewing teenage mothers, and found that
researchers. With over 100 full-color illustrations, this most were victims of sexual abuse, male predators
glorious gift book celebrates women’s many contribu- and poverty. Teen Moms emphasizes the need to
tions to the healing arts throughout history. address the problem, and offers aggressive solutions
Advertised in the Feminist Bookstore Network Fall to end the teen pregnancy epidemic. Advertised in
Catalog. $20 pb, 0-8356-0751-8. 30% for 1—4; 40% for the Feminist Bookstore Network Fall Catalog. $14.95
5—9; 41% for 10+. Quest Books. Also available from pb, 1-885356-25-0; $21.95 cl, -24-2. Morning Glory
National Book Network; 800-462-3366, BP, Koen, B&T, Press. Available from IPG, B&T and Ingram.
Ingram and New Leaf.
The cover of the reissue of Tree: Essays & Pieces
Women’s Health and Having a Baby are two by Deena Metzger features the famous photo of
new books from Signal Hill Publications, an imprint Deena with a beautiful tattoo over her mastectomy
of Laubach Literacy, the nation’s oldest and largest scar. This new volume includes additional writings
nonprofit organization helping adults with limited by Metzger which place Tree in the larger context of
literacy skills. Both have easy-to-read formats and are her vision for healing ourselves and our communi-
comprehensive and informative. Women’s Health ties, always linking the personal with the political.
97 November /December 1997
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
“With rich and evocative language Deena Metzger “What About the Children?” Sons and Daugh-
plays on an old myth to explore the dilemma of male ters of Lesbian and Gay Parents Talk About Their
and female and the conflict between masculine and Lives by Lisa Saffron is a fascinating and accessible
feminine values. This is a moving book, one that collection of interviews with daughters and sons of
brings us closer to the truths we need in order to lesbians or gay men. Women and men from different
survive.” —Susan Griffin (Pornography and Silence). races and classes, from ages 11 to 66, examine the
$15.95 pb, 1-55643-245-3. North Atlantic Books, PO effect of their upbringing on their adult lives with a
Box 12327, Berkeley CA 94712; 510-559-8277. Distrib- combination of humor and serious reflection. It’s a
uted by PGW. British book, but the issues are the same. $18.95 pb,
0-304-33523-1, Cassell. Distributed by Books Interna-
In poetic and vivid language, The Shutter of tional, PO Box 605, Herndon VA 20172; 800-561-7704.
Snow by Emily Holmes Coleman portrays the post-
partum psychosis of Marthe Gail, who, after giving HOO
birth to her son, spends two months in an insane
asylum with the belief that she is God. The book,
which was originally published in 1930, is based on In Counseling Lesbian Partners Joretta L.
the author's own experience. Coleman (1899—1974) Marshall examines issues that lesbian couples face in
was a poet and a prominent figure in the Paris literary working through their relationships within the context
scene. She co-edited (with T.S. Eliot) Djuna Barnes’ of their sexuality and the society's oppression of
Nightwood. $12.95 pb, 1-56478-147-X. Dalkey Archive lesbians. “However you define your role as a pastoral
Press, ISU Box 4241, Normal IL 61790; 309-438-7555. caregiver...invest yourself in this book. In its integrated
Distributed by Chicago Distribution Center: 800-621- reflections on clinical and pastoral practice, respective
2736 or 773-568-1550. of scripture, theology, secular resources and the
author's own spiritual and professional maturity, it
A Stunning Literary Début models what pastoral theology should be.” —Peggy
Way, Eden Theological Seminary. $18 pb, 0-664-25532-9.
Westminster John Knox Press, 100 Witherspoon St.,
What birds can only whisper Louisville KY 40202; 502-569-5058. Distributed by
Spring Arbor, also available from Ingram and B&T.
by Julie Brickman
Kendra Quillan, leader Daughters of the Moon, Sisters of the Sun:
of a feminist/dyke rock Young Women and Mentors on the Transition to
band in Toronto, finds Womanhood by K. Wind Hughes and Linda Wolf,
her world beginning to photography by Linda Wolf. The journey to woman-
shatter when she wakes hood is filled with confusion, passion and courage.
up beside the first lover Twenty-one young women — together with
she’s had in a decade and
wants to kill him. mentors including the Indigo Girls, Michelle Akers,
An engrossing novel by Starhawk and Angela Davis — share their powerful
a psychologist who offers stories of surviving and overcoming abuse, bulimia,
a clear, new voice on suicide, coming out, pregnancy, drugs and death in
childhood sexual abuse these compelling photographic essays. A profound
and recovered memory. gift from mother to daughter, or sister to sister.
ISBN 0-8 8 D8 i0 st1 r- i2 b1 u4 t- e4 d $ i1 n4 . 9 t5 h e U S U/ S$ 1 b7. y9 5 L PC Can a Gd ra o u, p 3 0 10 -8 0p 0a -g 3e 3s 4, - 3Q 89P 2 I sn idc elu lid ne es s 7 a5 ls o p h ao vt ao ils a. b lB e.o o Akm dva er rk ts i, s e dp o s inte r ts h ea n Fd e mot inh ie sr t
and in Canada by General Distribution Services 1-800-387-0172 Bookstore Network Fall Catalog. $19.95 pb, 0-87571-
377-4, New Society Publishers. Distibuted by
` TURNSTONE PRESS LPC/InBook, and also available from BP, Koen,
B&T, Ingram and New Leaf.
November /December 1997 98
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Women’s Ventures, Women’s Visions by earthy, scrappy and often wildly funny. This is a truly
Shoshana Alexander presents 29 inspiring stories of accessible book for those intrigued — yet perhaps
women who have followed their dream of being their intimidated by — the practice of Zen. This is dharma
own boss and are succeeding! The women represented from the heartland. Advertised in the Feminist Book-
reflect the incredible diversity in age, ethnic back- store Network Fall Catalog. $12.95 pb, 0-89087-849-8.
ground, socio-economic class, and location of women 47% for 10+ FOB assorted titles. Celestial Arts, PO Box
business owners in the U.S. today. Such women 7123, Berkeley CA 94707; 800-841-2665. Also available
include award-winning producer Marcy Casy, nun from BP, Koen and B&T.
and massage therapist Sister Rosalind Gefre, consult-
ant for small and mid-sized companies at critical Success with Soul by Doris Pozzi and Stephen
junctures in their development, Sylvia Warren, and Williams. Two personal growth experts dispel the
other incredible women. $14.95 pb, 0-89594-823-0. popular myth that to be successful you must live a
The Natural Pregnancy Book: Herbs, Nutrition, balanced lifestyle. Pozzi and Williams help readers
and Other Holistic Choices by Aviva Jill Romm, identify values, define what is important to them,
foreword by Ina May Gaskin, explores topics includ- and develop life goals as an alternative to juggling
ing pregnancy as a time of transformation, learning competing priorities. Readers’ experiences make
to listen to your body, using herbs to promote and each discovery unique. This is the perfect guide for
maintain a healthy pregnancy and choosing your those desiring change and meaningful success.
prenatal care provider. “From conception to birth, Advertised in the Feminist Bookstore Network Fall
and all the days between, this book offers history, Catalog. $14.95 pb, 0-646-28692-7, Dorian Welles.
remedies, and woman-loving visions of health in a Available from BP, Koen, B&T, Ingram and New
clear voice that rings with experience.” —Susun Leaf.
Weed (Wise Woman Herbal for the Childbearing Year).
$19.95 pb, 0-89594-819-2.
In On Grief and Dying: Understanding the
Soul’s Journey Diane Stein weaves together a rich
variety of resources from the contemporary Goddess Based on a solid framework of theory and
movement, powerful psychic techniques and the an- research, Setting Psychological Boundaries: A
cient traditions of Buddhism and Greek mythology, Handbook for Women by Anne Cope Wallace illus-
leading the reader on a remarkable journey to loving trates definitive ways in which we learn to recognize
acceptance, affirmation and hope. On Grief and psychological boundaries — our unique and inner
Dying offers a healing perspective and important territory — and to defend our rights in every relation-
insights on the issues of death and loss. $15 c|, ship. In a study that interweaves poetry, drama and
0-89594-830-3. psychological theory, the author describes patterns of
The Crossing Press, PO Box 1048, Freedom CA family dynamics in the context of everyday lives and
95018; 408-722-0711. Also available from BF, B&T, how they affect us from generation to generation until
Ingram. we break the destructive chain. Following the paths of
ten remarkable women, from the narrative of a
Stumbling Toward Enlightenment by Geri resourceful inner-city child to the survival of a holo-
Larkin is the story of one woman's leap off the corpo- caust victim, this book, filled with compelling voices,
rate fast track into a search for emotional tranquility will touch the reader in unexpected ways. $21.95 cl,
and spiritual contentment. Larkin’s style is honest, 0-89789-534-7.
Volume 20 Number 4 99 November /December 1997
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Written by a wide range of scholars and military My Soul Is a Woman: The Feminine in Islam by
personnel, Wives & Warriors: Women and the Mili- Annemarie Schimmel, the publisher writes, “Schimmel
tary in the United States and Canada edited by is critical of those — especially Western feminists —
Laurie Weinstein and Christie C. White is a collection who take Islam to task without taking the time to
of essays that cover such issues as the opening of comprehend the cultures, language, and the tradi-
military academies to women, the opening of combat tions of the many societies in which Islam is the
posts to women, sexual harassment, and U.S. and majority religion.... Schimmel reconstructs an impor-
Canadian policies allowing lesbians and gays to serve tant but little-known chapter of Islamic spirituality.
in the military. It is about the women who serve in the With copious examples, she shows the clear equality
military as wives and those who serve as soldiers, of women and men in the conception of the Prophet
sailors and flyers. Wives & Warriors examines how Muhammad, the Quran, the feminine language of
the military constructs gender to maintain the status the mystical tradition, and the role of holy mothers
quo, excluding women from being respected as equals and unmarried women as manifestations of God.”
to men and maintaining their narrowly defined roles $22.95 cl, 0-8264-1014-6. Continuum Books, 370
as the dependent helpmates of men. $22.95 pb, Lexington Ave., New York NY 10017; 212-953-5858.
0-89789-526-6. Available from BP.
Bergin & Garvey, an imprint of Greenwood
Publishing Group, 88 Post Road West, PO Box 5007,
Westport CT 06881; 800-225-5800.
After decades of silence (or misinformation) on
the subject, books that examine the role of women in
the Islamic world are finally being published. About
: :
333 ie e Eco Rc oc0.000000000000
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
gendered politics of state power, language, culture, Innisfree Press, Inc., 3445 N. Fremont Avenue #1,
history, social movements, human rights and Tucson AZ 85719; 215-247-4085. Distributed by Con-
knowledge in Latin America. “This wide-ranging sortium, also available from Ingram, New Leaf and
multidisciplinary collection is essential reading, Spring Arbor.
bringing together theoretical reflection and case study
material on the different meanings given to politics in In Caretakers of Our Common House: Women’s
Latin America today.” —Maxine Molyneux, Univer- Development in Communities of Faith, Carol Lakey
sity of London. $18 pb, 0-85345-976-2. Monthly Hess argues compellingly for theological education that
Review Press, 122 West 27th St., New York NY 10001; nurtures women as caretakers of themselves and of our
212-691-2555. Available from BP and Koen. communities of faith. “This highly readable study asks
whether the Church can make a difference in the devel-
Language, Gender, and Professional Writing: opment of young women in a culture that destroys
Theoretical Approaches and Guidelines for [their] self-esteem... A truly engaging book.” —Elisa-
Nonsexist Usage by Francine Wattman Frank, Paula beth Schüssler Fiorenza, Harvard Divinity School.
A. Treichler, et al. This landmark book explores the Advertised in the Feminist Bookstore Network Fall
origins and effects of biased language and provides Catalog. $18.95 pb, 0-687-00963-4. 40% for 5—9. Abing-
sensible guidelines for nondiscriminatory speech and don Press; 800-251-3320. Also available from Ingram.
writing. Winner of Choice’s Outstanding Academic
Book Award, this volume demonstrates the value of
avoiding biased language and stimulates readers to
think of language as a rich resource offering many
alternatives to objectionable usage. Advertised in the God on the Wall by B.M. Spaight tells the story
Feminist Bookstore Network Fall Catalog. $18 pb, of Elizabeth Wallace, who, having grown up in a
0-87352-179-X. Modern Language Association, 10 dysfunctional family in Ireland, has no wish to be part
Astor Place, New York NY 10003; 212-614-6304. Avail- of a family again. This novel explores Wallace’s jour-
able from Ingram. ney as a working-class woman deciding on single
motherhood. It is about family: old and new. $14.95
In Spiritual Lemons: Biblical Women, Irrever- pb, 1-898256-23-3, The Collins Press. Distributed by
ent Laughter, and Righteous Rage, Rev. Lyn Dufour Editions, Inc., Chester Springs PA 19425; 610-
Brakeman explores the struggles of eight biblical 458-5005, fax 610-458-7103.
women who had their spirituality turned upside
down. By liberating the stories of these women from Crowning the Queen of Love by Susan Welch
their often sanctimonious closets of holiness, Brake- is a haunting and often dark collection of love
man offers modern commentaries and meditations stories. “[Welch’s] protagonists include a disabled
for those who struggle to find gifts in life's lemons. woman, a cancer patient, and a mixed race couple,
Designed as a study guide, each chapter opens with to name just a few.... Welch seems fascinated with
a biblical text and a question derived from that text, taboos, and how breaking them can create a sort of
which is then expanded and illuminated with a story moral clarity. In these deftly crafted love stories for
to answer the question. A personal commentary an unlovely age, Welch poises her women on the
follows each story and suggestions for personal edge of transformation and self-realization, some-
prayer, meditation and group study are found at times allowing them to cross to redemption.”
the end of each chapter. $12.95 pb, 1-880913-22-4. —Minnesota Monthly. $13.95 pb, 1-56689-058-6.
Volume 20 Number 4 101 November /December 1997
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Coffee House Press, 27 North Fourth St. #400, ologues, Liu’s narrator is a young Chinese American
Minneapolis MN 55401; 612-338-0125. Distributed woman with a deadpan wit, who scours the demi-
by Consortium. monde of drag queens and club kids for “romance” —
her strategy for survival within the soulless greed of
“Spanning twelve hours in September, from dusk the Reagan-era mainstream. Liu guides the reader
till dawn, and set in Brazil’s São Paulo, this cinematic into the underbelly of the 80s New York through a
novel tracks a gang's robbery at a funeral home... series of skewering perspectives — the temp’s view of
Early Mourning by Edla Van Steen jumps among an old-boy law firm, the stripper’s Wall Street, the
multiple plots, features a cast of eccentric characters struggling critic's Soho. “Please give Liu some shelf
— most memorably a female transvestite who moon- space — her fresh voice says a lot to young readers.”
lights as a professional mourner — and black humor... —JT. $13.95 pb, 1-885030-24-X. Kaya, 133 W. 25th St.
The racy prose, briskly translated by David S. George, #3E, New York NY 10001; 212-352-9220, fax 212-352-
is in the present tense, adding to the headlong rush of
events.” —Washington Post Book World. Winner of the
Brazilian Academy of Letters prize for best novel and
the Pen Club of Brazil for best book in 1993. $13.95 pb,
0-935480-84-6. Latin American Literary Review Press,
121 Edgewood Avenue, Pittsburgh PA 15218; 412-371- “White Bread Competition by Jo Ann Yolanda
9023, fax 412-371-9025. Available from BP. Hernández is a fun read — I had a hard time putting
it down.” This collection of interlinking stories
“I really enjoyed Oriental Girls Desire Romance follow Luz, a young Latina, who will represent her
by Catherine Liu.” A refugee from an Ivy League San Antonio schoolin the upcoming state-wide spell-
education and a family of middle-class Maoist ide- ing bee. The stories follow the experiences of Luz’s
sister, who has mixed feelings about her sister’s ac-
OAA SAOIL AREL Nalo complishments; her mother, who pushes Luz to be
the best she can be; and her grandmother, who fears
fp io cw tie or nf .u ..l! You'll wish they weren't merely h te ir g r a on fdd au Lg ah tt ie nr s’s pam inbi st io n sw h hile a en so t h oer g hen ee rra -
o n a it o p n . Luz’s
What would our lives be like if our desires and participation in this context signifies a substantial
needs were not filtered through men's demands milestone for her community’s sense of pride and
and restrictions? achievement. “Beautiful! This is Jo Ann’s first full-
length collection.” —JT. $7.95 pb, 1-55885-210-7.
What would our lives be like if women's, rather Consuelo Harburton was orphaned at an early
ht uh man a n m be en h's a, v ib oreh ?avior were the standard for Cag oe n s uan eld o w ish e sn e n th e r to u ln ivcl ee w(h ite hr hgu erar d gi ran an) d mlos oe ts h eh r is i n j o b t, he
Answers to these questions become reality in the s eu xb ciu tr eb ms. e n I tn w C ea al vl e M ae dC ro an ms au te il co , w i en bt r i ag ru oe u, n dd a n Cg oner s u ea ln od
riveting new book, as she is thrust into a new life in unfamiliar surround-
ANATOMY'S DESTINY ings and is plunged into a mystery that begs to be
solved. This book, award-winning author Ofelia
by Louise Annschild Dumas Lachtman’s newest novel for young adults,
$12.00 follows Consuelo’s struggles with the changes in her
S Bus xa n 2 9B 4 , P Ou ib lvli is lh lei ,n g V. a, 23129 l fi rf ie e, n da sn d a n w d e a s e le o v it nh ga t g a r a nq dui mrk oty h ec ra s t t e ao cf h n he ew r - f to hu an td she
has a secure place in her new life. $7.95 pb, 1-55885-
187-9; $14.95 cl, -188-7, Piñata Books.
Arte Público Press, University of Houston,
Houston TX 77204; 713-743-2841. Available from BP.
November/December 1997 102
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsIn Chicken, a novel by Paula Martinac, Lynn, a mystery novel and first in a series featuring
writer whose 13-year relationship with Claire just went Josephine Fuller, a boldly drawn woman of sub-
bust, has started to regroup by spending some time stance certain to take her place in the pantheon of
between the sheets with Lexy, a much younger and much-admired amateur sleuths. Shocked by the mur-
uninhibited bartender. Lynn is also consoling herself der of her friend and mentor, Jo Fuller untangles a
with Jude, the young and alluring daughter of a femi- Gordian knot of clues that maddeningly point to
nist artist famous for carving oversized wooden several suspects at the same time. “Finally! Great
sculptures of women’s genitals. “Three generations of character, terrific concept. Josephine Fuller is a hero-
contemporary lesbians are gently but firmly skewered ine for the 90s: self-confident, self- accepting, strong.
in this delightful Manhattan romp.” —Barbara Wilson Wonderful!” —Kathleen Swanholt, editor, Mysterious
(If You Had a Family). $10.95 pb, 1-55583-433-7. Alyson Women Newsletter. “I really enjoyed Larger Than
Publications, 6922 Hollywood Blvd. #1000, Los Angeles Death and am looking forward to Murray’s next
CA 90028; 800-464-4574. Distributed by Consortium. mystery with Jo Fuller. Booksellers, please handsell
this to your mystery fans.” —JT. $23 cl, 0-9642949-0-7.
Order from publisher: 50% discount. Orloff Press, PO
Box 80774, Athens GA 30608; 800-724-8078. Also
available from B&T and Ingram.
An Intricate Weave: Women Write About Girls
and Girlhood edited by Marlene Miller, with an intro- First Love & Look for My Obituary: Two Novellas
duction by Kristen Golden, showcases the work of 67 by Elena Garro, translated by David Unger, won the
authors who write about the girls in their lives and in prestigious Sor Juana Inés de la Cruz Prize sponsored
the world today, and also about their own girlhoods by the Guadalajara International Book Fair. First
and the girl who remains within. Contributors include Comes Love examines the consequences of two tour-
Julia Alvarez, Kelly Cherry, Judith Ortiz Cofer, ists befriending German prisoners of war in France
Carolyn Kizer, Denise Levertov, Peggy Orenstein and and explores the tension between primal human kind-
Adrienne Rich. “After reading most of these pieces I ness and social conventions. Look for My Obituary
found myself wanting to do two things: stop and explores a surrealistic, haunting love affair set in a
savor the complexity of images and feelings created world of arranged marriages. “Elena Garro is the best
by these gifted women, and then call a friend and read writer in Mexico today.”—Emmanuel Caballo. $11.95
a story aloud. This books deserves an audience.” pb, 1-880684-51-9. Curbstone Press, 321 Jackson
—Kate Fitzsimmons, The San Francisco Review. 40% for Street, Willimantic CT 06226; 860-423-5110. Distrib-
2+ copies. $15.95 pb, 0-945372-15-9. Iris Editions, 1278 uted by Consortium.
Glenneyre #138, Laguna Beach CA 92651; 800-247-
6553. Also available from BP, B&T and Ingram. In When a Lifemate Dies: Stories of Love, Loss,
and Healing, more than 50 contributors share vivid,
“My name is Josephine Fuller and I've never real-life accounts of how the loss of their mate (hus-
weighed less than two hundred pounds in my adult band, wife, or domestic partner) has affected their
life — not counting the chip on my shoulder. Friends lives. By articulating often unspoken feelings and
call me Donna Quixote because tilting windmills is experiences, the authors of these moving short stories,
what I do for a living. How did I get started? I journal entries and poems provide emotional support
answered an ad in the San Francisco Chronicle...” So and healing comfort for others who, like them, have
begins Larger Than Death, Lynne Murray’s latest been touched by the loss of a lifemate. About
103 November /December 1997
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
FOR-GIVING: A FEMINIST of three writers as they interact with one another, the
world and their art. Long out of print, this is the first
CRITICISM OF EXCHANGE paperback publication of The Lights of Earth.
Advertised in the Feminist Bookstore Network Fall
Genevieve Vaughan, who founded the Founda- Catalog. $12.50 pb, 1-887178-53-8, Counterpoint.
tion for a Compassionate Society in 1987, unrav- Distributed by PGW, also available from BP, Koen,
els the twisted strands of pa- B&T and Ingram.
triarchy and proposes a
woman-based gift economy Women Artists: An Illustrated History by
as the principle of a nurtur- Nancy Heller. With lavish color illustrations, Women
ing socio-economic way, Artists provides an unprecedented wealth of visual
which will satisfy the needs material. The text offers a lively overview of the
o cof u na tll s. tS hh ee aa cls to iv ib tir ei se f l oy f r te h- e barriers that generations of women artists have
encountered while emphasizing the ingenious ways
Foundation as the practice women have circumvented these obstacles to estab-
oTf hthee t heboroy.ok will soon be lish themselves in the art world. Updated third
placed on the Internet as a 2ed 07it i o iln lu: s ts rev ate ir oa nl s ,n e 1w 5 2 a r inti s t cs o, l o re .x p Aan dd ve ed r t ib seib dl i o ingr a tp hh ey,
Morgan. Published by Pl ag inif t . V iF ewor e w Pro er sd s . by Robin 0F -e 7m 89in 2i -s 0t 3 4 B 5-o 6o .k s 4t 0o %re fN oe rt w 5o —rk 24 . F a All b bC ea vt ia lll eo g . P r $ e3 s7 s,. 5 0 4 8 8pb,
To order this book call (512) 447-6222 or write Madison Ave., New York NY 10022; 800-227-7210.
P h.O tp. p :B /O /X w w 1 w8 .0 c8 o7 m, p A asu ss iot nin a, t e .T oX rg 78760 Also available from B&T and Ingram.
e-mail ffacs@igc.apc.org
Stolen Moments by Judy Francesconi. Photo-
graphic art book capturing romantic, playful and
two-thirds of the contributors are women. Edited by sensual images of women with women as only Judy
Susan Heinlein, Grace Brumett and Jane-Ellen Tibbals. Francesconi can. Over 40 black-and-white and
$14.95 pb, 1-57749-056-8. Fairview Press, 2450 River- duotone images. Very nicely done. $25.95, no ISBN.
side Avenue South, Minneapolis MN 55454. For 6+ copies contact Judy Francesconi Studios; 310-
Distributed by National Book Network, also available 236-2101, fax 310-204-1756. Also available from BP.
from Ingram, B&T, BP and Koen. — Dorothy Holland
“With pathos and humor, eleven women and
men writers explore deeply human challenges —
physical, emotional, personal and universal. Finding
a dialogue of the heart between the genders, it is an Torn Shapes of Desire: Internet Erotica by
anthology of healing that touches darkness and Mary Anne Mohanraj, with photographs by Tracy
openly celebrates light.” —Margo LaGuttata, editor, Lee, is a hot collection of erotic short stories, poems
Almost Touching: A Reader for Women and Men. and letters. Her mix of style, genre and setting is
$17.95 pb, 0-911051-84-8. Order from the publisher evocative — with stories to suit many tastes. The
50% for 5+. Plain View Press, PO Box 33311, Austin TX book also includes an interview with other writers
78764; 512-441-2452. Also available from B&T. of Internet erotica and essays discussing healthy
sexuality and free speech on the Internet. FYI: this
The Lights of Earth by Gina Berriault. “Gina collection is 90% heterosexual, but there is one male-
Berriault has been writing superbly for thirty years. male story, one story of consensual incest, one letter
It’s time she became an overnight sensation.” by a closeted lesbian to her love interest after the
—Newsday. From the author of the award-winning lesbian kills herself, and one planned assault story
Women in Their Beds, this short poetic novel is a study by a woman who wants to have sex with a woman
November /December 1997 104
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
friend and plans for a male friend to come in and throughout the world. Other books from Mary Beth
pretend to force them to have sex. $14.95 pb, Bond include Gutsy Women and Gutsy Mamas; both are
1-885876-03-3. Intangible Assets Manufacturing, 828 packed with advice and practical information for
Ormond Avenue, Drexel Hill PA 19026; 888-399- women on the road. Advertised in the Feminist
9426, 610-853-4406. Available from Koen, BP, Ingram Bookstore Network Fall Catalog. $17.95 pb, 1-885211-
and other wholesalers. 06-6. 45% for 5—99. Travelers’ Tales / O'Reilly & Assoc.,
101 Morris St., Sebastopol CA 95472; 800-998-9938.
Sirens: Symbols of Seduction by Meri Lao. Also available from BP, Koen, B&T and Ingram.
Since the sirens first tempted Ulysses, they and their
mermaid sisters have been symbols of the lure of the Maxine: A Literate Companion for Churlish Girls
dark feminine, inspiring artists and writers through- and Rakish Womens a stylishly produced, well-written,
out the ages. This lavishly illustrated gift book interesting and fun new magazine, with each issue
celebrates the sirens, mermaids and harpies of art devoted to exploring a new theme. We received issue no.
and literature, and offers an intriguing Jungian 3 for review, which contains stories, essays, photos and
perspective on this powerful archetype. 300 color comics on women and travel. The next issue (“which
and b&w illustrations. Advertised in the Feminist will hopefully be out before 1998, but I'm not holding my
Bookstore Network Fall Catalog. $40 cl, 0-89281- breath!” says co-editor and publisher Martha Bayne)
653-8. 40% for 6—24; 42% for 25—49. Inner Traditions will be on the topic of Crime and Punishment. Maxine,
International, One Park Street, Rochester VT 05767; which was profiled in A Girl's Guide to Taking Over the
800-246-8648. Also available from BP, Koen, B&T, World (St. Martin's Press), is now also on the Web:
Ingram and New Leaf. (http://homepage.interaccess.com/~maxineab). $3 per
issue. 60%. Maxine, PO Box 408774, Chicago IL 60640;
312-226-6690. Distributed by Small Changes, Desert
Moon and DeBoers; 201-667-9300.
Tanzania on Tuesday: Writing by American Newly revised: The Self-Publishing Manual by
Women Abroad edited by Kathleen Coskran and C.W. Dan Poynter (10th ed.). “The book is a must for those
Truesdale is the second in a series of New Rivers Press’ considering publishing as a business, for writers who
anthologies of women’s travel writing. “The nearly 50 want to investigate self publishing, and is eminently
short pieces of travel writing that comprise this useful for its new and old ideas to those who have
volume display such a wealth of perspectives and already begun to do it. A fine and handy guide by a
explore such a variety of locales that the book is a fine and successful publisher.” —Small Press Review.
splendid adventure in itself.” $19.95 pb, 0-89823-179- $19.95 pb, 1-56860-047-X. 40% for 5+. Para Publishing,
5. New Rivers Press, 420 North 5th St. #910, PO Box 8206-344, Santa Barbara CA 93118; 805-968-
Minneapolis MN 55401; 612-339-7114 or 800-339-2011. 7277. Distributed by PGW.
Distributed by Consortium, also available from BP.
Take Stage! How to Direct and Produce a
Travelers’ Tales: A Woman’s World edited by Lesbian Play by Carolyn Gage is a practical, hands-on
Mary Beth Bond. Winner of the coveted Lowell
Thomas award for best travel book, Travelers’ Tales: For Small Press Distributor information,
A Woman’s World is a remarkable anthology of true, please see page 87.
contemporary stories by and about women traveling
105 November /December 1997
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
“A delightful Manhattan romp.” “Compelling, humane, sometimes
—Barbara Wilson funny, sometimes sad, beautifully
written, and wise.”
—Anne Lamott
guide for anyone directing and producing a play by, be one of their best friends. Advertised in the Feminist
with, for or about lesbians by a woman who has Bookstore Network Fall Catalog. $13.95 pb, 1-885171-
been involved in every aspect of lesbian theater. 19-6, Wildcat Canyon Press. Distributed by PGW, also
Gage has founded and directed three theater com- available from BP, Koen, B&T and Ingram.
panies, and is the author of The Second Coming of Joan
of Arc and Other Plays and Live Like There's No Tomorrow: In Boxing for Everyone: How to Get Fit and Have
Meditations for Women Leaving the Patriarchy. $38.50 pb, Fun With Boxing, Cappy Kotz guides the beginning
0-8108-3208-9. 40% for 1-5; 22% for 6+. Scarecrow and advanced boxer alike in experiencing the fitness
Press, 4720 Boston Way, Lanham MD 20706; 800-462- and emotional management benefits of a boxing work-
6420. Direct only. out. She instructs readers on basic punches, footwork,
skipping rope, and choosing and setting up boxing
equipment. Kotz also provides a thorough overview of
boxing techniques and practices plus solid, practical
suggestions for improved performance. Valuable tips
Living With Dogs: Tales of Love, Commitment, include developing a boxing regimen and avoiding
and Enduring Friendship by Henry Korman and injury. Boxing For Everyone is written in an empow-
Mary Ellen Korman captures the stories of dog lovers ering and easy-to-understand style addressing the
that demonstrate the unique bond between dogs and unique needs, physiological and psychological, of fe-
humans. It explores the life experiences of hundreds male boxers. 103 illustrations. A great and fun
of dog owners, including the ups and downs, adven- resource! $19.95 pb, 0-9657737-9-5. AmandaLore
tures, power struggles and peculiar characteristics Publishing, 1111 E. Madison 3433, Seattle WA 98122;
that make these kinships joyful. An intelligent, 206-320-1381. Distributed by Partners, also available
thoughtful book for people who consider their dog to from Koen, B&T and Ingram. o
November /December 1997 106 Volume 20 Number 4
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFROM
ITHE
iri
By Mev Miller office in the U.S.: 3576 California Rd., Orchard Park
NY 14127; 705-743-8990, fax 705-743-8353.
Well, it’s time for another column and the books Counterbalance: Gendered Perspectives for
are piling up all around me. I thought I'd try some- Writing and Language, edited by Carolyn Logan, is a
thing new for those of you who want that quick usable text — composition reader — for those who
reference but may not have time to read all my witty actively teach thinking, reading, and writing skills.
remarks! So, I'm devising a visual guide — here’s the Unlike most texts in this genre, this book presents a
way it works. “counterbalance” — three-quarters of the text are
The range is from 1—4 ****. One and two are more written by women, it includes some focus on feminist
suited for general feminist bookstores while three agendas, and it encompasses writers of color explor-
and four would do better in stores with an academic ing subjects of race, culture, and class. Though
audience. designed as an undergraduate textbook, including
* = suited for general audience or intro courses discussion topics and writing exercises, it may have
** = general audience but getting more difficult some interest for those with a general interest in view-
*** — getting ready for your doctorate points of gender and language. $26.95 pb,
**** — people highly interested or involved in this 1-55111-127-6.*
field are likely to invest in this one
I will rate only the books I've actually seen. Know
that this is not scientific — only my opinion based on l
ba o oc ku ,r s o I r y w o g nl 'ta n c re a. t e I f i t .I Pca len a' st e d le ec ti d me eo r k nh oa wve n i' ft yse oe un ft ih ne d CAMBRIDGE UNIVERSITY P ! RESS
this rating system to be helpful. If it’s too cumber- The titles from Cambridge are highly academic,
some, I won't continue to use it. Your feedback is but I wanted to mention them for two reasons: two
appreciated. Another question: Would a list of Univer- cover a subject not often handled (music) and one
sity Presses’ Web sites be worth it for me to compile? addresses a timely and hotly debated public policy
I can be reached via email (mev@winternet.com) issue (welfare). AIl these titles receive ****.
or by phone at Amazon Bookstore 612-338-6560. A note The newest title by Lucy Green, Music, Gender,
to publishers: please don't send me information via Education, claims to be the first book to focus on the
email — it will only get lost in my shuffle. I prefer to role of education in relation to music and gender.
have all information come in hard copy via mail or fax. $18.95 pb, 0-521-55522-1.
Of related interest and now available in paper:
BROADVIEW PRESS Embodied Voices: Representing Female Vocality in
Broadview Press is new to this column. They Western Culture, edited by Leslie Dunn and Nancy
publish high-quality, trade-format paperback editions A. Jones. $18.95, 0-521-58583-X.
only of scholarly works. Their main office is in Peter- Of interest to those deeply mired in the welfare
borough, Canada (PO Box 1243, ON, K9J 7H5); debates: Gender, Equality and Welfare States, Diane
705-743-8990, fax 705-743-8353. They also have an Sainsbury. $19.95 pb, 0-521-56579-0.
Volume 20 Number 4 107 November /December 1997
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Waking Sleeping COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS
Beauty The female body has always been a contested
F Ce hm ildin ri es nt ’ s V Noi oc ve es ls in s v oi nit e e w t p h— o ei n a t B o b dua ynt :dt el e Frg l eir meo s au l n et d h e E mf o e br s os a dc y io msm ecp noe tlt li en ac ng t de d i d F e i eno ml o iWg ni ie r ss ti. t i nT ghis
By Roberta Seelinger Trites Theory, edited by Katie Conroy, Nadia Medina, and
“Offers new readings of classic Sarah Stanbury. With writings both new and
children’s books as well as reprinted by such feminist thinkers as Catharine
glimpses of recent books on the MacKinnon, Gloria Anzaldúa, Judith Butler,
multicultural horizon. Trites’ Monique Wittig, and Sojourner Truth to name a few,
ca lr ag su srm oe on mt if so r i r rin esc il su td ibin leg . ” feminist critique t rh ei ps r c eo sll ee nct tio an t i oex np ,l o r pes e rt fhe o r f mem aa nle c e b ,o d sy e xth , r o pug oh rnography,
—Lucy Rollin, Clemson University menstruation, anorexia, and so on. $17.50 pb, 0-231-
184 pages 10545-2; $49.50 cl, -10544-4.**
$24.95s cloth (0-87745-590-2) Despite the fact that Sappho was long ago
$12.95 paper (0-87745-591-0) embraced as a lesbian poet and that the term lesbian
derives from Sappho’s Lesbos, Lesbian Desire in the
Between History and P Lyrics of Sappho by Jane McIntosh Snyder is the first
The Letters of H.D. and Norman Holme book (according to the jacket) to actually examine
Edited by Donna Krolik Hollenberg Sappho’s poetry through the “lens of lesbian desire,
“A treasure-trove for admirers of H.D.’s focusing on the active female gaze in the text and the
historians of twentieth-century literature narrative voice...” With the reprinting of the original
psychologists of the creative process.” Greek text and detailed English translation and trans-
—Susan Gubar, Indiana University literation, this work is perhaps too scholarly for the
326 pages, 1 photo casual reader. But this is an important work, showing
$35.95s cloth (0-87745-595-3) men on the periphery of Sappho’s consciousness
where female erotic desire focuses on other females.
She Wields a Pen s: $29.50 cl, 0-231-09994-0.***
American Women Poets of 4
the Nineteenth Century l
Edited by Janet Gray 1 |
“Formidably comprehensive ..…. This is an important title from last Spring that I
She Wields a Pen makes every somehow managed to miss but wanted to be sure
effort to counteract the bias of a was mentioned. Like Bread on the Seder Plate:
publishing industry centralized Jewish Lesbians and the Transformation of Tradi-
in the northeastern states by tion by Rebecca Alpert explores what it means to be
reprinting poets heretofore both Jewish and lesbian, and suggests ways in
marginalized ‘because of race, region, an which lesbians can reconcile the seemingly discor-
as well as gender.”—Women’s Review of dant elements of their identity. Alpert is one of the
416 pages first women to be ordained a rabbi and is now
$29.95s cloth (0-87745-574-0) openly lesbian. $24.50 cl, 0-231-09660-7.**
$15.95 paper (0-87745-575-9) If you're looking for that perfect quote to include
in that card you're sending to your dearest friend, or
Iowa a poem to send on a birthday, or a clever way to
express your desire, turn to Emma Donoghue. In
University of Iowa Press Poems Between Women: Four Centuries of Love,
Iowa City, Iowa ® 800-235-2665 Romantic Friendship, and Desire, Donoghue
November /December 1997 108 Volume 20 Number 4
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsiri trany RIAA OT A
collects a selection of poems in which women present
their affections for each other, as childhood play- Those who are captivated by the life, thought,
mates, romantic friends, and lovers. I really do wish, and controversy surrounding Hannah Arendt will
though, that the cover was a bit more attractive! $24.95 look forward to Hannah Arendt: Twenty Years Later,
cl, 0-231-10924-5.* edited by Larry May and Jerome Kohn. This collection
Of interest: Lesbian Panic: Homoeroticism in of 15 essays brings her work into dialogue with those
Modern British Women’s Fiction, Patricia Juliana philosophical views that are at center stage today —
Smith. $16.50 pb, 0-231-10621-1; $49.50 cl, -10620-3.*** and includes an extensive bibliography. $17.50 pb,
0-262-63182-2.****
INDIANA UNIVERSITY PRESS
Of interest to stores with strong film and theater
sections: Feminism and Film, Maggie Humm. $16.95
pb, 0-253-21146-98; $39.95 cl, -3334-2.****
Of interest for those with strong magazine sec- NEW YORK UNIVERSITY PRESS
tions: Differences: A Journal of Feminist Cultural Please note: NYU has revised their returns policy.
Studies brings together cultural studies and feminism Without prior authorization, books in clean, resalable
and aims to provide a forum for an examination of condition are eligible for return after 90 days, but no
cultural politics and discursive practices informed by more than 18 months from the date of invoice. To
feminist criticism. Published three times a year. $12.95, receive full credit, the package must clearly indicate
ISSN 1040-7391 .**** the invoice number, invoice date, discount, and list
Of specialized interest: To the Glory of Her Sex: price. Penalties are 2% above maximum discount.
Women’s Roles in the Composition of Medieval Books received damaged or shortage claims must be
Texts, Joan Ferrante. $19.95 pb, 0-253-21108-5; $39.95 made within 60 days of the invoice date. Be sure to
cl, -33254-0,** include proper paperwork when making claims or
returning damaged items.
JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY PRESS Hey y'all. Those of us from the South will be
In Beyond Gender: The New Politics of Work interested in Carryin’ On in the Lesbian and Gay
and Family, Betty Friedan addresses some of the most South, edited by John Howard, for a number of
crucial questions of the 90s — and proposes new ways reasons — including interesting historical perspec-
of thinking about work, family, and community. She tives and visibility to an often maligned section of
argues that women and men need to move forward the country. But feminist booksellers check it out!
from identity politics and gender-based, single-issue There’s a 40-page section about the life of Charis
political activism. Without yielding on women’s Books & More in Atlanta — complete with pictures!
issues, Friedan calls for a transformation of the intel- (I wish the one of Linda standing in front of the store
lectual, political, and economic structures within in 1974 was a bit clearer, though.) “Family” stores in
which those issues are viewed. Advertised in the the South should be sure to stock this one. $18.95 pb,
Feminist Bookstore Network Fall Catalog. $21.95 cl, 0-8147-3560-6.**
0-942875-84-6. Our store has a developed section of books on fat
Of special interest: An Army of Women: Gender oppression, body image, food issues, and so on. Fat
and Politics in Gilded Age Kansas, Michael Lewis activists have produced much but there's more to do
Goldberg. $39.95 cl, 0-8018-5562-4.*** — and here’s another front. There are lots of books
Volume 20 Number 4 109 November /December 1997
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsabout fat vs. beauty but not so much about how being
fat reflects “moral depravity” (though we know this
underlies some of the hatred against fat people). Well,
Emancipation and if you want to know more about this, Fat History:
Illusion Bodies and Beauty in the Modern West by Peter
Stearns explores fat’s transformation from a symbol
Rationality and Gender in of health and well-being to a sign of moral, psycho-
Habermas's Theory of logical, and physical disorder. Pass me the ice cream
Modernity while I try to take this in! $25.95 cl, 0-8147-8069-5.**
MARIE FLEMING At the end of the “Shameless Hussies” song we
252 pages $17.95 paper 0-271-01655-8 sing “...we are fighting for our rights and our sex...and
our sex...and our sex.” New Sexual Agendas, edited by
Lynne Segal, challenges the notion that there are fixed
sexual behaviors for men and women. This collection
Reconstructing of essays includes writings from the perspectives of
Political Theory women’s studies, literature, gender studies, cultural
studies, history, politics, and education as well as from
Feminist Perspectives sociologists, medical doctors, and psychologists. $17.95
MAR AY N DL Y N U D MED OI AT NE D N B S AY H RA AN YL AEY N pb, 0 - W81 o4 m7- e8 n0 7 T5- rX an; s f$ o4 r5 m c inl, g - 8 P0 o7 li6 t- i8 c. s* : * An Alternative
Reader, edited by Cathy Cohen, Kathleen Jones, and
224 pages $17.95 paper 0-271-01725-2 Joan Tronto, starts with the idea that the full integra-
For sale in the U.S. and Canada only tion of women into politics presents a radical
challenge to the nature of any political system. More
importantly, it places at the center of this discussion
FEMINIST RE-READING THE CANON the lives of poor and working class women, women
[I IfN MT ME AR NPR UE ET LA T KI AO NN TS o 6f c o pl ao gr e, a n td st h co os le cd te iof nin e od a as t“ icm lea sr g bin ya l . a” vA at ea h e of fty
Feminist 00 s , h i le f r r i t y
AERA ANRA MAT SENTIT Interpretations of women from differing perspectives is essential for
Immanuel Kant those interested in women’s political empowerment.
$22.95 pb, 0-8147-1558-30.**
EnıTED BY ROBIN MAY SCHOTT
440 pages $19.95 paper 0-271-01676-0
tF IN fE TM EI RN PIS RT ETATIDKS Interp rF ee tm atin ioi nst s of i Vn ig r g if n oA ir ah . — W A o t ot lh fl e ’a s s t o. ln o e vO en t e h f a ob t r o o e wk x op mlm o era nen s y a u n o n df a p tou hls o e g h e lta eiv sc be a i l a l nb ye , e cn o n w -ait-
S SE AR EE RN S RK RIE R SK AE NB A BA NR EI SHEU ES S ø Epr re ren p S B Y y LK V i IC Ae É r L WIk N AEe L g SL HÉa Oa Nr d Anp e o Lt d fe itn i et t N re d a Y to U uf b r y eh P re sEr e ei s rl s e iw ’e e n sr T ,i ht Bi cen oa g r lC ls r e. ue c t t tV t t s i i n r a wgg n i rd n iE ti da iP n ga geW t : sr o i c Lo bi el yaf s b: C i taL r hne a o s m s b L eei ia r fn f e a a s nR can ide na d a d a ti en dg ps a, rt
352 pages $18.95 paper 0-271-01699-X by Virginia Woolf as well as by Woolf scholars. Usable
by academics, it’s readable, refreshing, and provoca-
tive. $18.95 pb, 0-8147-1264-9; $55 cl, -1263-0.**
I remember being aware, when I first came to
feminism (late 70s), of the strong emphasis on self-
defense. Those of us active in rape crisis, Take Back the
Volume 20 Number 4
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsir l enyi FAA ONI A
Night, and the battered women’s movement seemed
especially focused on issues of self-defense. In recent
years it seems that the urgency of women’s self-
defense has waned, but Real Knockouts: The Physical
Feminism of Women’s Self-Defense by Martha
4
McCaughy offers a refreshing and much-needed l
perspective. It addresses an ambivalence many femi- |
nists face — how to not be a helpless victim of abuse 1
while embracing actions of violence including self- NORTHEASTERN UNIVERSITY PRESS
defense. Real Knockouts explores the connections be- Jazz fans and those who like good biographies
tween feminist theory and “a woman’s balled fist,” and will enjoy Billie Holiday by Stuart Nicholson. Not
reveals that the self-defense culture embodies a new only does this biography tell her life story but it also
form of feminism — one that changes how we under- includes photographs, a complete discography, and
stand gender politics, the female body, and feminism most interestingly, a listing of songs composed or
itself. Advertised in the Feminist Bookstore Network co-composed by Billie. $15.95 pb, 1-55553-303-5.**
Fall Catalog. $18.95 pb, 0-8147-5577-1.** Louisa May Alcott on Race, Sex, and Slavery,
In a newly revised second edition, Introducing edited by Sarah Elbert, collects for the first time in one
Women’s Studies, edited by Victoria Robinson and volume Alcott’s writings that support the abolition of
Diane Richardson, provides the reader with an up-to- slavery and champion the cause of women’s rights.
date introductory text that covers major debates in $12.95 pb, 0-55553-307-8.**
women’s studies. New chapters focus on social policy, Don’t let the title of this next one scare you
science and technology, and feminist research method- away. Beyond Portia: Women, Law, and Literature
ologies. This continues to be an important book for in the United States, edited by Jacqueline St. Joan
those interested in the academics of women’s studies. and Annette Bennington McElhiney, is a pioneering
$19.95 pb, 0-8147-7494-6; $55 cl, -7493-8.* collection that challenges the historical marginaliza-
Queer theory — is it in danger of becoming just tion of women’s lives in the canons of law and
another category of theoretical inquiry? Just another literature. Essays, short stories, poems, and personal
academic discipline? So soon? The Gay 90s: Discipli- narratives, written by such women as Lucille
nary and Interdisciplinary Formation in Queer Clifton, Hisaye Yamamoto DeSoto, Judy Grahn, Joy
Studies (Genders 26), edited by Thomas Foster, Carol Harjo, Audre Lorde, Valerie Miner, and Leslie
Siegel, and Ellen Berry, addresses this potential prob- Marmon Silko to name just a few, weave together a
lem. The essays collected here contrast older academic multicultural collage of experiences and subjects ex-
disciplines with newer, identity-based areas of study. ploring women’s relationships with the law. $20 pb,
$17.95 pb, 0-8147-2673-9; $55 cl, -2672-0.*** 1-55553-306-X.****
Looking for a first novel? Psychological thriller? Also of interest: A Bride’s Passage: Susan
Post-modern conundrum? Check out Bye-Bye — Hathorn’s Year Under Sail, Catherine Petroski. $15.95
New York University Press Prize for Fiction — by Jane pb, 1-55553-297-7."
Ransom. $17.95 cl, 0-8147-7490-3.*
Of related interest: The Queer Renaissance: OXFORD UNIVERSITY PRESS
Contemporary American Literature and the When I first received the reading copy of Femi-
Reinvention of Lesbian and Gay Identities, Robert nism, Media, and the Law, edited by Martha
Volume 20 Number 4 111 November /December 1997
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Fineman and Martha McCluskey, I got a bit worried.
Other Voices Looking at the articles presented in double columns I
wondered if I could make any sense of it. This collec-
tion of 23 articles is not only surprisingly readable, but
the topics of discussion — hate radio, glamour maga-
zines, movies of the week, “bad mothers” and welfare
reform, lesbians and prostitutes, and rape on the
soaps to name a few — are interesting as well. Overall,
they explore how the media represents and constructs
gender, law, and feminism. $24.95 pb, 0-19-509629-0;
$45 cl, -509628-2.**
Gerda Lerner is perhaps one of the most impor-
tant feminist historians, having written several
groundbreaking books including The Creation of the
Patriarchy and The Creation of Feminist Consciousness.
As if talking to herself, Lerner’s newest book, Why
iR sse un ea si s s ia nn c ae pw rr ei dt oe mr inLa au nr ta ly C mer ae lt ea v(1 en46 u9 e- -1 th49 e9 ) h up mre as ne in st ts af ue tm obi in oi gs rt a- History Matters: Life and Thought, explores in
phy in the form of personal letters. Now available in English twelve essays the importance of history and the vital
for the first time, these letters are a testament both to an indi- role women have played in it. It includes her own
vidual woman and to enduring feminist concerns. personal reminiscences of her life as a Jewish refugee
*Paper $19.95 from Hitler's persecution, and innovative ideas about
issues of race and class. $30, 0195046447.**
Dialogue on the Infinity of Love Of specialized interest: The Erotics of Talk:
TULLIA D'ARAGONA Women’s Writing and Feminist Paradigms, Carla
“The first English translation of an important Renaissance dia- Kaplan. $17.95 pb, 0-19-509915-X; $35 cl, -509914-1.****
vw ee a ll ato rhg ey o in rco u et prh rte e s a sn n ia t u ea nr e d do pf o e t hh au t.m a . a.n ma rlo ogv rue ae. ls D ft o'A h rar mta g o h on u fa m la( on1 v5 1 s0 e m- x5 u u6 a s) l, da rr ei c- l4
s r e s b l a n t e t og-
nize both its sen s lu ival e l ya n d t r as np si lr ai tt iu oa nl . *" P—as ap L pe i ebc rrt s a $. r 1y 2. . 9J. 5 o . u rA n a llucid and PENN STATE UNIVERSITY l PR | ESS
Writing As Resistance: Four Women Confront-
The Worth of Women ing the Holocaust: Edith Stein, Simone Weil, Anne
Wherein Is Clearly Revealed Their Nobility Frank, Etty Hillesum by Rachel Feldhay Brenner is a
MODE a Rnd A T Th Aeir FSu Ope Nri Tor Eit y ( t Mo OM Den ESTA POZZA) Jm eo wv ii sn hg wac oc mou enn t c ao uf g ht th e in l i f te h, e w Ho or lk o c aa un sd t . e “t Bh ric es n n o ef r four
reveal[s] the essential connection between writing,
sic Renaissance convention of the literary dialogue. . . . Paints resistance and dedication to life in the face of absolute
a vivid picture of yesteryear, an era whose themes ring true evil...[and] how each of these women chose to bear
today."—Kirkus Reviews witness to an ethic of compassion amidst a nightmare
*Paper $17.95 of brutality.” —Alan L. Berger. Advertised in the
*Cloth edition available Feminist Bookstore Network Fall Catalog. $26.50 dl,
0-271-01623-X.
í| THE
IN EARLY M OODTEHRESR/ E VUØRIOCPEE SERIES STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK
(SUNY)
THE UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO PRESS Of specialized interest: Compelling Knowledge:
5801 South E hll ti ts p :A //v wen wu we, . p rC eh si sc .uag cho, i c aI gll oin .eo di us 60637 A Feminist Proposal for an Epistemology of the
Cross, Mary Solberg. $18.95 pb, 0-7914-3380-3.****
November /December 1997 112
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsm
iPP
TEACHER'S COLLEGE PRESS
Confronting Sexual Harassment: What I have to admit, I do like it when University of
Schools and Colleges Can Do by Judith Berman Chicago re-issues articles previously published in
Brandenburg is one of those books that should be Signs in a single volume based on a particular theme.
placed in the hands of administrators, counselors, It’s nice to have all that information in one convenient
and educators interested in creating safe learning volume. Like Signs, though, the work is extremely
environments for students and faculty. Not only academic and perhaps not of much interest to the
does this book contain information on how to con- casual reader or those outside the field in question.
front sexual harassment and create policy, it also History and Theory: Feminist Research, Debates,
includes suggestions for modeling ways for Contestations, edited by Barbara Laslett, Ruth-Ellen
students to deal with sexual harassment both in Joeres, et al., organizes feminist theoretical debates on
school and in day-to-day life. Most helpful are the historical research around issues of political economy
examples of sexual harassment policies. $18.95 pb, and class, the “body” as material and discursive, and
0-8077-3590-6.* the power of language. $22.50 pb, 0-226-46932-8;
$37.50 cl, -46930-1.****
Those with strong academic poetry and/or liter-
ary sections will want to include Forms of Expansion:
Recent Long Poems by Women by Lynn Keller. Keller
UNIVERSITY OF examines the poetry of Judy Grahn, Marilyn Hacker,
CALIFORNIA PRESS Susan Howe, Sharon Dubiago, and others, revealing
It’s fun when we have an opportunity to see diverse traditions and feminist concerns. $18.95 pb,
matriarchal animal behavior — especially if it 0-226-42971-7.****
informs how humans can and do interact with each New edition: The Battered Child, edited by
other. Bonobo: The Forgotten Ape by Frans de Waal Mary Edna Helfer, Ruth Kempe, and Richard
may have initially been passed over by feminist Krugman. Fifth edition, revised and expanded. $45 dl,
book buyers because of it’s strong emphasis on natu- 0-226-32627-6.
ral history and science. But look again. If you have a Collected Letters of a Renaissance Feminist, by
gender issues section, this study of bonobos could Laura Cereta and edited by Diana Robin, furnishes a
go there as well. The bonobo, least known of the detailed portrait of an individual woman with
great apes, is a female-centered, egalitarian species enduring feminist concerns. $19.95 pb, 0-226-10013-
that has been dubbed the “make-love-not-war” pri- 8; $45 cl, -10011-1.
mate by specialists. In bonobo society, females form Of related interest: The Worth of Women:
alliances to intimidate males, and sexual behavior Wherein Is Clearly Revealed Their Nobility and
(including same sex sexuality) replaces aggression Their Superiority to Men, by Moderata Fonte
and serves many social functions. The species’ most edited by Virginia Cox. $17.95 pb, 0-226-25682-0; $45
striking achievement is sensitivity to others. It has cl, -25681-2.***
great pictures, too. Also see FBN Vol. 20 #2, page 40, Of additional interest: The Story I Tell Myself:
for Carol's rave. $39.95 cl, 0-520-20535-9.*** A Venture in Existentialist Autobiography by Hazel
Now in paper: A Woman Scorned: Acquaintance E. Barnes. Hazel Barnes is best known for introduc-
Rape on Trial (with a new preface), Peggy Reeves ing French Existentialism to Americans through her
Sanday. $14.95, 0-520-21092-1.** translation of Sartre's Being and Nothingness. “In The
Volume 20 Number 4 113 November /December 1997
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Story I Tell Myself, Barnes provides critical insight national offices, promoting interracial cooperation as
into the ʻexperience of women who chose to pursue the key to racial justice. $29.95 cl, 0-8203-189-2.**
careers in the period between Virginia Woolf and
Betty Friedan’.... Her humane reflections on relation- UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS PRESS
ships (gay and otherwise), and aging are soothing.” Academic Couples: Problems and Promises,
—Kirkus. Advertised in the Feminist Bookstore edited by Marianne Ferber and Jane Loeb, explores
Network Fall Catalog. $29.95 cl, 0-226-03732-0.** how the careers and lives of academic couples differ
Of special interest: The People’s Lobby: Organ- from those of other academics — advantages/
izational Innovation and the Rise of Interest Group disadvantages, problems /opportunities. Couples in-
Politics in the United States, 1890-1925, Elisabeth S. clude those who are Black, white, married,
Clemens. $19.95 pb, 0-226-10993-3; $58 cl, -10992-5.*** unmarried, and same sex. $19.95 pb, 0-252-06619-7.***
l4 UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN PRESS
| As part of their Poets on Poetry series, Carol
UNIVERSITY OF GEORGIA 1 PRESS M Auu ts ok be i o gh ras a p hc yon , t r ai nb du t e td h e W So hm ape en oa fn d t h P eo e St er ly f: . T Mr uu st kh e,
Grace Towns Hamilton and the Politics of points out that in the present climate of truth-telling,
Southern Change by Lorraine Nelson. Spritzer is a autobiography, and testimony, the positioning of the
biographical and historical look at an African self as autobiographical referent in poetry has become
American woman instrumental in the struggle for central to the reading of poetry by women. In this way,
racial equality. Serving in the Georgia legislature from the poems of “testimony” have overshadowed the
1965-1984, Hamilton exercised considerable power as diverse variety and range of poems by women.
a leader in the Black struggle for local, state, and Muske illustrates a split in women’s poetry between
Subscribe!
Name
Business Name or Affiliation
Address
CityP/State/hZip one Fax
Email
[1 1 year — $70.* Check enclosed. [J Publicist [J General independent
[D 1 year — $75. Bill us. [D Alternative/political
[H Plus $23 for international postage. [O Writer [H Spiritual, Wiccan, New Age
[H Plus $10 for Canadian postage. [O Other
[J Half year — $35. Bookstores:
[H Sample copy — $6. Periodicals: [ [J H W e M h uav lte i pon le e s t lo ore c a o tn il oy ns: # of stores:
I am/We are: Is your focus primarily. Owned by:
[J Bookseller (see also column 3) [J Feminist H women DH men O both
[H Publisher [H Lesbian
[H Periodical [H Lesbian & Gay ____% of stock by/for/about women
[H Librarian [H Gay ____% of staff are women
Year opened: 19 <
tea.
November /December 1997 Volume 20 Number 4
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsSOONI
wP
those whose self stood as representative of truth or exhibited works in both Paris and New York. She was
moral narrative, and those who continued to write as also a woman who preferred art, activism, and adven-
if the truth were fiction. For women writing poetry ture to motherhood and marriage. Viewpoints and
critiques of her work and life vary, but The Story of
an important point of reference. $13.95 pb, 0-472- Rose O'Neill: An Autobiography, edited by Miriam
06624-2; $39.50 cl, -09624.** Formanek-Brunell, exemplifies what happens to
“bohemian” or independent women in historical
studies. This is of interest to feminist historians and
biographers but also an interesting read for those who
like good biography. $24.95 cl, 0-8262-1106-2.*
UNIVERSITY OF Of interest: The Bedquilt and Other Stories by
MINNESOTA PRESS Dorothy Canfield Fisher, edited with introduction
Third Wave Agenda: Being a Feminist, Doing and afterward by Mark Madigan. $16.95 pb, 0-8262-
Feminism, edited by Leslie Heywood and Jennifer 1140-2.*
Drake. Feminists born between the years of 1964 and UNIVERSITY OF
1973 look back at the accomplishments and failures NEBRASKA PRESS
of the past and plan for the challenges of the future.
Drawing on the submerged histories of other femi- Literature from University of Nebraska: Breathe
nisms, including Black feminism, womanism, and Something Nice: Stories, Emily Hammond ($13 pb,
working-class feminism, these writers explore, 0-87417-293-4, *); and A History of the Garden:
among other current issues, popular music, interra- Poems, Katherine Coles ($10 pb, 0-87417-298-5, *).
cial coalitions, and tensions between individual
ambitions and collective action. Advertised in the
Feminist Bookstore Network Fall Catalog. $17.95 pb,
0-8166-3005-4.
The Forgotten Queens of Islam by Fatima UNIVERSITY OF NEVADA PRESS
Mernissi. Though Islamic tradition holds that no Wynema: A Child of the Forest, the only novel
Muslim state has ever been governed by a woman, by S. Alice Callahan, was originally published in 1891
Mernissi discovered female rulers existed, but that the and is the first novel known to have been written by
proof has been ignored. Recovering the stories of 15 a woman of American Indian descent. Set against the
queens, this exploration tells how they acceded to the sweeping and often tragic cultural changes that af-
throne, how they governed and exercised their power, fected southeastern native peoples during the late
and how their forgotten reigns influence the way poli- 19th century, it tells the story of a lifelong friendship
tics is practiced in Islam today. Advertised in the between two women from vastly different back-
Feminist Bookstore Network Fall Catalog. $16.95 pb, grounds — Wynema Harjo, a Muscogee Indian, and
0-8166-2439-9. Genevieve Weir, a Methodist teacher from a genteel
Southern family. $9.95 pb, 0-8032-6378-3.**
UNIVERSITY OF MISSOURI PRESS Of related interest: Some Went West by Dorothy
I'm a bit too young to remember Kewpie dolls, Johnson describes the great Western experience of a
butIhave heard about them. Apparently, their creator, number of 19th-century women of widely different
Rose O'Neill, was an accomplished artist who had situations and fates. $10 pb, 0-8032-7598-6.**
Volume 20 Number 4 115 November /December 1997
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
UNIVERSITY OF Of specialized interest: Gender and Fascism in
NORTH CAROLINA PRESS Modern France, edited by Melanie Hawthorne and
Radium Girls: Women and Industrial Health Richard Golsan. $19.95 pb, 0-87451-814-8; $35 c|,
Reform, 1910-1935 by Claudia Clark is an example of -812-1. (Imprint of Dartmouth College Press.)****
a doctoral thesis turned into something useful to a
larger audience. It recounts the experiences of a group
wof a t cw ho m fe acn e s w ao nr dk e r ins s th ri ur med e n t to da ip alp sl y w hlu om i fn oo uu ns d p ta hin emt -to ! |
selves among the first victims of radium poisoning. And a few that got lost in the shuffle...
The thesis then makes connections to social and politi-
cal factors including workplace control, government DUKE UNIVERSITY PRESS
intervention, and industry-backed medical research. The first novel to be published in English by this
It’s still a pretty academic book but perhaps of interest celebrated Mexican author, Señora Rodríguez and
to those interested in ecological debates and worker Other Worlds by Martha Cerda is a collection of
safety. $17.95 pb, 0-8078-4640-6.*** vignettes, anecdotes, and character sketches that
reflect her unique interpretation of magical realism
UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA PRESS and explore people’s relationships to each other —
African Feminism: The Politics of Survival in which, in Señora Rodríguez’ world, transcend time
Sub-Saharan Africa, edited by Gwendolyn Mikell, and international boundaries. This book defies cate-
gathers together several essays that illustrate the femi- gorization in the realm of literary genres — it is in turn
nism emerging in Africa — one that is distinctly tragic and comic, fantastical, and realistic. Cerda’s
heterosexual, pronatal, and concerned about issues stories are often unbelieveable but always interesting.
such as access to land, right to own property, living Señora Rodríguez and Other Worlds is reminiscent
wages and safe working conditions, heath care, and of Sandra Cisneros’ House on Mango Street or Woman
power. What becomes clear is that African feminism Hollering Creek — a collection of stories that, although
is radically different than what has developed in the they may not seem related to each other, raise ques-
West. $19.95 pb, 0-8122-1580-X.*** tions about the power of language and its ability to
I used to be a “theologian” so I know I'm in affect reality. $12.95 pb, 0-8223-1890-3.
trouble when the title of a book sends me to the —Danielle Bauter/FBN
dictionary. Sacred Fictions: Holy Women and Hagi-
ography in Late Antiquity by Lynda Coon looks at GUILFORD PRESS
the biography of women saints in antiquity to reveal Women’s Growth in Diversity: More Writings
the paradoxical portrayal of women’s roles in early from the Stone Center, edited by Judith V. Jordan,
Christian centuries. I'm not sure if my fascination follows Stone Center's Women’s Growth in Connection,
with the introduction to this book triggers memories which helped shape a revolutionary approach to the
of my upbringing as a Catholic or what. This is a **** study of contemporary women’s lives, and has 45,000
book but Catholics (or even ex-Catholics) still copies in print. The Stone Center at Wellesley College
intrigued by the lives of saints might find it interest- is recognized as a leading forum for the exploration
ing. $39.95 cl, 0-8122-3371-9. of the varied and distinctive issues that affect women
and their psychological development. In this second
UNIVERSITY PRESS OF NEW ENGLAND compilation of writings, renowned teachers and
il cuore: the heart: New and Selected Poems therapists associated with the Stone Center devote
documents chronologically the last three decades of attention to the ways that diversity can enhance rela-
Kathleen Fraser’s poetry. Her use of language innova- tionships between women and between women and
tion as a feminist strategy, her inventiveness, and men. “A brilliant and essential book, grounded in
unusual courage have established Fraser as an impor- compassion and rooted in the real world of female
tant experimental writer. $16.95 pb, 0-8195-2245-7; $35 e1xp-er5ie7nc2e.”3 —0H-a2rr0iet6 -Le2rn.e r , — Ph.JD. T$1 8. 95O:pb,
c], -2244-9. (Imprint of Wesleyan University Press.)**
November /December 1997 116 Volume 20 Number 4
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
ALGONQUIN
¡Yo! by Julia Alvarez. Yolanda, or Yo, is resented by
ADDISON WESLEY friends and family for using their lives as material for
Working Fathers: New Strategies for Balancing her books. In this entrancing novel by the author of How
Work and Family by James Levine and Todd Pittinsky. the Garcia Girls Lost Their Accents the “characters” get the
Wow — a book that looks at working fathers in the chance to tell their side of the story. “The voices of Yo's
same light that most folks think of the term “working family and friends are magical...the writing is animated
mothers.” Wonderful. $23, 0-201-14938-9. and wonderfully imaginative; the characters jump off
When Mothers Work: Loving Our Children the page.” —Kirkus. Advertised in the Feminist Book-
Without Sacrificing Ourselves by Joan Peters. A look store Network Fall Catalog. $18.95 cl, 1-56512-163-5.
at the emotional and psychological restructuring My Life as a Boy: A Woman's Story by Kim
essential for all mothers today. Offers hands-on strate- Chernin. How did Chernin, a wife and mother in her
gies for mothers struggling to balance work, family thirties, begin turning into a boy — a boy full of
and self. “Good mothering does not require mothers to mischief and recklessness who acts before he thinks?
focus so intensely on their children that they give up This book explores what could happen if the person
crucial parts of their identities.” $24, 0-201-14794-6. who offers passion and intimacy happens to be of the
East to the Dawn: The Life of Amelia Earhart by same gender as the person who seeks it. Advertised in
Susan Butler. A new biography of the first lady of the Feminist Bookstore Network Fall Catalog. $16.95
aviation. The most comprehensive account to date of c1, 1-56512-163-5.
Earhart’s remarkable life: as fashion plate, lecturer,
educator, and of course, pilot. $25, 0-201-31144-5. ATLANTIC MONTHLY
Generations: A Century of Women Speak
About Their Lives by Myriam Miedzian and Alisa
4il: Malinovich, foreword by Gloria Steinem. “An
extraordinary record of the lives of American women
Rebirth of the Goddess by Carol P. Christ. over the course of the 20th century. Written in their
Historically, we have learned about the masculine own words — often moving, always enlightening,
God while the patriarchal religion has symbolically Generations tells us both how far we have come and
slayed the Goddess. “Ultimately, Rebirth of the how far we have yet to go.” —Ruth Sidel. Women of
Goddess reveals that the Goddess is the power of every ethnic group and social background trace the
intelligent embodied love that is the ground of all profound changes that have occurred in their lives.
being — and all beings are interdependent in the web Advertised in the Feminist Bookstore Network Fall
of life — and offers a healing theology for dismantling Catalog. $27.50 cl, 0-87113-687-3.
patriarchy, building community, and living spirit-
ually.” $24 cl, 0-201-14398-4. BALLANTINE
— Barb Dubee, Heartland Books/Winthrop WA Romancing the Shadow: Illuminating the Dark
and Dorothy Holland Side of the Soul by Connie Zweig and Steve Wolf.
Volume 20 Number 4 117 November /December 1997
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
To Be an Anchor in the Storm: A Guide for
Families and Friends of Abused Women by Susan
Brewster. ($12.95, 0-345-41719-4.) A hands-on guide
written for people who want to help a battered friend
1850-1979 or loved one. A comprehensive education on domestic
violence: how to recognize the signs of abuse, handle
DACAL your own negative feelings, become an effective
advocate, deal with the batterer, and more.
The River Where Blood Is Born by Sandra
Jackson-Opoku. ($25, 0-345-39514-X, One World.) “In
the tradition of Gloria Naylor and Isabel Allende, a
mystical novel that chronicles the generations of one
Hear the voices of family’s remarkable women. Takes us on a mythic
journey along the river of one family’s history, from
African American ancient Africa into today’s America.”
women preachers Kinfolks by Kristin Lattany. ($10.95, 0-345-
41720-8, One World.) Now in paper. A Black First
who transformed Wives Club. Funny and poignant; a touching novel
their world. about two African American women, their two chil-
dren and the romantic past that they share.
Now in paper: In Before Women Had Wings by
Connie May Fowler, Bird Jackson fancies herself the
girlfriend of a dime store picture of Jesus, and
ISBN 0-7879-0918-1 embarks upon a spiritual quest for salvation, as the
Hardcover $25.00 chaos of her home life plunges her into a stony
silence. 1996 Southern Book Critics Circle Award.
$12, 0-449-91144-6. —DH, LM
2S S S anJ FO raS ncS iscE o Y » - wB wwA .joS ssS ey b asP s.cU omBLISHERS BANTAM DOUBLEDAY DELL
Distributed to the trade by Simon & Schuster In Winona’s Web: A Novel of Discovery,
Priscilla Cogan presents psychologist Dr. Meggie
O'Connor, who has left her hectic New York life for
($27.95, 0-345-41739-9.) These Jungian psycho- scenic Leelanau Peninsula on Lake Michigan. Soon,
therapists offer modern parables for reconnecting Winona Pathfinder, an elderly Sioux medicine woman
with our dark sides. who has announced to her stunned family that she
Foggy Mountain Breakdown, and Other Stories intends to die in two months, becomes O'Connor's
by Sharyn McCrumb. ($22.50, 0-345-41493-4.) Chilling new patient. “Cogan is a masterful storyteller... A
suspense alternates with evocative character portraits revealing look into the world of Native American
and compelling narratives that embrace the Southern beliefs and spirituality, written with impressive
Appalachian locales and themes of McCrumb’s knowledge and respect.” —New Phoenix. $12 pb,
wonderful writing. 0-385-49048-8, Doubleday.
Pope Joan by Donna Woolfolk Cross. ($12.95, Do They Hear You When You Cry by Fauziya
0-345-41626-0.) Now in paper. A story of triumph and Kasinga with Layli Bashir and Gini Kopecky. This true
tragedy, of an extraordinary heroine whose existence story of persecution, friendship and triumph, chron-
has been denied for a thousand years. She disguised icles the struggles of Fauziya, who flees her African
herself as a man and monk, and rose to be named the homeland to escape female genital mutilation, only to
Pope. “An irresistible tale.” —CS/FBN. Advertised in be locked up in American prisons for 16 months.
the Feminist Bookstore Network Fall Catalog. $24.95 cl, 0-385-31832-4.
November /December 1997 118 Volume 20 Number 4
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
lal „L.I
Perfidia by Judith Rossner. ($23.95 cl, 0-385- conflicts in the spread of digital communication —
48427-5; A Nan A. Talese book.) An electrifying story of between personal privacy and society's interest in
a mother and a daughter which reveals the complex and openness, between security and freedom, and between
intense undercurrents of hostility and competition that and commerce and community. $25 cl, 0-7679-0011-1,
often flow beneath mother-daughter relationships. Broadway.
Everyday Revolutionaries: Working Women Vegetarian Cooking for Everyone by Deborah
and the Transformation of American Life by Sally Madison. ($35 cl, 0-7679-0014-6, Bantam.) A compre-
Helgesen. ($24.95 cl, 0-385-48025-3, Doubleday, hensive, beautifully illustrated and innovative new
January.) Told through the voices and experiences of cookbook, from the founding chef of the legendary
working women who have long been balancing work, Greens restaurant in San Francisco and award-winning
children, community and their spiritual lives, this author of The Greens Cookbook and The Savory Way.
book is a clear-eyed look at the changes in society Notes from an Incomplete Revolution by
brought about by the entrée of women into the work Meredith Maran. For many, feminism of the 90s is a far
force. In a rich portrait of one Chicago suburb, Sally cry from feminism of the past. Maran touches on the
Helgesen argues that women — not computers, not many roles we play today, often with humor but always
pop culture, not the end of the Cold War — are the with feeling, and addresses the burdens our successes
driving force in the transformation of America. have brought. Women today will feel relief, sisterhood,
Married Women Who Love Women by Carren validation, pain — everything that this delightful book
Strock. ($23.95 cl, 0-385-48825-4, Doubleday, January.) can give. $22.95 cl, 0-553-09952-3, Bantam.
After 27 years of a happy — and ongoing — marriage, Now in paper: Light Years by Le Anne Schreiber.
the author fell in love with another woman. In this ($11, 0-385-48943-9; Anchor.) “This is spare and
book she interviews over 100 women of diverse back- intense writing that speculates about why we are the
grounds, as well as their husbands and children, and way we are, and how we are formed by our own
shows that this situation is not as uncommon as some thoughts. Few have either the aptitude or the oppor-
would believe. tunity for such reflection. To share it is a rare
Foreign Correspondence: A Pen Pals Journey privilege.” —Publishers Weekly. (Note: Le Anne
from Down Under to All Over by Geraldine Brooks. Schreiber was the first female editor of the New York
($22.95 cl, 0-385-48269-8; Anchor, January.) A memoir Times sports section and then became the deputy
of the author's idyllic girlhood in the middle-class editor of the New York Times Book Review.)
Western suburbs of Sydney, Australia in the 60s and
70s. As a teen, Brooks (Nine Parts of Desire) formed pen ıl;
pal friendships with correspondents in France, the
Middle East and New Jersey. This led her to a career
as a foreign correspondent, and as a young woman My Sister's Bones by Cathi Hanauer. ($10.95 tp,
she decided to track down the pen pals that had 0-385-31704-2, Delta.) Cathi Hanauer strips away the
enriched her life and shaped her very being. The veneer of a “perfect” family to reveal the subtle cruel-
publisher compares this book to Jill Ker Conway's The ties and concessions of love, and creates a memorable
Road from Coorain. portrait of a remarkable young woman who must
Release 2.0: A Design for Living in the Digital abandon the safety net of illusion as she reaches for
Age by Esther Dyson. A view of the new digital adulthood. “Cathi Hanauer in her elegant and simple
society providing some ways to think about its con- first novel, My Sister's Bones, works a miracle. She
sequences in our lives. Dyson addresses fundamental gives power and dignity to the subject of anorexia and
Volume 20 Number 4 119 November /December 1997
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
presents us with a book that is funny and idiosyncratic Bound Feet and Western Dress: A Memoir by
too.” —The Village Voice. Pang-Mei Natasha Chang. Shows independent women
The Witch in Every Woman: Reawakening the struggling to emerge from centuries of customs and
Magical Nature of the Feminine to Heal, Protect, | duty, and reveals the power of storytelling itself, as the
Create and Empower by Laurie Cabot and Jean Mills. | greataunt confides her innermost dreams and demons
An empowering book for women, with spells, magi- | to the author. $12.95, 0-385-47964-6, Anchor.
cal recipes and Celtic lore about reawakening the Alias Grace by Margaret Atwood. Takes us
ancient wisdom within, from renowned author and back in time and into the life of one of the most
HDighe l Ptriaes t esTs rLaaurdie e C.a b oti. s $ 1 2.s95e, r 0-v38i5n-31g64 9 -8a, n oltoirfioeus wsomeenn t ofe nthce e 1 9t ha fcentteurry. Gara ce sMtariknst in a lunatic
Grandmother’s Gift of Memories: An African- | asylum, for her involvement in the murders of her
American Family Keepsake by Danita Rountree | employer and his mistress. Another marvelous book
Green. A keepsake to record family facts and history | from one of my [Dorothy’s] favorite authors. $12,
— illustrated to evoke the rich tradition of quilt 0-385-49044-5, Anchor.
making. Designed to be filled by the grandmother of Kissing God Goodbye: Poems 1991-1996 by
a baby. $16.95, 0-553-06746-X, Broadway. June Jordan. Jordan, the author of 23 books and
Feminists Before Their Time
Lucy's Eyes and
MLu ac ryA g' as r eB ty 's e s D ra an gd on T BM h ye a Gr L iig sv eea ls lr e e o Pft o ' ts t t h e reD Vr ia rgg io n n Saints
$17.95 hardcover
The Lives of the Virgin Saints Wonderfully told and delicately
illustrated with marvelous original
watercolors, these stories of 13
€ a e LIN inspiring tribute to fvir eg min s aai ln ets ar se t a r p eo nten gt t an hd .
Goblin Market
E GATTI A Tale of Two Sisters
By Christina Rossetti
hy Paintings by Dante Gabriel Rossetti
E Afterword by Joyce Carol Oates
Éo CHRISTINA | $14.95 hardcover
ROSSE! A beautiful keepsake edition of
Christina Rossetti’s poetic master-
2 A LL tion Ioafefrers a startling g pielcei, m this psenssuoeus ta leo off seduc-
CHRONICLE BOOKS the depths of the Victorian psyche.
WWW.CHRONBOOKS.COM
TO ORDER CALL 800.722.6657
November /December 1997 120 Volume 20 Number 4
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms: Feminist Bookstore News
SN
EN ALA lal Ý. zl
recipient of the Lila Wallace Reader’s Digest Writers was revolutionary for explaining how the psychologi-
Award, writes about love, loss, feminism, family, cal development of women reflects the social and
politics, and civil disobedience, and explores the political culture in which we live — now it’s in a
universal chord that ties us all together. $12, 0-385- second edition for a new generation of women. $12.50
49032-1, Anchor. pb, 0-8070-2909-2.
The Hand I Fan With by Tina Ansa. An abso- New in paper: Choosing to Lead, Constance H.
lutely delicious love story. Author of Ugly Ways and Buchanan. Rather than blaming women for a “crisis
Baby of the Family. $11.95, 0-385-47601-9, Anchor. in the nation’s values” the public can benefit from a
Seeing the Crab: A Memoir of Dying Before I redefining of American values and the leadership of
Do by Christina Middlebrook conveys the physical women. $15 pb, 0-8070-2003-6.
and emotional ordeal of coming to terms with her own Cravings: A Sensual Memoir, Jyl Lynn Felman.
imminent death from metastasized breast cancer. This title will be in the Feminist Bookstore Network
$12.95, 0-385-48865-3, Anchor. Fall Catalog, so stock up! I got an advance copy and it
My Mother/My Self: The Daughter’s Search for looks good. The author of Hot Chicken Wings writes a
Identity by Nancy Friday. 20th anniversary edition, memoir of growing up the youngest in a Dayton, Ohio
includes new introduction. $12.95, 0-385-32015-9, Jewish family, a family which couldn't talk about
Delta Trade. feelings. She remembers her obsessive love for her
Hard Questions, Heart Answers: Sermons and mother, the taste of her cooking, and the grief she felt
Speeches by Bernice King. Bernice is the youngest when her mother died. $21 cl, 0-8070-7074-2.
daughter of Martin Luther and Coretta Scott King, an Making More Waves: New Asian American
ordained minister and an attorney. $11, 0-7679-0037-5, Writing edited by Elaine H. Kim, Lilia V. Villanueva
Broadway. —DH, LM, BD, JT and Asian Women United of California, with a fore-
word by Jessica Hagedorn. The title doesn’t specify
women but this is a collection of writings by women,
Zil: l a on gd y i wt a sw i pll u b a ll is so h e db e i nin 1 9o 8u 9r , F Mal al k iC na gt a l Wog a. v eT s.h e $ 1 f 8i r s pt b , anthol-
BEACON 0-8070-59137.
Note: Beacon Press titles are now distributed by Walk Tall: Affirmations for People of Color.
Ballantine Books and combine for discount with their Readings draw on traditions of Native, Asian Ameri-
other books. can and Latino communities as well as African
The Healing Connection, Jean Baker Miller. An American. Martin Luther King Jr.'s birthday and Cinco
analysis of how women’s relationships shape psych- de Mayo are included as well as the lesser known June-
ological health, how our connections lead to teenth. The catalog says this book sold 100,000 copies
psychological growth. $24 cl, 0-8070-2920-3. through a specialty house. $12 pb, 0-8070-2811-8.
Aunt Carmen’s Book of Practical Saints, Pat Rooted Against the Wind, Gloria Wade-Gayles.
Mora. The recent National Endowment for the Arts New in paperback, this memoir by the author of
Fellowship poet (one of an endangered species), Pat Pushed Back to Strength is about racism and sexism
Mora models these poems on her elderly aunt and her from a spiritual perspective. $12 pb, 0-8070-0939-3.
prayers to saints. Catalog says national advertising Also new in paper is Life in a Day, Doris
and author appearances. $20 cl, 0-8070-7206-0. Grumbach. I did not sell this in hardback, but will
Twenty years ago Toward a New Psychology of try this meditation on age and memory in paper. $10
Women by Jean Baker Miller and Irene Pierce Stiver pb, 0-8070-7089-0.
Volume 20 Number 4 121 November / December 1997
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Apocalypse Now and Then, Catherine Keller. ($12.50, 0-8070-0433-2.) Shows that popular nostalgia
Called a “feminist guide to the world,” this got some for the “traditional” family takes a heavy toll on real
good reviews from scholars Carol Adams and Sallie families and makes a strong case for protecting family
McFague on its publication in hardback. $16 pb, diversity.
0-8070-6779-2. Equal Value: An Ethical Approach to Economics
Fertile Ground: Women, Earth and the Limits of and Sex by Carol Robb. ($14, 0-8070-6505-6.) An inci-
Control, Irene Diamond. A call to women to recognize sive exploration of economic discrimination against
the dangers of technological control over our bodies women, and the policy and ethical reforms that could
and over the earth. Foreword by Starhawk. Diamond create a more just future. —DH, BD, JT
also wrote Reweaving the World. $14 pb, 0-8070-6773-3.
—Patty Callaghan, BERKLEY
Brigit Books Best of Sisters in Crime edited by Marilyn
Woman the Hunter by Mary Zeiss Stange. This is Wallace. Mary Higgins Clark, Diane Mott Davidson,
a compelling, provocative, and spiritual look at one Sue Grafton, Sara Paretsky, and many more in one
woman's experience hunting. Yes, hunting. While handsome volume! $21.95 cl, 0-425-16060-2.
women have hunted for thousands of years, we have Stumbling Toward Enlightenment by Barbara
forgotten that millions still do. Woman the Hunter Lewis-Marco. A unique and deeply inspirational
asserts that if we view ourselves as “a part of nature... book that takes us from crisis to understanding. A
then hunting takes on symbolic value for us all.” beautiful gift for yourself or anyone you love. $14,
Though fascinating and thought-provoking, this book 0-399-52348-0, Perigee.
might not be for everyone. $25 cl, 0-8070-4638-8. The Pull of the Moon by Elizabeth Berg. Fifty-
The End of the Novel of Love by Vivian Gornick. year-old Nan leaves behind home and husband to
Twelve essays explore the writings of Jean Rhys, Willa take a second look at life and learn how to live it all
Cather, and Clover Adams, to name a few. Gornick over again. $6.50 pb, 0-515-12089-8, Jove. DH
asserts that romantic pairings as salvation can no
longer make great literature. Are we becoming too
cynical or are we just asserting our rights as individual 1l:
women, fully complete without expecting or accepting
happily-ever-after? Interesting look at literature’s CARROLL & GRAF
dilemma — love vs. self. $20 cl, 0-8070-6222-7. Flowers for Mei-Ling by Lorraine Lachs.
Point Last Seen: A Woman Tracker’s Story is the Chinese by birth, Eurasian by blood, Mei-Ling’s
true story of Hannah Nyala’s survival and the extraordinary life is a mirror of our time. Born in
empowering skill of tracking that finally brought her China in 1949, the year of the red army’s entry into
spiritual and physical safety. After seven years of Beijing, she grows to womanhood amid the violent
physical and psychological abuse at the hands of her dogma and numbing brutality unleashed by the cul-
husband, Nyala escaped with her two children. But tural revolution. $24 cl, 0-7867-0414-4.
they were still far from safe; Nyala’s ex-husband con- Deadly Women edited by Jan Grape, Dean
tinued to menace, threaten, and abuse them, and even James and Ellen Nehr. ($19.95, 0-7867-0468-3.) An
kidnapped the children on more than one occasion. oversized book to celebrate the large talents and
Nyala turned to the wilderness for spiritual survival huge appeal of women mystery writers. Contains
and used her self-taught tracking skills to join a articles by and about Mary Higgins Clark, Barbara
search-and-rescue team in a national state park where Michaels, Patricia Cornwell, Sara Paretsky, Marcia
s oh the e rd e v pe el oo pp le ed ’s t loh se t e cx hp ie ldrt ri es ne . t Uh la tt i m a al tlo ew lye ,d s hh ee r w t ao s f abin led Mmuller,y ansd t oteherrs.y Gr ea t l goiftv iteemr fsor. fe m—inistDH
to retrieve her own children as well. A must carry! $21
cl, 0-8070-7092-0. CAROL PUBLISHING GROUP
In the Name of the Family: Rethinking Family Whoopi Goldberg: Her Journey from Poverty
Values in the Postmodern Age by Judith Stacey. to Mega Stardom by James Parish. ($22.50, 1-55972-
November /December 1997 122 Volume 20 Number 4
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
: I En
EAEL sL H
431-5.) From a school dropout and drug user, this meditation on medical culture: its rationality, its devo-
book follows Whoopi to stardom. Includes 24 pages tion, its authority — and its inelasticity when faced
of photographs. An interesting read — should be one with a culture such as the Hmong’s, which is not
hardback biography we can actually sell! —DH rational and does not acknowledge that authority.
Now in paper: Housekeeping by Marilynne
Robinson. ($11, 0-374-52518-8; Noonday.) After the
death of their mother, Ruth and Lucille are raised first
by their grandmother, then two comically fumbling
great-aunts, and finally Sylvie, the transient sister of
In A Child Out of Alcatraz Tara Ison paints a their mother. This is a beautiful, odd, dream-like
portrait of the life of a girl growing up on the prison novel — if you haven’t read it yet do so immediately!
isle of Alcatraz in the late 40s and early 50s. Olivia One of my [Lisa's] all-time favorite hand-sells.
experiences both the isolation of being the only child “Housekeeping is a quiet, humorous, beautiful book
her age and the dark shadows of her father’s work as filled with what I can only call the ecstasy of wisdom.
the violence and menace of a prison guard’s life slowly It turns eccentricity into poetry, praises the orphan in
envelops his family. Disturbing, dark, and original — each of us, transforms everyday life into a kind of
an awesome first novel. $22.95 cl, 0-571-19910-0. sacred myth. I think there are few novels published
Hers 2: Brilliant New Fiction by Lesbian Writers since mid-century to compare with Housekeeping
edited by Terry Wolverton (Bailey's Beads) with Robert for sheer perfection of language and for conveying
Drake is the second installment in the Hers series. This what it means to be human. It is a work of pure
collection of 21 stories is full of complex love affairs, grace.”—John Hawkes.
casual sex, intense emotions, and relationships of all A Whole Other Ball Game: Women’s Literature
kinds. Breast-cancer, ex-lovers of best friends, myste- on Women’s Sport edited by Joli Sandoz. ($13 pb,
rious new lovers, and other issues addressed in this 0-374-52521-8; Noonday.) A collection of short stories,
collection are relevant to all women today. Contribu- poems and novel excerpts that deal with all aspects of
tors include Mary Gaitskill, Judy Grahn, Gerry Gomez women’s competitive sports. Contributors include
Ppearalbeprge, ran.d C a0rla- T5om7as1o. - E1xp0en9siv9e 0at 9 $1-5.795. in JT T Ao dn ri i e nC nad e e R B ica hm , b a Mra a, r g C e a r Po il e r cA yn s h anaw d , E P lla et n G Gr ii lf cf hi rn i, st.
My Brother by Jamaica Kincaid. ($21 cl, 0-374-
FARRAR, STRAUS & GIROUX 21681-9.) Jamaica Kincaid’s brother Devon Drew died
The Spirit Catches You and You Fall Down: A of AIDS in 1996 at the age of 33. This is a searing,
Hmong Child, Her Doctors, and an American poetic and heartbreaking recounting of his life, as well
Tragedy by Anne Fadiman. ($23 cl, 0-374-26781-2.) as the story of Kincaid’s family on the island of
When three-month-old Lia Lee arrived in the emer- Antigua. My Brother is also available on audio,
gency room of a California hospital in the middle of unabridged and read by the author, from Penguin.
an epileptic seizure, her doctors felt confident of the ($24.95, 4 cassettes, 6 hours, 0-14-086737-6.)
best way to treat her: they prescribed anticonvulsants. Just As I Thought by Grace Paley. ($23 cl, 0-374-
Lia's parents, immigrants from a Laotian hilltribe, 18060-1.) Paley describes this book as “A collection of
called her illness gaug dab peg — the spirit catches you articles, reports and talks representing about thirty
and you fall down — and ascribed it to the wandering years of political and literary activity with a couple of
of her soul. According to their culture, performing occasional glances over my shoulder into disappear-
animal sacrifices was the way to heal Lia. A tragic ing family and childhood.”
Volume 20 Number 4 123 November /December 1997
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
The Smart Girl’s Guide to College: A Serious In the court at Kyoto in the Heian era, in The
Book Written by Women in College to Help You Pillow Boy of the Lady Onogoro by Alison Fell, Ono-
Make the Perfect College Choice edited by Cristina goro, poet and concubine of the general Motosuke, has
Page gives young women a source of advice that is a problem achieving orgasm. To overcome it, she hides
tailored specifically to their concerns when making blind Oyu, the stable boy, behind a screen at the head
the difficult choice of which school to attend. Each of her bed. While Motosuke makes love to Onogoro,
essay is written by a woman in college and provides Oyu arouses her by whispering wildly erotic stories in
perspectives on factors to consider from type of her ear. In addition to bringing her to orgasm, Oyu’s
school and location, to campus politics and social tales help Onogoro see her situation under the gener-
issues. The book also shows how to find out about al’s dominion more clearly and lead her to take action.
what the brochures and campus tours won't tell, “Fell’s identifiable lyric gifts reverberate throughout
including crime, sources of financial aid just for this...clever and elegantly erotic novel.” —Publishers
women, and the best college entrance exams for girls. Weekly (starred review). $12 pb, 0-15-600468-2. —JT
Savvy, hip and honest! I really enjoyed it! $12 pb,
0-374-52514-5. —LM, JT
ıl:
FOUR WALLS EIGHT WINDOWS
Women & Madness: 25th Anniversary Edition HARPERCOLLINS
by Phyllis Chesler. ($15, 1-56858-096-7.) A feminist Plain Seeing by Sandra Scofield. ($23 cl, 0-06-
classic — essential reading. Includes Chesler’s new 017342-4.) At the heart of Plain Seeing is the myth
inetrnodiucntiogn, l syhow i ngu hpow thtiso w o rkd raemtaeins! f ri—ght-DH of beautiful Emma Laura, whose Hollywood
dreams are destroyed by the birth of a child. Twenty-
GUILFORD PRESS five years later, that child, Lucy, is recovering from
a terrible injury when her lover and their daughter
Growing Up in a Lesbian Family by Fiona L. decide to leave. Lucy, whose whole life has been
Tasker and Susan Golombok. Interviews of grown haunted by her mother’s early death, flees to her
children born in heterosexual partnerships yet raised Aunt Opal in Texas to begin a quest to understand
in lesbian households hold appeal for many women, her mother’s young life. What she finds allows her
yet this book is not for the lay-person. Highly statisti- to face her perennial grief and begin to live a true
cal, this is a very academic book. It does contain and present life.
extremely pertinent and important information, yet it Why Are All the Black Kids Sitting Together in
is$n2't 6 li.g9ht5 r e adcinlg,. I t’1s -ju5st7 n2ot3 0fo-r 1 m7y0 c-of8fe.e t—able.BD the Cafeteria? And Other Conversations About Race
by Beverly Daniel Tatum, Ph.D. ($23 cl, 0-465-09127-X.)
HARCOURT BRACE Psychiatrist Beverly Tatum (Assimilation Blues: Black
Families in a White Community) presents the idea of race
In Women on Divorce: A Bedside Companion identity as a positive developmental factor and a vital
edited by Penny Kaganoff and Susan Spano, 14 component in the development of young people of
notable women writers share their experiences with color. Recognizing the unique challenges facing Black
d miv ao trc ee . sE ell le en c t G ioil nch . r is At l ic xon si Kde ar ts e st h e S cp hsy uc lh mol aog ny ao nf d Anne adolescents, she asserts it is all right, even necessary,
for these children to have a strong sense of belonging
Roiphe discuss the effect of the womens’ movement even if it requires a period of segregation.
on their marriages. Ann Patchett describes how she Nine Gates: Entering the Mind of Poetry by Jane
rebuilt her life after ending a strict Catholic marriage Hirshfield. ($20 cl, 0-06-017456-0.) In this collection of
in which death was (officially) the only way out. essays, Which is both a primer for the general reader
And Carol Shields argues that a long marriage can as well as a manual for the working writer, Jane
be “as complex, as potentially dynamic, and as open Hirshfield illuminates the craft and mind of poetry,
0to -1 5c -a 6t 0h 0a 4r 6s 2is - 3 .as the most shattering divorce.” $12 pb, a fn ord m s ah tio ow ns ip no e ct or ny t e mas p oa r ap ra yt h li ft eo . k Hn ao rw pele rd g ie s aa ln sd o trans-
November /December 1997 124 Volume 20 Number!
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
T = a
|
fl.
publishing The Lives of the Heart ($12 pb, 0-06- but skipping Chicken Soup for the Christian Soul as well
095169-9), Hirshfield’s fourth volume of poetry, to as the series they have for children called Chicken
coincide with the release of Nine Gates. Soup for Little Souls. (These may sell for many folks
Bird Girl and the Man Who Followed the Sun but just aren't our cup of soup...er...tea.) For horse
by Velma Wallis. ($12 pb, 0-06-097728-0; Harper- lovers, there’s Horse Sense and the Human Heart:
Perennial.) A retelling of an Athabaskan Indian What Horses Can Teach Us About Trust, Bonding,
legend by the author of Two Old Women. Previously Creativity, & Spirituality ($10.95, 1-55874-523-8).
available in an Epicenter hardcover edition. Also, from Robin Norwood, the author of Women
Now in paper: Heat Wave by Penelope Lively. Who Love Too Much, we get a new book called Why?
($12, 0-06-092855-7; HarperPerennial.) An intimate, A Guide to Answering Life’s Toughest Question
evocative novel of love and marital infidelity set dur- ($12.95, 1-55874-522-X).
ing a long, hot summer in the English countryside. We've created a new category in our bookstore
“The work is Jamesian...in its complexities and its called “Inspirational Stories.” This is where we put
carefulness.... A lovely, lovely novel.” —Fay Weldon. things like the chicken soup books, as well as books
For Troubling the Angels: Women Living with that tell an inspirational story but the authenticity of
HIV/AIDS Patti Lather and Chris Smithies observed which is in question (e.g., Mutant Message). We like the
and chronicled diverse support groups for women fact that the word “story” is a bit ambiguous so we are
diagnosed with HIV. These women share the common not making any kind of statement about “truth.” We
b afo fn ed c t so f t hli ev irin g l iv w esi .t h T hH eI V a/ uA thID oS r s a n wd e a vd ee s c sr ti ab te is th ico sw a nit d hqaveu tihtesee bo okws neealrl .af f ir—matiTon r bouokds, y and thMey i dlols
fact boxes throughout the text that place these Antigone Books
women’s words in the greater context of the
HIV/AIDS epidemic as it affects its fastest growing
popul a Ft oio rn . A $ 1 R6 e v p ob lu, t i0 o- n8 1 o3 f3 - 9 T0 h1 e6 i- r8 , O W wnes : t v Vie ow ic. es of Zili l
Women in Soviet History editors Barbara Alpern HENRY HOLT
Engel and Anastasia Posadskaya-Vanderbeck inter- Rachel Carson: Witness for Nature by Linda
viewed eight Russian women about family life, work, Lear. ($35 cl, 0-8050-3427-7.) A comprehensive bio-
sexual relations, marriage and divorce, childbirth and graphy of Rachel Carson, which also gives readers a
childbearing, legalized abortion and underground more thorough understanding of how America’s
abortion after abortion was outlawed in 1936. This environmental policies evolved.
book illuminates the harsh reality of women’s daily life About Inside Ms. 25 Years of the Magazine and
in the Soviet Union as well as reveals the accomplish- the Feminist Movement Gloria Steinem writes,
ments made possible by the expanded opportunities “Mary Thom is that rarest of writers, an eyewitness to
that the new Soviet government provided for women. history who puts the reader into events. She is also a
Translated by Sona Hoisington. $18 pb, 0-8133-3366-0; journalist who sees through the eyes of others. I was
$65 c], -3365-2, Westview, December. —LM, JT present during most of these events, but I, too, have
learned lessons about the past and future from this
HEALTH COMMUNICATIONS important book.” Inside Ms. is a unique insider’s look
Once again, Health Communications is serving into the history of this groundbreaking institution and
up lots of chicken soup. We're picking up Chicken its remarkable editors and contributors. “Inspira-
Soup for the Mother’s Soul ($12.95, 1-55874-460-6) tional, informative, and infinitely readable. Thom has
Volume 20 Number 4 November /December 1997
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
made the original Ms. live again, and aren't we lucky!” feminist intellectual bell hooks’ powerful account of
—Rebecca Walker (7o Be Real). $25 cl, 0-8050-3732-2. growing up in the South which details the unfolding of
Wounds of Passion: A Writing Life by bell hooks. female creativity and one strong-spirited child’s
“An astute eye and courageous spirit.” —The New York journey toward becoming a writer.
Times. With the same evocative prose as her highly When Women Call the Shots: The Developing
acclaimed girlhood memoir, Bone Black, bell hooks tells Power and Influence of Women in Television and
of her coming of age as a woman writer. From bitter- Film by Linda Seger. ($14.95, 0-8050-5505-3; Owl
sweet romance to her involvement with feminism at Books.) Through interviews with such key players
Stanford, hooks reveals her personal experience while as Sherry Lansing, Dawn Steel, Meg Ryan, Liv
bringing her searing insights to bear on Euro-Ameri- Ullman, Nora Ephron and others, script consultant
can social institutions. Advertised in the Feminist and seminar leader Linda Seger shows how the
Bookstore Network Fall Catalog. $20 cl, 0-8050-4146-X. growing influence of women in the TV and movie
Ev'ry Time I Feel the Spirit: 101 Best-Loved industries will change what we see in both mediums.
Psalms, Gospel Hymns, and Spiritual Songs of the LMDH, JT
African American Church edited by Gwendolin Sims
W tioa nrr e tn h. a t( $ 2 c5 el e bcl r, a t0 e- s8 0 t5 h0 e- 4 4 si1 g0 n-8 if.) i c aA nn c e i n os fp ir Ai fn rg i c ac nompila- / l i g f
American musical tradition, this book also presents a
lively history of the evolution of each song and its HOUGHTON MIFFLIN
composer, examining how it emboldened African West Wind by Mary Oliver. “Language is, in
Americans to carry on in the face of adversity. other words, not necessary, but voluntary. If it were
The Women’s Sports Encyclopedia edited by necessary, it would have stayed simple; it would not
Robert Markel, Susan Waggoner and Marcella Smith. agitate our hearts with ever-present loveliness and
($30 cl, 0-8050-4494-9.) A comprehensive reference ever-cresting ambiguity; it would not dream, on its
which includes more than 650 biographies that profile long white bones, of turning into song.” —Mary
past and present female athletes from all over the Oliver in “Three Songs,” from West Wind. Oliver’s
world, record sections, numerous sidebars and close- poems never sway from sheer elegance and excel-
ups. It also contains an appendix of “famous firsts,” lence. In West Wind, she continues in her devotion to
which provides a timeline of women’s sports from 500 the natural world — of which she writes with mes-
B.C. to the present. merizing fascination and love — and hints at the
Polite Lies: On Being A Woman Caught Between intense passion found in her love affair with words.
Cultures by Kyoko Mori. ($22.50 cl, 0-8050-4079-X, From the subtle symbolism of her maples and foxes
January.) Kyoko Mori (Shizuko's Daughter) spent her to her more overt pleas to push away from the desk
childhood in Japan and now lives in the Midwest. In and look (really look) out the window, Oliver eagerly
this collection of essays she writes about love, mar- prescribes nature as a cure for the ways in which
riage, the body, death, family, a woman’s place, and moving through an unfeeling world ail us. $21,
language and gossip in two cultures. 0-395-85082-7.
Cabbage and Bones: An Anthology of Irish- The Reader's Companion to U.S. Women’s
American Women’s Fiction edited by Caledonia History edited by Wilma Mankiller, Gwendolyn Min,
Kearns. ($15 pb, 0-8050-5200-3; Owl Books.) Organ- Marysa Navarro, Barbara Smith, and Gloria Steinem.
ized chronologically from writings at the turn of the More than 300 contributors are represented. Includes
century to the present, this collection includes selec- a very brief piece by Carol Seajay on the history of
tions from Alice McDermott, Anna Quindlen, Tess women’s bookstores and feminist publishers. $45,
Gallagher, Maureen Howard, Mary McCarthy, Valerie 0-395-67173-6, December.
Sayers, and other writers who are not (yet) so well Trespassing: My Sojourn in the Halls of
known. A paperback original. Privilege by Gwendolyn Parker. ($23, 0-395-82297-1.)
Now in paper: Bone Black: Memories of Girlhood A bittersweet and graceful memoir, evoking the
by bell hooks. ($11.95, 0-8050-5512-6.) African American dignity of Parker’s family and the hurts and triumphs
November/December 1997 126 Volume 20 Number!
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms| Feminist Bookstore News
=
Bil. ial Ail |:
DEIL s S
of a woman successfully struggling against gender Epstein’s mother was the only one in her family to
bias and racial discrimination. survive the Holocaust. When she died, Epstein
Aquamarine by Carol Anshaw. “I found myself (Children of the Holocaust) set out to discover her
wishing I could...start a discussion group to debate all mother’s story — and found survivors who had
the questions this astonishing novel provokes.” known her mother and grandmother, and a trove of
—Dorothy Allison. Carol Anshaw traces three possible archival material that, together, brought her ancestors
paths for Olympic swimmer Jesse Austin after she is back to life. A moving chronicle with the narrative pull
seduced and consequently edged out of a gold medal of fiction. Advertised in the Feminist Bookstore
by her Australian rival. “The most original novel in Network Fall Catalog. $24.95 cl, 0-316-24608-5.
years.” —Chicago Tribune. Winner, Carl Sandburg
Award for Fiction. Advertised in the Feminist Book- MORROW
store Network Fall Catalog. $11 pb, 0-395-87755-5. The Shared Heart: Portraits and Stories Cele-
In Seven Moves by Carol Anshaw, Christine Snow, brating Lesbian, Gay and Bisexual Young People,
a successful Chicago therapist, sets out to find her van- photographs by Adam Mastoon. ($25 cl, 0-688-14931-6.)
ished lover, travel photographer Taylor Hayes. Forging The young women and men featured in this book come
a trail that leads into the heart of Morocco, Seven Moves from diverse racial, economic and family back-
tracks Christine's gradual recognition that no one can grounds. Their brief, eloquent and powerful essays
ever really know another’s soul. Funny, hip and laser- about coming out to family and friends are accompa-
sharp, this is a “tightly told tale that resists the nied by beautiful full-page duotone photographs.
bookmark as well as any thriller.” —Chicago Sun-Times. “The Shared Heart is profound in its simplicity and
Advertised in the Feminist Bookstore Network Fall directness. These young people are an inspiration to us
Catalog. $11 pb, 0-395-88519-1.—DH and Janet Newton all, no matter what our individual sexuality. They cele-
Full Circle Books/Albuquerque brate diversity and the strength of the human spirit.
For every story there is a face, a picture of a strong
ıl: l y alo l.u n Tg h isp e r bs oo on k, wm ia llk i n sag v e t h le iv ew s.o ”r l —d E a m ib lyet t Se ar l i ep rl sa ,c e t hf eor us
Indigo Girls. A book that should be available in every
HYPERION bookstore and library. 914" x 1114", 40 photographs.
Between Each Line of Pain and Glory: My Life Miss Ophelia by Mary Burnett Smith. ($24 cl,
Story by Gladys Knight. ($24.95 cl, 0-7868-6326-9.) At 0-688-15234-1.) Belly, a strong-willed and free-spirited
age seven, Gladys Knight was on tour opening for eleven-year-old, is sent off to take care of her mean
such musicians as Ike and Tina Turner, Sam Cooke Aunt Rachel who is recovering from surgery. Set in
and Jackie Wilson. Her last solo album went gold in rural Virginia during 1948, this coming-of-age story
1995, and last year she was inducted into the Rock explores the issues of abortion, illegitimacy, adultery
and Roll Hall of Fame. Here Knight relates her and skin color.
thoughts on her Atlanta childhood and early star- Sister Sets: Sisters Whose Togetherness Sets
dom, her vivid memories of racism and her Them Apart by Emily Gwathmey and Ellen Stern.
phenomenal professional success. —LM ($19 cl, 0-688-15331-3.) Yet another sister book! With
photographs, paintings, movie stills, song sheets,
LITTLE, BROWN posters, ads and other ephemera, Sister Sets is a trib-
Where She Came From: A Daughter’s Search for ute to such siblings as the Delany sisters, Jackie and
Her Mother’s History by Helen Epstein. Helen Lee, Dear Abby and Ann, Joan and Olivia, the Dionne
Volume 20 Number 4 127 November /December 1997
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
quintuplets and the Doublemint twins. Over 100 illus- self-portrait of both the personal and professional lives
trations, many in full color. —LM of this dedicated and driven nuclear activist. “She
NORTON s th o o w shed if t m te h ew h coat n s co in oe u s nse et ss- o n o- ff i r te h e h u wm ora ln d . ”b e —in Sg i s tc ea rn Hd eo len
Adèle by Mary Flanagan. ($23 cl, 0-393-04547-1.) Prejean (Dead Man Walking). -LM
The mystery of Adèle infuses this erotic novel, which
starts in decadent 1930s Paris and ends in today’s
brash London. A provocative and original novel by a ıl:
literary writer who steps beyond the boundaries of
what we know as male and female. Now in paper: PENGUIN/VIKING
Flanagan's The Blue Woman: Stories. ($13, 0-393- The New Intimacy by Barbara Cully. A National
31726-9.) “The Blue Woman bursts with insight about Poetry Series 1996 Competition winner. “She is a poet
male-female relations, women growing older and the reading the world for the brutality of its inequities,
small dramas that affect us all. In unflaggingly crisp, aware of the flattening compression of historical
witty prose that displays a wide range of styles and memory and the dissolution of the body...Cully
points of view, the tales range through the different locates her hope in a present glimmering with futu-
life stages of women.” —Publishers Weekly. rity, and also turns us away from the seductions of
The Black Notebooks: An Interior Journey by despair toward an impassioned interdependence.
Toi Derricotte. ($21.95 cl, 0-393-04544-7.) In a book Cully’s poetry is profoundly political, tragic and
which began as sketchy journal entries over 20 years comic, and well worth a look.” $14.95, 0-14-02648-0-9.
ago when she moved into an all-white neighborhood The 25th anniversary reissue of Memoirs of an
near New York City, Derricotte describes encounters Ex-Prom Queen by Alix Kates Shulman (Drinking the
with family, neighbors, friends and colleagues where Rain) is “told with astringent wit, explores every
she is forced to question what it means to be a light- facet and cliché of what it means to grow up female
skinned Black woman living in a racially divided and beautiful.... We are convinced that this is exactly
world. A brilliant meditation about the complexity of what it’s like to exist as a bright and beautiful sex
race in this country, it is also a book about uncovering object in the world’s oldest game.... A challenging
the denied and shameful aspects of the self, and the and bitter brew of a novel.” —San Francisco Chronicle.
author’s journey toward self-acceptance. Includes a new introduction by the author. $12.95 pb,
Honey, Hush! An Anthology of African 0-14-026571-6.
American Women’s Humor edited by Daryl Cumber “To put it simply, we are here, first to develop
Dance. ($30 cl, 0-393-04557-9.) This unique collection ourselves, then to be ourselves, and finally to extend
brings together a wonderful assemblage of contribu- ourselves to each other.” In Loving Men More,
tors, from slave narrators to contemporary political Needing Men Less Judith Sills, Ph.D., shows women
commentators, from antebellum poets to Audre that by refocusing (on ourselves), reframing (what
Lorde, from the earliest novelists to Toni Morrison. makes us happy) and responding differently (chang-
Foreword by Nikki Giovanni. ing how we act) we can change how we feel. “Love
Now in paper: Sojourner Truth: A Life, A Symbol isn't something you get — by picking the right man,
by Nell Irvin Painter. ($14.95, 0-393-31708-0.) “An or fixing the one you have — it’s something you do.”
exquisitely detailed study of a brilliant and powerful $11.95 pb, 0-14-024223-6.
life.” —San Francisco Chronicle. Wise Women: Over The Rest of Us: Dispatches from the Mother
Two Thousand Years of Spiritual Writing by Women Ship by Jacquelyn Mitchard. ($22.95 cl, 0-670-87662-3,
edited by Susan Cahill. ($15, 0-393-31679-3.) A rich and Viking.) From the author of The Deep End of the Ocean,
diverse collection of memoirs, stories, poetry, letters, a collection of essays from her nationally syndicated
prayers and theologies representing a tradition of the newspaper column.
prophetic and practical wisdom of women’s spirit- Gertrude Stein, Writings 1902-1932 ($40,
uality. A Desperate Passion: An Autobiography by 1-883011-40-X, March); and Writings 1932-1946
Helen Caldicott. ($13.95, 0-393-31680-7.) A candid ($40, 1-883011-41-8, March) edited by Catharine
November /December 1997 128 Volume 20 Number!
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
lal Il. å
y
Stimpson and Harriet Chessman. The two volumes passionate love affairs with both men and women.
of this set from The Library of America are available $14, 1-57322-609-2, Riverhead.
individually. Writings 1902-1932 takes Stein from The Seeing Glass: A Memoir by Jacquelin
her initial, more traditional fictional works to the Gorman. When a rare optic condition strikes Gorman,
exuberant and astonishing experiments of the early colors one by one vanish from her view, and her vision
Paris years. It includes Q.E.D., Four Saints in Three begins to falter. She quickly finds herself in a race
Acts, Lifting Belly, The Autobiography of Alice B. Toklas against the encroaching darkness, studying family
and numerous portraits of friends and collaborators, photos, committing them to memory. A heartbreaking
Matisse, Mabel Dodge Luhan and Picasso among account of loss and renewal, blindness as metaphor,
them. Writings 1932-1946 includes such works as and the healing, eternal light of love. $22.95 cl,
Stanzas in Meditation, Lectures in America, The World 1-57322-061-2, Riverhead.
is Round and The Mother of Us All. —DH, LM, JT The Woman Who Walked on Water by Lily Tuck.
A tale of a woman's spiritual journey, with a troubling
f dark side. Adele leaves behind her family to follow a
l Ms guru to India. $11, 1-57322-583-5, Riverhead.
Prairie Reunion by Barbara Scot. A bittersweet
PLENUM homecoming story, tracing the author’s return, in
The Feminist Dollar: The Wise Woman’s middle age, to the puritanical farming community
Buying Guide by Phyllis A. Katz and Margaret Katz. where she grew up — where she tries to piece
Fun to read, easy to use, The Feminist Dollar together the puzzle of her parents. $12, 1-57322-
provides the basic facts about gender fairness and 582-7, Riverhead.
equity as it is — or is not — practiced by corporations Awakening at Midlife: A Guide to Reviving
and governments. “Register your opposition to sexist Your Spirit, Recreating Your Life, and Returning to
attitudes and behaviors in the marketplace...and put Your Truest Self by Kathleen Brehony. For folks who
your money where it can reward those who respect are having a challenging time transitioning into
the dignity and potential of women.” —Letty Cottin mid-life, this is a guide to reviving enthusiasm for life,
Pogrebin (Deborah, Golda & Me.) Advertised in the which offers stories, strategies and exercises to trans-
Feminist Bookstore Network Fall Catalog. $19.95 pb, form and enrich the ongoing search for wholeness.
0-306-45563; $29.95 cl, -45562-5. $14, 1-57322-632-7, Riverhead.
Aliens in America by Sandra Tsing Loh. ($10 pb,
PUTNAM 1-57322-627-0; Riverhead.) About her one-woman
Violette’s Embrace by Michele Zacheim. Fictional show from which this book was drawn, The New
biography that evokes an era, a place, a woman, and a Yorker wrote, “Humorist Sandra Tsing Loh’s
literary phenomenon. Shelve with Leduc’s own auto- ill-matched parents — a cheap, passive-aggressive,
biographical writing for a wonderful fact/fiction serial-marrying Chinese father and a towering, peach
combination. $12, 1-57322-608-4, Riverhead. schnapps-drinking, party-loving German mother —
La Batarde by Violette Leduc. Poignant and were brought together by the vagaries of history and
frank, this is an obsessive and revealing self-portrait a shiny Buick; Loh, a typically Southern Californian
of a remarkable woman who felt herself humiliated by daughter, wonders where she figures in the equation.
the circumstances of her birth and by her physical The three engaging vignettes in her autobiographical
appearance, and who carried on a long search for her monologue are driven by intelligence and the healing
Own identity through a series of agonizing and power of expressive fury.” A paperback original.
Volume 20 Number 4 129 November /December 1997
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
News of the Spirit: Stories by Lee Smith. ($23.95 Creme de la Femme: The Best of Contemporary
cl, 0-399-14281-9.) Lee Smith is a wonderful writer Women’s Humor developed by Anne Safran Dalin,
who knows how to create characters that the reader edited by Nancy Davis, includes contributions from
both believes in and cares about, and then places them Terry McMillan, Kathy Najimy, Wendy Wasserstein,
in stories that are lyrical, often funny, sometimes Anna Quindlen, Mary Kay Blakely, Ruby Dee, Anne
heartbreaking and always wise. Lamott, Gloria Steinem, and Jane Wagner. This col-
The Seamstress: A Memoir of Survival by Sara lection also includes many of the authors that were
Tuvel Bernstein. ($24.95, 0-399-14322-X.) The memoir in Roz Warren's pioneering anthologies Women’s
of an intelligent, independent and resourceful young Glib, Women’s Glibber, Glibquips, and The Best Contem-
Jewish woman who left school in Budapest at age 14 porary Women’s Humor, et al. Advertised in the
to apprentice as a seamstress, determined to control Feminist Bookstore Network Fall Catalog. $16.95 pb,
her own destiny. While the Nazis encircled and began
bombing Hungary, she supported her family, and then
took care of her younger sister and two close friends
when the four were deported together to a concentra-
tion camp. The publisher notes that this is a book
suitable for young readers. The Djinn in the Nightingale’s Eye: Five Fairy
Singing in the Comeback Choir by Bebe Moore Stories by A.S. Byatt. ($19 cl, 0-679-42008-8.) A small
Campbell. ($24.95 cl, 0-399-14298-3, January.) Maxine (45/8 x 65/8) illustrated hardcover containing a hand-
McCoy, a Black woman raised by her grandmother in a ful of imaginative historical and contemporary fairy
working-class Philadelphia neighborhood, is a success- stories for grown-ups.
ful television producer in Los Angeles who worries Cold Blood by Lynda La Plante. ($23 cl, 0-679-
about the social value of her work. She is called back to 44104-2.) Lorraine Page, ex-police lieutenant,
Philadelphia and finds her once happy, joyful grand- ex-hooker, ex-wife and mother, has recovered from
mother has grown bitter, and the striving neighborhood the alcoholism that nearly destroyed her life and has
she remembers has become a blighted, crime-infested set up her own private investigation agency in Los
area. After a few days there, Maxine realizes that both Angeles. In this sequel to Cold Shoulder Page lands her
her grandmother and her old neighborhood have been first high-profile case. La Plante is the author of the
the source of her own strength and success, and she is “Prime Suspect” TV series with Helen Mirren.
moved to help both reclaim their glory. —DH, LM The Novellas of Hortense Calisher. ($19 cl,
0-679-60249-6; Modern Library.) The seven novellas in
this collection include A Tale for the Mirror, Extreme
4il; Magic, The Last Trolley Ride and the previously
RANDOM HOUSE unpublished Women Men Don't Talk About, a story of
women who live slightly apart from the society of men.
In The Body Project: An Intimate History of Landscapes of the Heart: A Memoir by Elizabeth
American Girls Joan Jacobs Brumberg (Fasting Girls: Spencer. ($23 cl, 0-679-45739-9.) Spencer (Light in the
A History of Anorexia Nervosa) shows how American Piazza) is a thoughtful, quiet writer. In this finely
girls came to define themselves more and more detailed memoir, she tells of her youth in Mississippi,
through their bodies, so that today the body has the time she spent in Italy and Canada, and of finally
become a girl’s primary project, leading to the social going “home” to North Carolina.
and emotional problems identitfied by Mary Pipher Nothing's Impossible: Leadership Lessons
(Reviving Ophelia) and Carol Gilligan (In a Different from the Front Lines by Lorraine Monroe. ($23 cl,
Voice). Included are girls’ diaries and a photo essay 0-8129-2904-7, Times Books.) Lorraine Monroe is a
that underscores how girls’ bodies have changed over legendary African American educator who has over
the last century. "Looks great! The 32-page photo essay 30 years’ experience as a teacher and administrator in
isn't included in the galley I have, but I'm looking the New York City public schools. Here she offers her
forward to it." —JT. $23 cl, 0-679-40209-7. leadership lessons to guide and inspire all those who
November /December 1997 130 Volume 20 Number 4
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
struggle to succeed amid seemingly impossible founder of Sassy and the much-anticipated Jane com-
situations. ing from Fairchild Publications. 0-609-80148-1,
Joni Mitchell: Lyrics & Poems. ($25 cl, 0-609- Clarkson Potter Publishers. —LM, JT
60008-7; Crown.) The first collection of Mitchell's poetic
lyrics, this book is annotated with commentary from the
artist and includes a selection of her line drawings.
Lest We Forget: The Passage from Africa to
Slavery and Emancipation by Velma Maia Thomas.
($29.95 cl, 0-609-60030-3; Crown.) This uniquely Jews and Feminism: The Ambivalent Search for
designed book by the manager of the Shrine of the Home by Laura Levitt. “Original and imaginative,
Black Madonna Bookstore in Atlanta is based on the [Laura Levitt] challenges her readers to reconsider
Black Holocaust Exhibit. It includes a pre-Colonial what it means to be a feminist and a Jew at the end of
map of Africa with a pull tab that changes to a map of the 20th century.” —Nancy K. Miller. Levitt looks at
the modern continent, a reproduction of a 150-year- what it means to claim a Jewish feminist identity in
old receipt for the purchase of a human being, the midst of the conflicting visions, material condi-
manumission papers stored in an embossed tobacco tions and promises of home that exist in America
can and other documents housed in the Exhibit. today. Advertised in the Feminist Bookstore Network
Accompanying the documents is fascinating text by Fall Catalog. $18.95 pb, 0-415-91445-0.
Thomas, who is also curator of the exhibit, as well as Creating Sanctuary: Towards the Evolution of
the moving words of slaves themselves. 10" x 10", 32 Sane Communities by Sandra Bloom. “A rare, origi-
pages, b/w photos; printed two-color throughout. nal, once-in-a-lifetime book that could save lives.
(Display copy available: $13.48 cl, 0-609-89806-X.) Here is a psychiatrist and activist whose programs
In Beyond Beauty: Girls Speak Out On Looks, help adults to uproot the original trauma and stop
Style, and Stereotypes 25 notable teens from repeating the violence that was done to them. Dr.
actresses Natalie Portman and Christina Ricci to Bloom shows us how to save future children from
tennis star Martina Hingis, from R&B singer Monica abuse, empty our over-crowded jails and rescue this
to Olympic gold medalists Oksana Baiul and nation from leaders who see violence as normal.”
Dominique Moceanu reveal to Jane Pratt how issues —Gloria Steinem. Advertised in the Feminist Book-
of physical appearance have affected them. They store Network Fall Catalog. $17.95 pb, 0-415-91874-X.
deleve into how their experiences, accomplish- Femme: Feminists, Lesbians and Bad Girls
ments, and pressure from friends, family, and skinny edited by Laura Harris and Elizabeth Crocker.
girls in glossy magazines have shaped their impres- Through provocative essays and interviews, con-
sions of what it means to be beautiful. Pratt includes tributors including Barbara Cruikshank, Madeline
some diversity, but you won't find any fat or Davis, Heather Findlay, Jewelle Gomez, Amber Halli-
average-looking girls here — no one is “average” in baugh, Elizabeth Lapovsky Kennedy, Joan Nestle and
this book. The hip design and 300 color photos are Minnie Bruce Pratt, highlight the importance of listen-
great, and what the girls have to say is very interest- ing to femme voices as an essential part of queer,
ing, intriguing and informative, but I think it will act feminist and lesbian thought. Femme offers an
like another glossy girls’ magazine, causing girls to alliance between many communities of women pre-
stress out about how they measure up or don’t. The viously excluded by feminism. Advertised in the
Price is steep at $30, but stores should definitely Feminist Bookstore Network Fall Catalog. $17.95 pb,
carry Beyond Beauty — it will sell! Pratt is the 0-415-91874-X.
Volume 20 Number 4 131 November /December 1997
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Jewish Women in America: An Historical link the theoretical and the practical by providing rich
Encyclopedia edited by Paula Hyman and Deborah case studies of the strategies of resistance developed
Dash Moore. ($250 cl, 0-415-91934-7.) This is the first by women from diverse racial-ethnic and regional
standard reference work on the lives, history, and communities.”
activities of Jewish women in the U.S. from 1654 to the Yielding Gender: Feminism, Deconstruction
present. It will be included in the Feminist Bookstore and the History of Philosophy, Penelope Deutscher.
Network Fall Catalog, and despite its steep price, I ($17.95 pb, 0-415-13945-7; $65 cl, -13944-9.) Explores
believe it will sell. Order accordingly! and reconsiders the tensions that deconstruction
Nine Black Women: An Anthology of Nine- poses for feminist philosophy.
teenth-Century Writers from the United States, A Trial of Witches: A Seventeenth Century
Canada, Bermuda and the Caribbean edited by English Witchcraft Prosecution, Gilbert Geis and
Moira Ferguson. ($18.95 pb, 0-415-91905-3; $69.95 cl, Ivan Bunn. ($19.95 pb, 0-415-17109-1; $69.95 cl,
-91904-5). The subtitle says it all. -17108-3.) An in-depth study of the trial of two
Re-thinking Abortion: Psychology, Gender, women hanged in Lowestoft in 1662.
Power, and the Law, Mary Boyle. ($17.95 pb, 0-415-
16365-X; $65 cl, -16364-1). If books on abortion sell for JANUARY TITLES
you, you may want to stock one. This one claims to be My Gender Workbook: How to Become a Real
an analysis of the debates and legislation. Man, a Real Woman, the Real You, or Something
Else Entirely, Kate Bornstein. ($16.95 pb, 0-415-
91673-9; $59.95 cl, -91672-0.) My guess is that this will
4il; be a huge hit. [FYI: for those of you still clinging to
DECEMBER TITLES t ph le a c m e,y t h E O t Nha t (S Ey xr pac ru ese s, s iN nY g, i Os ua r h i Nck a tl uit rtl ee ) ,u p ast a t ne ational
Social Perspectives on Lesbian and Gay Studies: organization for the transgendered, regularly has its
A Reader edited by Peter Nardi and Beth Schneider. national conventions here!] At any rate, this promises
($24.95 pb, 0-415-16709-4; $74.95 cl, -16708-6.) This is a to be somewhat off the beaten path for Routledge: it
comprehensive reader bringing a social science appears to be a highly accessible, hands-on (gloved
perspective to an area previously dominated by the or ungloved) guide to having your own unique
humanities. Offers readers a look at how sociology gender. I'll eat my boa if I'm wrong on this one.
came to engage with lesbian and gay issues. Looks Vested Interests: Cross-dressing and Cultural
good for both academic and general audiences. Anxiety, Marjorie Garber. ($23 pb, 0-415-91951-7.)
Ritch A Sn avd i n T -Whe in ll i aI m B s.e c (a $m 17e . 9 5G a y p: b , Y o 0u -4n 1g 5 - 9M 1e 6n 7’ 7s - 1 S ; t o $r 6i 5es, T Ch oli ls i n sis lea t r gep or i on ut t o of f a p rs io nm t.ewhat popular title Harper-
cl, -91676-3.) For stores that stock gay men’s titles, this Moral Understandings: A Feminist Study in
p Nr oe rs te hn t s A mth err ie ce a y inou n tg h e m 8e 0n s a an nd d t 9h 0se .ir coming-of-age in Ethics, Margaret Urban Walker. ($17.95 pb, 0-415-
91421-3; $69.95 cl, -91420-5.) If you have a philosophy
Sexual Subjects: Lesbians, Gender and Psych- section, try one or two.
oanalysis, Adria Schwartz. ($19.95 pb, 0-415-910093-5; Feminism and Ecological Communities: An
$69.95 cl, -91002-7.) The catalog says this is a “...psycho- Ethic of Flourishing, Chris Cuomo. ($18.95 pb, 0-415-
analytic book informed by gender theory, queer theory 15806-0; $65 cl, -15805-2.) Here’s a first: a look at
and feminism” addressing the “tensions inherent in postmodern feminist arguments against ecofeminism
writing about lesbians and sexuality in the postmod- and strong new arguments for ecofeminism. If you
e ler sn b i aa ng e . l” i v eG s.ood if you have academics looking at hnaevede ao n ec li eonrt etlwe o r.eading about ecofeminism, you'll
Community Activism and Feminist Politics:
Organizing Across Race, Class, and Gender edited FEBRUARY TITLES
b -9y 1 6 N 29a -n 1c .y ) LN ooap kl se s . f a ( i$ r2 ly2. 9 a5 c ap db em, i0 c- . 4 1 “5 T- h9 e1 6 3 co0 n-5 t; r i b$7 u4 t. o9 r5 s cl, ($18.9 5M e pn b , D 0o -i 4n 1g 5 - F 91em 62i 6n -i 7s ;m $ 6e 9d .i 9t 5e d c lb , y - 9 T 1o 6m 25 - 9D .)i g b Ly oo. ks
November /December 1997 132 Volume 20 Number 4
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms: Feminist Bookstore News
Ënl. sÅ EAnt.. E ial „il. ssa
like a serious exploration of the questions that arise history. Returns insistently to the innermost dilemmas
around men and feminism. Not out of the Men’s of femininity, spinning strange tales of medical
Movement thinking, but out of a feminist theory. humiliation, sexual betrayal, perverse eroticism, and
Body Talk: The Material and Discursive the unsettling traumas of child rearing. From contem-
Regulation of Sexuality, Madness and Reproduction porary motherhood in Los Angeles to computer sex in
edited by Jane Ussher. ($18.95 pb, 0-415-15364-6; Paris, these stories explore people, places and emo-
$69.95 cl, -15363-8.) A collection of works looking at tions with an uncanny eye for detail and a sharp
the body from a variety of academic approaches. insight into the grand outrageousness of life. $22 cl,
Ussher is also the editor of the Routledge series 0-684-83439-1, Scribner.
Women and Psychology. —Mary Ellen Kavanaugh My Mother Was Right: How Today's Women
My Sisters’ Words/Syracuse NY Reconcile with Their Mothers by Barbara McFarland
ST. MARTIN’S PRESS wan od m eV ni r g acin roia s s W ta ht es o n U . SR . o au nsl di n . C aA nf adte ar , ts hu er v e ay utin hg o r s1 7 e0 xam-
Sex, Nation, and Dissent in Irish Writing edited ine perhaps the most fundamental and complicated
by Éibhear Walshe examines Irish gay and lesbian relationship of them all. They show us that it is only
writers and the relationship between nationalism and after we come to terms with our mothers that we are
sexual identity. She argues that literary expressions of able to come to terms with ourselves. $25 cl, 0-7879-
sexual dissidence in Ireland cannot be abstracted from 0875-4, Scribner.
Ireland's experience of colonization. This collection No Regrets: The Life of Marietta Tree by
shows how Irish lesbian and gay writers engaged with Caroline Seebohm. Tree was a political activist, wit-
the complex socio-political changes in Ireland during ness to the last years of FDR, the founding of the UN,
the 19th and 20th centuries. Work by such writers as and knew Winston Churchill and Marilyn Monroe.
Oscar Wilde, Mary Dorcey, Emma Donoghue, Anne $27.50 c], 0-684-81008-5.
Fogarty and Declan Kiberd are explored. $19.95 pb, Courtney Love: The Real Story by Poppy Z.
0-312-17447-0; $55 cl, -17446-2. JT Brite. “Shocking, wrenchingly honest portrait of con-
troversial rocker,” this book uses Love’s own journal
entries and letters, interviews with friends, and exclu-
ıl:
sive photos. $23 cl, 0-684-84506-7.
In the Meantime: Finding Yourself and the Love
SIMON & SCHUSTER You Want by Iyanla Vanzant. A book about relation-
Kate Burke Shoots the Old West by Jerrie Hurd. ships that can help us reach new levels of awareness,
Don’t let the floral and feather cover of this historical spiritual growth and fulfillment. Vanzant is a leading
novel scare you off. Although there is a bit of romance authority on spirituality and empowerment. Here she
novel here, there’s a lot more of the herstory of helps us to break free of our fantásies and view a
women in the West. Portrays the relations between relationship as an ongoing process of discovery and
men and women and between whites and Native growth. $23 cl, 0-684-84136-3.
Americans around 1891. I was entranced. $5.99, One Must Wait by Penny Mickelbury. Mickel-
0-671-51910-7, Pocket. bury received a Lambda Award nomination for her
The Skull of Charlotte Corday: And Other most recent mystery, Night Songs. Here she introduces
Stories by Leslie Dick. A collection of short stories that Black criminal defense attorney Carol Ann Gibson,
descends into the deeper recesses of the human mind whose husband is murdered for his principles. Go for
and maps the bizarre and troubling byways of human it. $22 cl, 0-684-83741-2.
Volume 20 Number 4 133 November /December 1997
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
The Visitation by Sue Reidy. ($11 pb, 0-684- hardcover as In the House of the Moon. Jason is an expert
83954-7; Scribner.) “Other children played Mothers in alternative medical practices. Gentle effective treat-
and Fathers, Cowboys and Indians, or Cops and ments. $14.99, 0-446-67271-8. —DH, LM
Robbers. Catherine and Theresa Flynn played Martyrs
and Suffering Virgins.” When the Virgin Mary appears WILEY
to the Flynn girls and asks them to buy her suitable Women of Taste: Recipes and Profiles of Great
clothes for her earthly mission (a campaign for birth Women Chefs by Beverley Russell. In this salute to
control), it’s an assignment they've been readying the culinary genius of 32 great women chefs, readers
themselves for for years. A paperback original. will be inspired by the artistry and hard-won battles
Now in paper: Crows Over a Wheatfield by of some of the world’s most talented chefs. Lavish
Paula Sharp. ($14, 0-671-01164-2.) This powerful, full-color photographs of the chef's signature recipes,
insightful and compelling novel which deals with portraits of each woman, an overview of their restau-
the issue of domestic violence was a favorite in the rants, and a special interview with Julia Child make
FBN office.
Women of Taste one of the season's gustatory
The Healing Choice: Your Guide to Emotional delights. Advertised in the Feminist Bookstore
Recovery After an Abortion by Candace De Puy, Network Fall Catalog. $35 cl, 0-471-17943-4.
Ph.D., and Dana Dovitch, Ph.D. The abortion debate Stolen Women: Reclaiming Our Sexuality,
frequently overshadows the feelings of the millions of Taking Back Our Lives by Dr. Gail Elizabeth Wyatt.
women who have made this sometimes difficult deci- “Dissects the myths...unshackles our minds.” —Bebe
sion. This helpful, commonsense book provides vital Moore Campbell, bestselling author of Brothers and
guidance and reassurance to those whose lives, even Sisters. In a groundbreaking work of uncompromis-
years later, may still be affected by the experience. “In ing honesty, the nation’s leading expert on Black
this important book women of every ilk and belief will female sexuality tells the authentic story of African
find a sensitive, learned and original guide for the American women’s sexual experience, based on
post-abortion process.” —Ms. Advertised in the in-depth interviews with hundreds of women ages 18
F 0em -6in 8is 4t - B 8o 3ok 1st 9or 6e - 1N ,et w o Frk ir F ea sll i dC eat .a lo g —. $ D12 H p ,b , LM t to ic e .8 0 A dan vd er tf ise ea dtu r ii nn g t h c ea s e F e mhi is nt io sr ti e s B o f or ko sm to r eh e Nr e to ww on r k prac-
Fall Catalog. $24.95 cl, 0-471-12450-8. o
f
l sh
WARNER FSt Ea Mte INm Ie Sn Tt Bo Of O KO Sw Tn Oe Rr Esh i Np, E W M Sa n (a 1g 0e /m 1/e 9n 7t ) , a n pd u b lC isi hrc eu dlation:
Musclebound by Liza Cody. ($22 cl, 0-89296- monthly in January, March, May, July, September and
601-7; Mysterious Press.) The third book in the series November. Subscription price: $70/year/ store. Mailing
featuring London professional wrestler and sleuth address of Known Office of Publication: 2180 Bryant St.
Eva W Ey nlie t. erprising Woman: An Inspirational and O# qu w2 a0 nr7 t e, e r r : sS :a C n aS ra oF m lr e a . Sn e c aPi js u ac ybo l ,, i s h PC e OA r , B 9 oE4 xd1 i1 t0 8o. 8r 2 ,M 5 5Ma 4il ,ai nn a Sg g a ni nA gd F d r Er andes i cts i o s cro o f ,a n CH d Aead-
Informational Guide to Every Woman Starting, 94188-2554. Known bondholders: none. Average Number of
Running, or Redefining Her Business by Mari Copies Each Issue During Preceeding 12 Months (Actual
Florence. For large and small businesses, this book is Number of Copies September 1997/Single Issue Published
an essential tool for every woman business owner. Nearest to Filing Date): A-Total Copies /Net Press Run: 792
C suo cm ceb si sn fe us l b ru os lein e mss o di en lf s.o r $m 14at .9io 9n , 0w -4it 4h 6 - 6p 7r 2o 7f 5i -l 0es . of t 0( h6 r7 o (5 u 0g) )h. , d B e 2a- )leP Mra s a,i d i c l a r ra Sin e urd bs,/ s cso t rr r ie e p tR t ive oeq n nu d oe rs 5s t 6 ae 5nd d (c 5C ou 3i nr 7tc )e .ru l s Ca alt -ei s To : on t a l1 ) P S aia dle s or Re-
Feminine Healing: A Woman’s Guide to a
quested Circulation: 565 (537). D-Free Distribution: 51 (44).
Healthy Body, Mind, and Spirit by Jason Elias and E-Total Distribution: 648 (593). F-Copies Not Distributed
Katherine Ketcham. Unique guide to the power of 1)Office use, leftover, etc: 144 (82), 2)Returns from News
f loe om ki en di n be y m wet eh sto ed rs n o mf e h die ca il nin eg . Ot rh ia gt i n h ala lv ye pl uo bn lg is hb ee de n i n over- A & g e Pn ut bs l: i s h0 e r( .0 ) . P SG - FT oo rt mal: 37 59 22 6 . (675). Signed Carol Seajay, Editor
November/December 1997 134 Volume 20 Number 4
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsASM BOOKS. .. e ei a nearer eair 86 Luna Press"... i. e r t a 61
Alyson Publications... .... i r 106 Ms. Magazine... 3.. u e ir e 74
Arte Público Press.. pei 94 Naiad Press... 4 e tri a 84, 90
Boodklog «s e e C2 New Society Publishers... =... 92
BCOOaKplEyOplxe .... A-esa er ea8 12 Penn'State Press 1.1.. N9 N 110
Pläin"VieW PIeS8 ....... re s 104
Chronicle BOOKS -e ar 120 Random House... e C1
City Lights Publishers... 28 Ravenwood Co., Ltd... 32
CONSORT a sie a 100 Routledge o s aip ii 4
Díana Manley! ... s e 60 Scholastic, Ing eea 54
Goldenrod Distribution.. ...... =... 78 Sherman Asher. =. s4. k 44
gynergy bO0ks.. a. e se 10 Signs'of Pride. 2.. A e e ?2??
H IDar Gpe 'BrS Oän OF Kra Sn .c .i s c eo. e ah . .. e 3 8 62 S Tu esa en n B . V P ou ib cli es sh .i .n .g . . N .. .. . i e= > 8A 8 102
HiS EdiHOnS... e a e ae 96 Turnstone Press... A i e 98
Jossey-Bass.lMc...... e v 118 University Of Chicago Press. . ........-- >.. 112
Koen Book Distributors... -s C3 University Of IOWA PresS .....-....-...... 108
LadysSlpper. aeee deia 64 University of Minnesota Press ............-.. 6
Lola Press.. uk s s ae 89 West of the Wind Publications. .............. 82
Mysteries, continued from page 73.
Classified Ads, continued from page 136. Linda Grant's first mystery since the gripping, femi-
publishers. BookGrrls, Dorothy Holland, Box 830, nist A Woman's Place. Here, corporate P.I. Catherine
Placitas NM 87043-0830; 505-867-9077, fax 505-867- Sayler looks into foul play at a Berkeley genetics lab,
1455, email (dorothy@bookgrrls.com). a timely subject indeed. ($5.99 pb, 0-804-11558-3, Ivy.)
On a completely different note, here are some
Publicist/Marketing Consuitant specializing in femi- literary mysteries. Unbound by Julie Kaewert looks
nist and/or lesbian book promotions. Experienced interesting. This is a paperback original, described
and knowledgeable in many aspects of book retailing, as a “booklover’s mystery,” about sleuthing pub-
publishing and distribution. Creative and flexible lisher Alex Plumtree, head of a prestigious British
services. Reasonable rates. Committed to the women’s press. ($5.99 pb, 0-553-57715-8, December, Bantam.)
movement as well as to business concerns. Mev Miller, Jane Austen is back as a sleuth in Jane and the Man
1483 Laurel Avenue, St. Paul MN 55401; 612-646-0097, of the Cloth, which I liked even better than Jane and
email (mev@winternet.com). the Unpleasantness at Scargrave Manor. Author
Stephanie Barron’s style is an uncanny match for
FBN Classified Ads — $10 for first 50 words, 15 Austen's own, and the plot moves briskly through
cents for each additional word. 25% discount for 3 scenes of 19th century society both high and low.
Or more insertions paid at one time. Payment must ($6.50 pb, 0-553-57489-2, December, Bantam.)
accompany ad. No charge for “Help Wanted” Finally, there’s Quieter Than Sleep by Joanne
listings up to 100 words. Send to: FBN, PO Box Dobson, subtitled “An Emily Dickinson Mystery,”
882554, San Francisco CA 94188, or email about murder at a conference of Dickinson scholars.
(Jenn@FemBkNews.com). ($21.95 cl, 0-385-48692-8, Doubleday.) o
Volume 20 Number 4 135
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
HELP WANTED
cultures, environmental issues, sacred sites, plus
snazzy pictures, too! $4 retail/$2.40 wholesale.
Freelance copy editor. Cleis Press is looking for expe- Inquiries: Willow LaMonte, Goddessing, Box 269,
rienced, highly-skilled freelance copy editors to edit Valrico FL 33595 or PO Box 73, Sliema, Malta, email
manuscripts (including fact checking) and proof (goddssng@maltanet.net).
galleys. Apply to: Felice Newman, Publisher, Cleis
Press, PO Box 14684, San Francisco CA 94114; COMIX
(cleis@aol.com).
Feminist science fiction quarterly in comic form —
The Advocate/Alyson Publications has three posi- Invasion of the Space Amazons from the Purple
tions open: Publisher, Publicity/Marketing Manager Planet! Latest issue now available from GrizMart
and Associate Editor. All positions offer comprehen- Productions, PO Box 442612, Lawrence KS 66044.
sive benefits and competitive salaries based on expe- Single copy: $2.50 postpaid; 40% bookstore discount
rience. Fax or send resume and salary requirements to on 5+ copies (5 copies, $6.75 postpaid). Send your
Human Resources, Alyson Publications, Inc. PO Box store's business card for free sample kit!
4371, Los Angeles CA 90078; fax 213-467-0173. No
phone calls, please. SERVICES
SIDELINES
Free Booksearch. Send us your out-of-print book
needs. We will search for you. You can send them via
Gay Chocolate Bar. Linda Grishman produces two- email at (rtkemp@aol.com) or by mail: Kemp Krafts,
ounce premium chocolate diamond-shaped bars that 288 Flynn Avenue, Burlington VT 05401-5374.
come in six flavors: milk, milk with almonds, milk
with hazelnut praline, dark, dark with roasted Check Yourself! Excellent freelance copyediting/
almonds, and dark mint chip. Each wrapped in foil. A proofreading services provided by FBN’s office
wooden display available for $7.50 or order 144 and manager. Prices start at $12/hr for proofing, $18/hr
the rack is free. You can order direct, call 1-800-862- for copyediting, depending on task. Submissions
5814, or write for catalog sheet: Kemp Krafts, 288 received via email, fax, or delivery. Contact Danielle
Flynn Avenue, Burlington VT 05401-5374. Bauter at FBN: 415-642-9993 or in the evening at
MAGAZINES 415-334-4431, email (Danielle@FemBkNews.com).
Dorothy Holland runs BookGrrls, devoted to
Goddessing Regenerated, international multi-cultural keeping small independent bookstores in business.
36-page feminist newspaper: Oh, Black Madonnas, She also publishes The Co-Op Report, an annual
Yes, Double Goddesses! Some Vulva Goddesses, Tree publication with quarterly updates to assist
Goddesses, and Bird Goddesses, too. Sing me of independent booksellers in finding, using and
Crones, Gorgons, Bread Goddesses, Fat Goddesses, claiming co-operative advertising support from
Sun Goddesses, and Menstrual Muse! Prehistoric See Classified Ads, previous page.
November /December 1997 136 Volume 20 Number 4
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsA Room of One’s Own Womankind Books
Rainbow Ltd. A Different Drummer Mama
Bears Bookstore Lioness Books $Sisterspirit
#99 OR om these feminist. R
Corner F om ese IemiInIs
Shop M booksellers who use
L.
$ Brigit B BookLBG
Ý
M in d Inventory Management Systems . O k ç
Once U and save $500 to |
Woman s keleyf
Women SSSR PAT TTE destar
Books Common Language Rea! World|
Emporium Mother Kalis Books BOOK
Gallery Crazy Ladies Bookstore Prairie
Moon My Sisters Words Women and
Children First Wild Iiris Books
Call 800.977.8212
ComputerWorks of Chicago
ComputerWorks is 100% woman-owned
* Valid through December 31, 1997
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsthe best i in indepen feminist, and SSY i-
and lesbian press, Koen is heads above the
competition. Both our buyers and sales
representatives have a real commitment
to the titles that you care about, and our
low minimums make it easy for you to get
the range of books you need.
he Best Jelles.
The Best i TALH Pathi
1-800-257-8448]
Keen Beck
DAut, (ne.
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:42:57 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms