Feminist Bookstore News
Source: Reveal Digital, 11-01-1996
Contributed by: Carol Seajay; Tee A. Corinne; Ruthann Robson; Barbara Grier; Mabel
Maney; Terri de la Pena; Nikki Baker; Barbara Wilson; Judith Katz; Lee Lynch; Donna J.
McBride; Nancy K. Bereano; Karla Jay; Beverly A. Brown; Valerie Taylor; Carole Beu; Roz
Warren; Heather L. Seggel; Paul Wessels; Jane Evershed; Kathy Hagen; Sally Koplin; Elissa
Raffa; Marj Schneider; Mary Ellen Kavanaugh; Liz Wermcrantz; Roz Warren; Ellen Orleans;
Jenn Tust; Jacqueline Dumas; Anne A.; Lori; Barb Weiser; Dorothy Holland; Suzanne
Buffam; Linda Bubon; Julie Mitchell; Nan Cinnater; Barb Smalley; Richard Labonte; Tee A.
Corinne; Lois-Ann Yamanaka; Lisa McGowan; Mev Miller; Patty Callaghan; Rose Katz; Trudy
Mills; Sandi Torkildson
Stable URL: https://www.jstor.org/stable/community.28036377
Licenses: Creative Commons: Attribution-NonCommercial
JSTOR is a not-for-profit service that helps scholars, researchers, and students discover, use, and build upon a wide
range of content in a trusted digital archive. We use information technology and tools to increase productivity and
facilitate new forms of scholarship. For more information about JSTOR, please contact support@jstor.org.
This item is openly available as part of an Open JSTOR Collection.
For terms of use, please refer to our Terms & Conditions at https://about.jstor.org/terms/#whats-in-jstor
Reveal Digital is collaborating with JSTOR to digitize, preserve and extend access to Reveal Digital
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsdo
YOU WAnt e to
anima
Women & Humor
November/December 1996 Volume 19 Number 4
32913 iis (9
Te MINA Se eiO i
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsWe aren 1 going to brag that we haye
55,000 tits fron ove 1,500 pblisens,
Why talk about sheer nupnbers?
let talk instead about uhat s really important:
We haye the best selection m and University Press
Dook, as well as all the Destsellers you |r customers want.
The Best Sellers. The Best in Independent Press.
1-800-257-8481
Wg KOEN BOOK
N DISTRIBUTORS, INC.
SN ANAS AA
Ér S
a
K y " S E // , <> f — i ` ——
eF NS Ep“ OSIW SA i |
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
O05000 0:0. 0 0:40
I've always hated that cartoon where the ogre employees be fortunate enough to have union repre-
behind the sales desk snarls at the (male) customer, sentation in the near future.
“We don’t have a humor section—we’re a feminist ABA sold its remaining interest in what used to
bookstore.” be called the ABA Convention. If you're in Chicago
We have a sharp, biting, wicked sense of humor. next June, surrounded by books, you'll be at
We laugh at ourselves, with the people we love, and BookExpo America. Sounds like an amusement park.
skewer those who would do us harm. And somehow And the FTC dropped its anti-trust investigation and
those are always the folks who can't “get” feminist sold independent bookstores down the river. (See
humor and say we have none. page 7 for all the gory details.)
But obviously feminists must have some kind of Last but not least, FBN analyzes returns and
sense of humor — feminist bookstores have humor finds that chains have turned books into wallpaper
sections and shelves full of humor books. This issue and publishers into interior designers. Intrigued?
takes a brief look at feminist humor on the printed Turn to page 39.
page. Liz Wermcrantz presents a quick overview of Enjoy the issue,
feminist humor current and past. Roz Warren offers Carol Seajay
an insider's eye view of life in the fast lane of a
feminist humor publishing house, and Ellen Orleans
takes a look at novels that might-have-been. Follow- FBN
i nn ug m bt eh re ole fa d s e lo ff - s ein rvd iu ns gtr y “ a wp au rb dli sc ”i s t ts h, a tw e w ea l s wo e rc er e a gt oe id n g a Articles Due
to bestow on ourselves in this issue, but those things
are often (and definitely in our case) funnier in
fantasy than when you write them down, proving Women in Cyberspace
that we have both a sense of humor and a sense of January/February 97
discretion.
But there's one award that we want to keep — Call Now!
that’s FBN’s Finest Fire Fighter Award, which goes to
Tricia Fallon, last year’s Catalog Coordinator and all Spring Announcements
around back-up for everything from installing coat
racks to sending out tearsheets. Tricia spent most of March/April
the last three years studying, training, applying, and January 3
then waiting, waiting, waiting for that magic call. She
s at na dr t e wd e ' rw e it ah l l t oh ue t rS aF g e oF uir sle y D pe rp oa ur dtm oe fn t h i en r . September, ABA/BEA Special Issue
And congratulations to Binti Legacy, the first May/June
feminist bookstore in Africa! (See page 15.) And to the
employees of Chicago's Clark Street Borders who May 2
voted in a union. (See page 11.) May all Borders
Volume 19 Number 34 November /December 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsSause
Mothers of Invention Abiding Courage
Women of the Slaveholding South in the African American Migrant
AmDericran e Civwil W ar Gilpin Faust WComoen mand tmhe Easut Bnayity .
“I read with unanticipated fascination, spellbound Gretchen Lemke-Santangelo RN
by the gathered voices, their passion and stamina, “Deeply felt. . . . A valuable Raesnd
their gifts of introspection and observation.” collective portrait of a Fowesin
—RJoesevphiienew H um —phreNys,e wNew YYorok r Tkim es TBoiomk geenser a tiBono’s o ackhi ev emVenitrs.g” iSotini»
326 pp. 38 illus. $29.95 cloth (0-8078-2255-8) Review
Cender and Jim Crow (0-8078-2256-6) *23 2 p$p. 1 $249.9.5 9 cl5oth paper
Women and the Politics of White Supremacy (0-8078-4563-9)
iGnl e nNdoar t hEl i zCaabreotlhin aG, i l1m8o9r6e—1920 ailing Gende Y
“Demands that attention be paid to the pivotal role Public Images, WENCHES
of middle-class African American women in the Personal Journeys, and A 3
making of southern politics.”—Elsa Barkley Brown, Political Cr stigHeS : c9. NX10UsS
University of Michigan Nancy Hewitt, Jean O'Barr, PATRIARCHS
410 pp. $49.95 cloth (0-8078-2287-6) * $17.95 paper and Nancy Rosebaugh, editors
(0-8078-4596-5) “These personally engaged,
Winner of the Lerner-Scott Prize powerful, and moving es-
says testify to the fact that
Cood Wives, Nasty Wenches, and feminist social and cultural
Anxious Patriarchs analysis is alive and well in
Gender, Race, and Power in Colonial Virginia the mid-nineties.”
Kathleen M. Brown —Marianne G. Hirsch,
“Makes good on the promise [that the study of Dartmouth College
women would one day change the way we look at 224 pp. $39.95 cloth
history itself]”—Suzanne Lebsock, University of (0-8078-2288-4) • $16.95 paper
Washington (0-8078-4597-3)
512 pp. $49.95 cloth (0-8078-2307-4) • $19.95 paper
(0-8078-4623-6)
Published for the Institute of Early American History
and Culture, Williamsburg, Virginia
November /December 1996 2. Volume 19 Number 4
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
TBN CONTENTS
Editor & Publisher
Carol Seajay
Assistant Editor Humor
Jenn Tust Publishing. Women’s Humor =... 5. 29
Advertising & Production The Oldest Joke in the Book . . .......... 25
Kathryn Werhane Lesbian Adventure Novels: Get Real! ....... 33
Columnists x
Art Books Tee Corinne Articles S Ainaa F a
Canadian Books Suzanne Bufiam Binti Legacy: Africa’s First Feminist Bookstore . . . 15
Gay Mer's L iHteurmatuorre RRicohza r dW aLrabroennte RBoeotkuprenopsl:e TCoeloe b rMateüsc h2 5 WYeaalrlsp a.p e. r . .. ..=..... . 3 5> > s. 39
Kids’ Lit Linda Bubon Canadian Coment -. sisie uA 43
Music News Barb Smalley Short Raves“ s.. e 45
Mysteries Nan Cinnater BeSISellef5 s r s ir 55
_New Media Derethy Holand Bookstore News, . n R a 19
Ui Pfs m Michel News/Short Stories . 3. -Á r 7
ABA Sells Trade Show • FTC Drops Antitrust Case Against
Proofreading Publishers • Borders Goes Union • Serpent's Tail Closing
Elaine Blake, Sarah Fallon, Sarah Holmes, U.S. Office • Calyx Publishes Nobel Laureate • Women’s
Kirsten Janene-Nelson, Moonyean, Press/U.K. Titles Available in the U.S. e Update: Womyn’s
C a Jt uh ll ie ee n V aM n o o Pr ee l, t , D Se un sa a n T a Wyl ao lr le, r Tr Br ia vill ie a P r es &s • O Cbi otu mary: m Al em na R to aut rso yng ./ .I sa be -l 0 M i lle -r e 21
Cover Art
Judy Horacek, Life on the Edg Ne A (SEpXin i f=e x )s Dse p asr i mi e ne is e io’
F eminSist B ooks tore L News E AnNoUIunc eMeM IS r. . & i e r i5 42
2358 Market Street Back to Press & Other Good News . . . . . . ... 48
s Ea Box SS MI0E Classified Ads. t R 128
F| I N: Ta h ie yS u bWscerniptt io Tn h Iantf-oAr-mWataiyon'. .. . . . . . -,. s.s.w-.-.. 4409
Printed in USA Writing Wanted 2 tpa.. riie 54
FEMINIST BOOKSTORE NEWS is the communications
vFehBicNle frore a tchhe e isn f o5rm0a0l nfetewmorikn oifs t f e manindis t fboeomkstionreiss.t-inclined book- The Books
sIsenltldeorisr a , e in s J E anpign alan n d t,a h nEduer o pKUe,e . n SAyu. ast. r a alLniai,d b r N aerCwi a a Znnesaa ,la dn da w, o :mas e n 'w s e sl tl u d iW es Co a n aA di a nB O BO OOK KS S.. N e 9 a s . a e e e M t 5 7R 87
tpeahchielress, bcoookm rpevrieiwseer s , t phueb li srheerms aanidn dfeemri n isotf b ibtlhio-e G asyu bMsecnr's i bLietr. ss. t K e i di s T’ 7 Lit 60
Letters, articles, and news items should be received the RNg ape TMN SSH
first Friday of the month preceding publication. Signed Mysteries . O aA C R 67
articles and letters are the responsibility of the authors. MUSIC NEWS >. = ae a e e e 71
FpEuMblIiNshIeSdT bBiO-mOKoSnTtOhlRyE iNn E WJaSn u (aIrSySN, : M 0a7r4c1h.6, 5 5M5a) y i,s JNuElyW, - MWend i aP rse. s spe s . e 2 e. ee ee EeN .i 9e1 Rp 59
NSeEpWtSe m atb e2r35, 8 a Mnadr k eNt o vStermeetb,e rS a nb yFr anFcEisMcoI,N ICSAT 9 4B1O14O. K PSuTbOlisRhEer s O RuOrW O . M = . P> >R - e1 1o7
Periodicals Postage paid at San Francisco, CA. POST- Science. Fiction & Fantasy -s-i 61
MASTER: Please send address changes to FEMINIST II P 101
BCOOAKS TO R9E4 N1E8W8S, - P2O 5 B5ox4 .8 82 5U54,n Sianv eFrransciiscto,y S m aPll r Preesssesse. s. .i e 3 r. i kS A 109
Volume 19 Number 4 3 November /December 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
A life-saving resource for
victims of domestic violence.
Thousands of women are abused, stalked, battered, and killed by their
husbands or lovers every year. This important book provides detailed,
up-to-the-minute information that can help secure their safety.
Susan Murphy-Milano, the nationally-known founder of Project:
Protect, explains how to deal with police and the courts, how to make
the decision to leave, how to secure a home and safeguard children,
how to defend against stalking, how family and friends can help.
Defending Our Lives is the essential handbook for women in danger that
could mean the difference between life and death.
GETTING F
AWAY FROM BF
DOMESTIC n
VIOLENCE
& STAYING “A smart,
SAFE step-by-step
plan. If you
don’t need it,
Y SANDRA DIONISI/SIS g ive it as a gift.
—Susan Estrich,
author of Real Rape
Available wherever paperbacks are sold SUSAN MURPHY-MILANO
ÂNCHOR BOOKS FOUNDER OF PROJECT: PROTECT
A division of Bantam Doubleday Dell Publishing Group, Inc.
Visit our web site at www.bdd.com
en one life is lost, we all lose.
November /December 1996 4 Volume 19 Number 4
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Dear Friends, hundreds of women in the audiences. The whole thing
Well known lesbian author/editor Victoria has been a great buzz — and financially very good for us!
Brownworth, who copes with compromised health The Listener Women’s Book Festival is now a
(as she wrote about in Too Queer), recently suffered a biennial event so we took the initiative and ran some-
stroke and a broken arm, underwent two major sur- thing ourselves for this year. It was so successful (all
geries, and is facing yet another operation. the authors in one place at the same time, rather than
She is a freelancer with minimal health insurance. flying past each other all over the country) that we
Her laptop computer, which she uses for her income, have decided to make our weekend biennial too.
is malfunctioning (IBM clone, non-windows based, she It is interesting to note that there has been a huge
uses Wordperfect 5.1). Her lover, award winning film- increase in writing (especially fiction) by NZ women
maker Judith Redding, is Victoria's primary caregiver. in the last couple of years — the result, I am sure, of
They need help immediately. A fund has been eight years of the Listener Women’s Book Festival
established for her. Wishes of good cheer and dona- fostering women’s writing and giving it a profile and
tions of any size are urgently needed. Make checks a marketing tool.
payable to Victoria Brownworth Fund and mail to: So, we are in better shape than we have ever been
Brownworth Fund c/o Judith Redding, 478 Apple in our seven-and-a-half-year history and I have
Drive, Exton PA 19341. decided to come to ABA next year to participate in all
We all need help sometime. Each of us can make the feminist bookstore activities.
a difference. Carole Beu
Tee A. Corinne Judith Katz
Ruthann Robson Lee Lynch
Barbara Grier Donna J. McBride
Mabel Maney Nancy K. Bereano
Terri de la Pena Karla Jay The three-day event offered books, readings, conversations,
Nikki Baker Beverly A. Brown panels, workshops and more. It opened with a workshop
Barbara Wilson Valerie Taylor titled Asking and Unmasking: Revealing the True Issues
Musawa & Mother Tongue Ink Surrounding Politics, Economics and Human Rights fea-
turing Marilyn Wating (Three Masquerades) and Anne
Else (False Economy) in conversation with Chair Jane
The Women’s Bookshop Kelsey (The New Zealand Experiment) — “three of the
228 Dominion Road most challenging and creative thinkers of our time.” Satur-
Auckland 3 New Zealand day morning Dr. Elizabeth Harding and her partner Diane
Dear FBN, Bush, who spent two years running a hospital in a rugged
We have just held a marvelous Women’s Book and remote area of the Himalayas, talked about their expe-
Weekend — highly successful, featuring 26 of New riences with cold, culture shock and chauvinism in a work-
Zealand's top women writers (flown to Auckland from shop titled “You Are a Brave Man.” Other Festival
all around the country by their publishers), with highlights included a panel of publishing women who
Volume 19 Number 4 November /December 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
publish women, an evening of storytelling, and workshops work we're doing already (since I stock the Women’s
on writing fiction, surfing the net in search of women’s and Gay/Lesbian section, I'd be shooting myself in
literature, and feeling fabulous. the foot). It’s just tremendously exciting making the
cognitive leap from “There’s gotta be something we
can do” to reading your magazine and basically being
Laugh Lines Press handed the blueprints and adrenaline to do it. You
PO Box 259 give a great sense of there being a big picture to see
Bala Cynwyd PA 19004 beyond our standard squabbles. An example? It took
Dear FBN, reading FBN to alert me to Milk and Honey, a feminist
I loved, loved, loved the latest issue. It’s very activist bookstore that’s right across the street from Copper-
in tone and full of useful stuff. field’s! Talk about overinsulation.
Thanks for the followup on the Ms. situation. Not Heather L. Seggel
to mention the attempted unionization of my local
Borders. We locals were absolutely thrilled and delighted
when the move to unionize Borders first turned up and Deep South Distribution
very sorry that it didn’t fly this time around. PO Box 754
Best, Grahamstown 6140
Roz Warren South Africa
Dear Friends,
Having followed FBN reports on the ABA to date,
Copperfield’s Books I would be very interested in hearing alternatives to the
PO Box 139 structuring and administration of such a convention,
Cazadero CA 95421 from independent (and small) booksellers and publishers.
Dear FBN, As an independent bookseller in distress I am
Hi! I wanted to take a moment to thank you for seeking a second vocation co-ordinating a book fair
the sample copy of FBN — you've completely altered for a non-profit heritage organisation.
my perspective on bookselling for the better, and Any suggestions would be greatly appreciated.
given me several ideas that can improve sales in our Paul Wessels
women’s and gay/lesbian sections. What an absolute
gem of a resource!
Jane Evershed Card Collection
PO Box 8874
Minneapolis MN 55408
Dear FBN,
I'm a part-time bookseller at Copperfield’s Books More Than A Tea Party?
in Sebastopol (the original store in what's now a coun- “Dangerous” feminist books are not being promoted
tywide chain). In the two years that I've been with the by the larger pubishing companies these days, passivity
company, I've seen our struggle as an independent via the soul has the limelight. Prominent radical feminists
chain trying to hold our own against two big discount are being axed, some books even shredded! My book,
stores distort our focus on the community we're here to More Than A Tea Party, sold 13,000 copies in less than two
serve. When the wolf is at your door, it’s easy to forget years but it was remaindered anyway. I was able to track
the other folks getting chomped outside. ClaireLight down the remainders so it will be available through my
Books in Santa Rosa, and By The Book in Guerneville, existing business. Others are not so fortunate. Feminism is
both wonderful resources, are now gone (for a variety a very necessary step toward true consciousness. Beware!
of reasons), leaving a lot of gay, lesbian, and feminist Jane Evershed
booklovers looking for a new place to call their own.
Reading FBN it occurred to me: We can be that place. More Than A Tea Party is a full color book of art and poetry, to
I don't mean in any way to minimize the good order call toll free 888-667-0599. ($12, 50% for 6+.)1 o
November /December 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsABA Sells Trade Show FTC Inexplicably
—BookExpo America— Drops Antitrust Case
Against Publishers
In a move that took its membership by surprise,
the American Booksellers Association sold its remain- In a move that puzzled and angered independent
ing 51% of the ABA Trade Show & Convention to booksellers, the Federal Trade Commission has aban-
Association Expositions & Services (AE&S), the divi- doned 17 years of investigation and negotiation (and
sion of Reed Exhibition Companies that purchased delay) into the question of whether Random House,
49% of the show in 1993. The show will be renamed HarperCollins, Macmillan, Morrow, Putnam, and
BookExpo America (BEA). Terms were not announced Simon & Schuster violated the Robinson-Patman Act
at the time of the sale but later reports were that ABA by favoring large bookstore chains with price and
will receive a $17M cash payment, that ABA has com- promotional discounts that were not made available
mitted to running the booksellers educational to independent bookstores.
program and to holding its annual meeting in con- The investigation began in 1979, following the suc-
junction with BEA for the next ten years, and that ABA cessful Northern California Independent Booksellers
stands to make as much as $25M in show royalties Association's lawsuits charging mass market publish-
during that time. ABA received $17M for the 49% ers with similar discrimination. In 1988 the FTC
interest in the show it sold in 1993. investigated and charged the six corporate publishers
While the sale took many members by surprise, with illegal pricing practices. Consent agreements were
explanations for the sale abound. ABA President signed by the named publishers in 1992, but were never
Barbara Bonds Thomas and ABA Executive Director ratified by the full Commission or implemented, pend-
Bernie Rath published a letter to ABA members in ing, it would seem, exploration of similar trade
Bookselling This Week stating that “The ABA's annual practices with a publisher not named in the 1988
trade show and convention is less about the relation- charges, Bantam Doubleday Dell. Industry observers
ship between booksellers and publishers and more expressed concern at the time that the consent orders
about being a book-industry event... [I]t is our consid- would be useless if other publishers engaged in similar
ered opinion that it is time to cash out and move on to practices because that would allow all publishers to
other activities which are more relevant to the day-to- argue that they were simply “meeting the competition.”
day struggle for survival our members face.” Negotiations with BDD were reported to be
Others described the declining attendance by “nearing an end” for several years, but they seemed
ABA member stores, the extreme dissatisfaction with to have stopped about the time that Robert Pitofsky,
the stagnant location, the flight of core corporate pub- who had served as BDD’s outside counsel during the
lishers from the show in recent years (Simon & FTC's probe of BDD activities, was appointed chair-
Schuster, Penguin, St. Martin's, Random House and man of the FTC in 1995.
Putnam have all declined to exhibit at the 1997 con- In dismissing the complaints, the Commission did
vention), ABA‘s vulnerability to publisher boycotts as not make any statement that the cited publishers were
ABA continues to pursue a level playing field for not in violation of the Robinson-Patman Act. The
See ABA Sells Show, next page. See FTC Drops Case, page 9.
November /December 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
ABA Sells Show, continued from page 7. numbers” as well as to continue to draw independent
independent booksellers, publishers concerns that the booksellers. Tracks for nontraditional booksellers will
high cost of exhibiting at ABA exceeds the benefits of also be added to the show's educational program.
attending, the show's shift — instigated in part by BEA plans to create an Event Advisory Board, which
ABA — away from being bookseller focused and will include representation from ABA as well as other
toward being an international rights show, the industry segments, to decide such matters as which
unwieldiness of the show as ABA has pushed to authors and public figures will be invited to appear at
expand both the total amount of space rented and the the show. Not surprisingly, BEA has stressed it’s inter-
price of booths, the lack of attention paid to booksell- est in continuing to grow the show.
ers at the show, and independent booksellers’ ABA plans to shift its focus to its mission of
declining marketshare of the book industry. education and supporting the bookseller community
Booksellers have expressed a number of concerns including increased focus on developing its own
including that the BEA will shift to being a chain- insurance and programs offering better rates on ship-
focused show, that BEA will de-emphasize the role of ping and merchant credit card processing.
independent bookstores, that independent bookstores BookExpo America 1997 will be held May
and the ABA will lose a significant platform for our 31-June 2, 1997 at McCormick Place Complex in
agendas, and that media attention to independent Chicago. The show will remain in Chicago for the next
bookstores will decline. Others have voiced concern several years, but a future move has not been ruled
that the ABA organization will become increasingly out. AES is aware that some exhibitors and attendees
removed from the membership if fewer members are unhappy at being tied to one site.
attend BEA and consequently fewer members attend Reed Exhibition also produces the London Book
the ABA's annual meetings. Strong member interven- Fair, Salon du Livre, and the Tokyo Book Fair. The
tion at annual meetings, including the resolutions that global parent company, Reed Elsevier also owns
-drove the initial lawsuit and the development of Cahners (Publishers Weekly, Library Journal, and School
National Independent Bookstore Week, have signifi- Library Journal), R.R. Bowker (Books in Print and
cantly altered ABA's direction in recent years. Literary Market Place), as well as book publishing con-
Two booksellers at NCIBA’s regional trade show, cerns. The Reed Elsevier group has annual sales in
commenting on the relative wealth of ABA’s national excess of $5.7 billion and over 25,000 employees. For
organization in contrast to the financial struggles of information about BookExpo America call 203-840-
most of its members, suggested that members might 5460 or write to BookExpo America at 383 Main Ave.,
best be served by closing the organization and divid- Norwalk CT 06852 or check their web site at
ing the $36M ABA received for the show, plus the (http://www.reed-elsevier.com).
projected $25M royalty, among its 5,000 members. That
would come to $7,000 per member store immediately
plus an additional $5,000 per store paid over the next Holt Bolts
ten years — not counting ABA's other assets.
BEA, inadvertently perhaps, seems to validate Holt is the latest to join the list. of mainstream
independents’ fears. “Given the market changes publishers that will not be attending BookExpo Amer-
affecting the bookselling and publishing industries, it ica. Holt has concluded that with all of the show's
makes sense to create a distinction between the event, drawbacks and the costs continuing to rise, attending
which encompasses many interrelated industries, and the show no longer makes economic sense. Holt’s presi-
the Association, whose mission is to serve the book- dent Michael Naumann cited a number of reasons for
seller portion of the market,” said Pat Dolson, deciding not to attend BEA including that BEA has
president of Reed Exhibition Companies. The new become primarily a rights show and Holt sees the peo-
name for the show, she continued, “better represents ple it needs to see in New York; the declining numbers
the changing distribution channels” in the industry. of booksellers attending the show; that most of the
BEA also intends to bring “other, non-traditional actual sales Holt makes at ABA are to the institutional
channels of book distribution to the show in greater market; and his “severe problems with Chicago.” O
November /December 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
FTC Drops Case, continued from page 7. for dismissing the complaints, a conclusion that the
Commission’s statement claims, without citing any evi- respondents did not engage in unlawful price dis-
dence, that “it appears that major book publishers crimination...is noticeably absent from the
generally have modified pricing and promotional prac- Commission’s order.” She then criticizes each of the
tices,” an odd statement given that ABA has only four reasons the majority offered stating, “It is not at
recently reached out-of-court settlements against five all clear how...changes [the growth of ‘superstores’
other publishers and that ABA is currently involved in and warehouse or ‘club’ stores] might mitigate the
a lawsuit with Random House, one of the “FTC-6,” over practice [illegal price discrimination].... Indeed, one
the sameissues. The FTC expressed concern that further could speculate that the growth of significant dis-
investigation would be “time-consuming and resource- count retailers would result in more rather than less
intensive” and that new orders might not be effective price discrimination against disfavored retailers.”
because publishers might be able to get around them by She argues that “to the extent that the proposed
using the meeting-the-competition argument, but consent orders were inadequate...the Commission
stated that “further investigation does not appear to be could have sought appropriate revisions in the pro-
a...prudent use of scarce public resources.” The final posed consent orders or it could have rejected the
Order Returning Matters to Adjudication and Dismiss- orders and returned the matters to adjudication” and
ing Complaints, ironically, also cited the ABA's success proposes, “If what the majority means to suggest is
in addressing these same issues in its own litigation. that if book publishers not under order also are engag-
ing in discriminatory pricing, the solution would
Independent booksellers, including those who appear to be to initiate additional investigations, not
have lost their businesses and their livelihoods due to to dismiss the complaints.”
unfair competition, disagreed strongly with the FTC She concludes, “As far as I know, the Commission
decision. never before has deemed enforcement of the Robin-
It appears that FTC Commissioner Mary L. son-Patman Act fruitless on the ground that a
Azcuenaga also found the decision to be absurd. In respondent under order could meet the presump-
her Dissenting Statement she states that “the Commis- tively lawful prices of its competitors and it seems a
sion has inexplicably also failed to act on the proposed very odd preposition to adopt.”
consent orders... I do not understand and certainly And, “Finally, the majority cites the success that
cannot endorse this decision.” the American Booksellers Association has had in its
She also stated, “The most obvious justification private Robinson-Patman suits against several
zines.
You simply | return what doesr so s with ita
call | us for a free catalog.
Rne Print t Distributors nc
0 Pampa Dri i
November /December 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
publishers. The Association has negotiated settle-
A “powerful first novel by Tejana ments with four publishers. The implication is that
Emma Pérez.” —Lesbian Review of Books the Association's success should somehow stand in
for the Commission’s law enforcement. This is very
confusing, when the same majority suggests that a
mere six FTC orders would have been ineffective.
“The unfortunate choice to dismiss the com-
plaints may indeed save ‘scarce public resources’
from further expenditure in these cases, but it is an
imprudent waste of substantial law enforcement
resources that this agency already has expended.
“1 dissent.”
In the final analysis, the FTC’s very strange deci-
sion, especially in light of the ABA’s relative success
in pursuing these matters and the odd coincidence of
the appointment of one of the counsel to head the
agency in the midst of the agency’s inability to pro-
gress on the case, underscore a bitter truth that civil
rights lawyers and oppressed people have known for
years: Justice in this country is the province of those
who can afford their own lawyers. —CS O
Serpent’s Tail Closing
U.S. Office
“Pérez creates a Chicana lesbian Citing “difficult trading conditions and excessive
and unpredictable returns,” Pete Ayrton, publisher of
cultural terrain.” —Gloria Anzaldúa, the British-based independent press, has decided to
author of Borderlands/La Frontera close Serpent's Tail’s U.S. office in December. Books
will continue to be distributed by Consortium.
“Gulf Dreams is a powerful, gripping, Serpent's Tail is best known in the U.S. for the New
and disturbing story of passion and York-based High Risk Books imprint which was pub-
betrayal, survival and vengeance. Alis mh yed S b chy o ldIr ea r . S i Alv ye rr tb oe nr g w ia ln l d s ee ed i t te hd r o ub gy h S til hv ee r b pe ur bg li c a an -d
Pérez’s lyrical voice and highly tion of those titles acquired by its U.S. editors and will
controlled style are unique and continue to commission challenging U.S. fiction and
a uu tn hf oo rr g oe ft t a Tb hle e. ” — PrT ae cr te is ca e d oe f L La ou vr ee : t i Ls, esbian bn oo on k- sf i A c ct cui co r on r re. d n iA t nl g y p tu i onb l i Sc t ii h ls vet e rpw bi ei pl rl e g l i ,b n e e “ . W h hir ie led tt ho e p Hr io gm ho t Re i st khe
Sexuality and Perverse Desire imprint brought both visibility and prestige to Ser-
Available from: p ofen ť i’ ns c rT ea ai sl e, d i t r e tw ua rs n sn o at n de n lo ou wg eh r t ao d v o au nt cw ese i g fh ro mth e t h d eemand
Small Press Distributors: 1-800-869-7553 stores; thus, our U.K. publisher has chosen a path
Bookpeople: 1-800-999-4650 which is geared to decreasing overheads in an effort
Womansource: 1-800-243-0138 to create better economies for the house.” Silverberg
will stay on through the end of the year to see the
Published by Third Woman Press Spring list into production. o
November /December 1996 10
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Calyx Publishes the U.S. Trafalgar distributes several other British
Nobel Laureate publishers in the U.S. as well. Books are expected to
be available in October. Trafalgar ’s sales reps will call
When the Nobel Prize for Literature was on feminist bookstores throughout the U.S. The pack-
age they will be repping will be comprised of “new”
awarded to Polish poet Wislawa Szymborska, Calyx titles which haven’t previously been distributed in the
editors were already familiar with Ms. Symborska’s U.S. and backlist U.S. bestsellers, but all of the titles to
poetry — they had published her poetry in English which Women’s Press has U.S. rights can be ordered
t Ir na tn esl rat nio an t i oin n aC la l y Wx’s o mfif et nh ’ s an Wniv re ir tsa ir ny g .a n t Sh yo mlog by o rof ska’s from BT ar ca kf la isl tg a r t i tS leq su a r ine. clude books by American writ-
p Oo ldet s,r y w hw oa s w t ar sa n ns ola tt e d w e lb ly -k nN oe ww n Y ao t r k t h ep o e tt im S eh a br uo tn who ers that are no longer available in U.S. editions (Suzy
has since gained international attention for her own MM oc tK he ee r lC inh ea sr , n a Ks r’ i sW tia nl k H t uo n t et rh 'e s E Son ud l o Bf r o tt hh ee r sW ao nr dld Sa in std er
poetry. It was Old’s translations of the remarkable Lou, Judith Arcana’s Every Mother's Son and Our
p Inoe ttr ey r. n aof t i oW ni asl la w a W S oz mym eb no ’r ss k a W t rh ia tt i nin gsp ir ae nd t hth oe logy issue. M Cho ot ph ie nr )s ’ a sD a u wg eh llt e r ass sa tn rd o n T gh e B r A itw isa hk e tn ii tn leg s b sy u c hK a t ase Not a
CC oo npi se os r t io uf m ,t h e $ 1 0i .ssue are still available from Calyx and P Leas ss bi in ang P Hh isa ts oe r: y R e Gc rla oi um pi ,n g R eL ades eb ri a n I s M i un r d H eris et do r y H i mb :y the
Calyx was founded in 1976 in Corvallis, Oregon Crime Fiction by Women, Caeia March’s novels Three
and is celebrating its twentieth anniversary this year. Ply Yarn and Fire! Fire!, Joan Riley’s The Unbelonging
Underfunded from its inception, the first issue of and Waiting in the Twilight, and Marie Cardinal's
Calyx was laid out on borrowed equipment in Corval- Devotion and Disorder. See “From Our Own Presses”
lis’ City Hall. In 1986 Calyx expanded into book for ordering information. O
publishing, building on it’s reputation for recognizing
writers first or early in their careers.
Best-selling author Barbara Kingsolver congratu- Chicago Borders Store
lated the publishers on their twentieth anniversary, Goes Union
saying, “Calyx holds a special place in my heart. Some
of my very first published words — two poems — ‘ In the third union vote taken at Borders stores,
were published by Calyx years ago. I've never forgot- Chicago's Clark Street Borders employees said yes to
ten the thrill of turning those beautifully illustrated unionizing and elected United Food Commercial
pages and seeing my name, my earnest words, printed Union Local 881 to represent them.
there alongside those of some of my literary heroines. Greg Popek, one of the employee organizers, said
Ilct ommade pmea fneely as ifo If b elo nwgedo tmo thee nim.p”or ta ntƏ that employees were concerned about wages, bene-
fits, grievance procedures and work hours. He cited a
25% increase in health coverage copayments, an “at
will” employment agreement that employees are
Women’s Press/ required to sign that allows the chain to fire employ-
U.K. Titles ees at any time without notice, and variations in pay
Finally Available in the U.S. from store to store for similar responsibilities.
Marilyn Slankard, v-p of marketing for Borders,
Women’s Press/U.K. titles have been unavailable was quoted in PW as saying, “We are disappointed,
in the U.S., officially, since the demise of the Inland but we will bargain in good faith.”
organization in Connecticut, but most titles had been The Clark Street Borders is the first chain store to
out of stock at the U.S. warehouse for a long time unionize in the country. Union drives at other stores
before Inland‘s bankruptcy was officially declared. continue. Bookstore employees are expected by many
In September The Women’s Press/U.K. finalized to be in the forefront of the drive to unionize employ-
a distribution arrangement with Trafalgar Square in ees of the national retail chains. o
11 November /December 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
cataloging our books for inclusion in the “National
Union Catalog,” a list of books produced by libraries
affiliated with NLS. Each book has been assigned a
number beginning with “CBF,” for titles circulated
through the Florida library. Copies have been made
for distribution. Although their work is far from com-
plete, and has taken longer than we anticipated,
nearly 600 titles can now be circulated.
In December, 1994 we shipped our collection of WBP subscribers who are tape or Braille users
over 800 books on 4-track tape and in Braille to the were sent an index of these 600 books this summer.
Bureau of Braille and Talking Book Services in Daytona Copies of the index are also available to print read-
Beach, Florida, after this library agreed to take on distri- ers (see resources). The index lists items in
bution of our titles through the network of National alphabetical order by author, followed by title, then
Library Service libraries for the Blind and Physically order number. Unlike our 1994 catalog, which
Handicapped (NLS). Incorporating the books we had included descriptions of books and was divided by
been producing for 14 years into the NLS system was subject, this is a single list. It should be used in
our best alternative when the core group of volunteers conjunction with our catalog to order those titles
running WBP found we could not continue the enor- now available for circulation (see resources). We
mous amount of work this project requires. need to receive your requests for indexes and cata-
This transition has been slow; we may hold the logs by December 1, 1996. The catalog will be your
record for the “organization taking the longest time best means of inquiring in the future about other
going out of business.” The staff at the Bureau of books that had been part of WBP’s collection. We are
Braille and Talking Book Services has been gradually investigating the possibility of a Web site for infor-
mation on WBP where updates could be posted
about titles as they become available. Let us know if
WOMEN RESHAPING HUMAN RIGHTS you have suggestions for possible low-cost sites.
H aro ew C E hx antr ga io nr gd i n thar ey W A oc rt li dvists Th hav ee se n U io nn t cf lo ubr det eeu nn aa lt p le r l oy oc f, e s t s oh e ude r r e b B y ra ar ie t ll h e es t ti sl il t t a l efo sfv , e r a a t l l 2 t0 oh0 f e t ti B ht ul ee r s e ba out oh . ka st
originally produced by Lambda Resource Center for
by Marguerite Bouvard, the Blind and acquired by WBP, and a significant
W HOUMMENAN R ERSIHGAHPTISNG _th e R ec vr oi lt uic ta ioll ny i z ia nc gc la Mim oe td h e ra hut oh odor of number of our recorded books. Some of these are titles
_ H o Aw s CE hxt anra go ir nd gi n ta hry e WAc ot ri lv dist: “A compelling account of w the e i rc o u pl ud b ln ise hv ee rr oo rb t aa uin t h op re .r m Ni Lss Si o n w o nto ’t d ci is rt cr uib lau tt ee bf or oo km s
e wx ot mra eo nr d i wn har oy h c avon e t e rm esp ho ar pa er dy without written permission. However, Congress
national and international recently passed legislation permitting organizations
agendas...” to produce materials in Braille or on 4-track cassette
— HuE mls aa n S t Ra im ghat to s p o Lu al wou y, er, without obtaining permissions from publishers. If
Center for HUunmitaend RNiagthiotns,s t mh ei rs p tir to lv esis io wn c a bn a ap vp al iy lr ee t r agoa ac inti ,v e nly ot, a jull o f o ou ser ff ro or m-
i ll e la b s t t h
SR Books offer generous retail responsive publishers.
_ 4d -i 4sc 9o u cn ot ps i: e s :1 - 3 4 5 %co ; p i 5e 0s +: 4 c0 o% pi; es: 50%. You should request former WBP books from your
Place Your Order Today! local NLS library, either by CBF number, title or
author. Librarians will have computer access to infor-
mation about these books and will contact the library
SR BOOKS in Daytona Beach, which will then send the book
104 Greenhill Ave. * Wilmington, DE 19805 • 800-772-8937 • 302-654-7713 directly to you. When you finish a book, return it to
this Florida library.
November /December 1996 12
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
We learned recently that staff at some NLS librar-
ies will not order books for patrons through
inter-library loan (books not produced by the NLS
program itself). We don’t know how widespread this
problem is, but needless to say, we are outraged to
learn that such a basic service may be denied to some
people. We will take whatever action we can with NLS
to insure that our books continue to be available to Your hedrf line
everyone. If your library staff are reluctant, extremely is buried under
slow or unwilling to order these books for you, com-
plain to the head of your library, the state agency that our deadlines
oversees it, and then to the NLS in Washington.
If you have a print disability and do not already
receive literature through the NLS program, see infor-
mation at the end of this letter about enrolling in this
service. WBP subscribers in other countries should
contact their own libraries such as the Canadian Na-
tional Institute for the Blind, which can request NLS
books from the U.S. for their patrons.
Since our April 1995 letter, much of our equipment
has been distributed, though we still have a number of
4-track recorders to donate to organizations involved
with taping projects. If you know of an organization in
need of taping equipment to make print publications j E NA O iA Y t b
accessible, please let us know. We also still have our L v AN YOS:
oldest Telex high speed duplicator that we want to Unrequited Love by Judy Horacek
donate to an organization in need of such equipment.
This spring, we circulated a notice soliciting applica- discovered WBP or were a long-time subscriber, the
tions from feminist and disability projects for some end -of this organization represents an enormous loss.
$4,000 remaining in WBP’s bank account. We received We know that while transferring our books to an NLS
a number of requests, and will be making decisions library was our best alternative, it’s far from an ideal
about granting those funds this fall. solution. We deeply thank the staff of the Daytona
WBP documents have recently been sent to three Beach library for coming forward to adopt our collec-
archives, the Lesbian Herstory Archives, Heartland Les- tion, and are proud we've seen this process through.
bian Feminist Archives, and the Minnesota Historical We also value the support and best wishes from sub-
Society, and will be available to the public once they are scribers, volunteers, donors and friends. Thanks for
cataloged. Some of the items, such as issues of the WBP your participation over the years.
Newsletter, have gone to all three archives. Otherwise, We know that a project like WBP is still needed,
different materials were sent to each of them. Docu- especially when we hear the responses of women con-
ments include: meeting minutes, brochures, articles on tacting us for the first time who've learned that we're
the organization, and recordings of public WBP events. going out of business. Along with all of you, we hope
We plan to have distributed our remaining that another project will emerge to meet that need.
funds and assets and close WBP’s bank account by
the end of this year, thus ending WBP’s official exist- Resources:
ence as a nonprofit organization. Taking this final Copies of the index to former WBP books, listing
step will be difficult. WBP has been a vital, active authors, titles and book numbers are available free in
organization for more than a dozen years. Braille, print, large print, on cassette and on computer
We understand that whether you have recently disk for IBM or Mac. Requests must be placed before
13 November /December 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
December 1, 1996, and must include choice of format.
The 1994 WBP catalog, which was distributed on
tape dated 1993, is available for free in regular print or
on 4-track cassette, and on computer disk for IBM or
Mac. Make your requests before December 1, 1996,
and include choice of format.
Send requests to WBP’s mailing address, or
e-mail (schn0105@maroon.tc.umn.edu).
For more information about enrolling in the
National Library Service for the Blind and Physically
Handicapped, and to locate your nearest regional
library, contact NLS toll-free at 800-424-8567.
To contact the Bureau of Braille and Talking Book
Services directly, call 904-239-6050; or write to 420
Platt St., Daytona Beach FL 32114.
Contact the Lesbian Herstory Archives at 718-
768-3953 to make an appointment to browse or do
research; fax 718-768-4663; write to PO Box 1258, New
York NY 10016. : i
Contact the Heartland Lesbian Feminist Archives
at 715-698-2609 to schedule a visit; or write to W3419
850 Ave., Spring Valley WI 54767. purchased a copy of A Place for Us, which she later
i Contact the Minnesota Historical Society at 612- recommended to Sheedy. Sheedy was convinced that
296-1430; 345 W. Kellogg Blvd., St. Paul MN 55102. O she could place it, Alma agreed to let her, and Joyce
Johnston acquired it for McGraw-Hill on the book’s
second trip out. The title was changed to Patience and
Alma Routsong/Isabel Miller Sarah and it was published in a cloth edition and a
1924-1996 book club edition before Leona Nevler bought the
paperback rights for Fawcett Crest. Patience and Sarah
Alma Routsong, author of Patience and Sarah, one went on to become a classic and has stayed in print
of the most beloved lesbian novels of all time, died at continuously since its first trade publication in 1972.
her home in upstate New York after a long illness on Routsong/Miller always intended to write a
October 3. She was surrounded by her loving family. sequel to Patience and Sarah but was never able to work
In 1969, having enjoyed two midlist successes with her way through that particular writers’ block. Instead
a very prestigious publisher, Alma Routsong set out to she continued the themes in two of her short stories and
place her third novel, A Place for Us. After being rejected went on to write The Love of Good Women, Side By Side,
by “every house in New York,” she published the novel and A Dooryard Full of Flowers, all published, at her
herself, under the imprint Bleeker Street Press, using the insistence, with the lesbian-oriented Naiad Press. Her
pseudonym Isabel (an anagram for Lesbia) Miller. final novel, Laurel, will be released in November. One of
A couple years later, when Columbia University her last days was spent approving the edited book.
was the scene of a major Women’s Liberation Confer- Alma Routsong/Isabel Miller is survived by
ence, Miller was there, selling copies of A Place for Us four daughters and her longtime companion, Julie
out of a brown paper shopping bag. Charlotte Sheedy, Weber. Memorial contributions may be sent in her
then attending Columbia and working freelance as a name to the ACLU, Hospice, or the National Gay and
book scout, was also there — selling, legend has it, Lesbian Task Force. Or, better yet, share a copy of
perfume that she had concocted as a fund-raiser for Patience and Sarah, and its story, with a friend who
women’s liberation. Sheedy’s co-conspirator doesn’t already know it. —CS O
November /December 1996 14
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Africa’s First
Feminist Bookstore:
Binti
Legacy
on the mezzanine floor of the beautiful Loita
House, the newest and most modern mall in
downtown Nairobi. Binti occupies a huge
space in a building that also features a large
courtyard that the bookstore is free to use for
By Carol Seajay parties, events, performances and children’s pro-
grams. The store is fully computerized (using
Several hundred people showed up to help Anthology for inventory and Books in Print on
launch Africa’s first feminist bookstore, Binti Legacy, CD-ROM) and depends on two networked computers.
in Nairobi. The June opening, framed as an important Binti features books published in Africa as well as
cultural event, was covered on TV, in all the national books imported from the U.K. and the U.S. Aoko has
papers and commanded front-page news locally. Binti traveled to the U.K. to set up accounts with publishers;
is also getting excellent coverage for its programs for she was the only feminist bookstore at the Zimbabwe
women and children. Binti is Swahili for “daughter,
girl or young woman.”
In Africa, as elsewhere in the developing world,
most women do not have access to appropriate infor-
mation that meets their different and special needs.
Gender sensitive literature and information is hard to
find in Kenya and, when available, it tends to be buried
under conventional issues and contemporary literature.
But with the global trend towards gender sensitivity
and the media’s attention to raising gender awareness
and highlighting the needs of women, founder Aoko
Midiwo-Odembo believes that the time is right to
launch a feminist bookstore in Kenya.
But launching a feminist bookstore in East Africa
is a complicated venture. Retail space is at a premium
in Nairobi and finding a good location for the store
required signing a lease in 1994 for space in an unfin-
ished building that was scheduled to be completed in
the spring of 1995. Delays in finishing the building
meant delays in opening the bookstore. But the wait
was worth it. Binti Legacy finally opened June 3, 1996,
Volume 19 Number 4 15 November /December 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
International Bookfair and she traveled to the Beijing
Conference as well. In the U.S., an old friend, Dan
Hoffman, has become something of an expert in order-
ing both familiar and obscure feminist and
development titles from the widest possible range of
publishers. In the process of helping to stock the store psychological and personal development; relation-
he has also learned the ins and outs of intercontinental ships; pregnancy, parenting and childcare; yoga and
shipping and negotiating for terms appropriate for meditation; law and human rights; political activism;
books that will endure the long journey to Africa. Dan humor; poetry and drama; gardening, home improve-
devotes a day a week to keeping Binti supplied with all ment and cookery; family life; health; self-image and
the latest and most important titles. His work is facili- beauty; character building; business and careers;
`tated by Sprints no-longer-available “Free on Friday” religion; violence against women; and recovery.
international calling program, which allows Aoko and The young women’s books are, perhaps, closest to
Dan to stay in frequent telephone and fax contact. FBN Aoko’s heart. “We can make a tremendous difference
was able to interview Aoko by phone thanks to a con- in the lives of these young girls by showing them that
ference Dan arranged on this line. they have options,” she told FBN. Titles for children
Many publishers, recognizing the uniqueness include poetry and early learning, picture books and
and importance of this new venture, have extended biographies as well as books on character building.
special terms to the new store and/or have offered Titles for young people will be gender sensitive, reflec-
90-day billing in recognition of the extended shipping tive of Kenya's multi-ethnic culture, and will show
time. Whenever possible, Binti is becoming the East young people of both genders as independent,
African distributor for publishers’ lines, thus earning resourceful, caring and emotional individuals. Per-
a distributor’s discount on top of the normal book- haps even more important than stocking the books in
store discount and expanding their base of operations the store, Binti Legacy is setting up programs to dis-
to distributing otherwise impossible-to-get titles to tribute books to schools throughout Kenya.
bookstores throughout East Africa. Binti is also committed to stocking development
Women in Nairobi are more than ready for the materials and “gray literature” — pamphlets and
books. The environment is liberal and there’s a critical other materials that have been created by and for
mass of strong, independent women who are inter- women in developing areas and are published by
ested in women’s issues, want the literature, and have women, NGOs or other non-traditional publishers.
money to buy imported books. Binti’s development section includes items as diverse
Alice Walker, Terry McMillan, Toni Morrison and as practical manuals for personal development, con-
Nawal el Saadawi are strong sellers as are books on ference papers and research reports on topics
domestic violence and books on various kinds of self- ranging from tool making to crop protection to build-
help. Men Are From Mars, Women Are From Venus, for ing construction and roof thatching. Good
example, is a steady seller. Other sections include: development programs, thanks to much hard work
November /December 1996 16
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
and consciousness-raising over the years, address years. It just seems like the next logical step — and she
women’s employment and health issues. So working has the skills and the contacts to make it work.
with the development community is one of the most
efficient ways Binti can reach out to girls and women In Nairobi “everyone” knows that Binti is the
in outlying areas. People who work in these fields are, place to get books for women. Women from out of
of course, vitally interested in women’s development town can ask anyone in the neighborhood, from cab
literature, and NGOs and development agencies buy drivers to cobblers, where to find “that bookstore for
books for staff use as well as materials for distribu- women” and get directions. Still, some people in the
tion through various programs. Binti will provide development community find the concept of a
books that haven’t previously been readily available women’s bookstore difficult. “Why ‘binti?’ — they
to these communities. ask, “Why just women?” a question that makes sense
Binti also sends booklists out by mail to local and in an environment where their job is to develop the
outlying customers and organizes “book mobiles” to entire community. To simplify things, staff sometimes
the neighboring cities of Kampala in Uganda and refer to the store as “Legacy.” “Feminist” is also a
Arusha in Tanzania. The book trips include receptions challenging word in the local vernacular. Too often it
and a program to sell books to agencies as well as is used to mean rebellious, “crazy” or “wayward”
individuals. One of Binti’s long-term goals is to set up (though, interestingly enough, not “lesbian”). But
contract outlets to distribute books throughout East whatever it’s called, by whomever, Binti Legacy has
Africa. And, like feminist bookstores anywhere, Binti the books women in East Africa want and need.
provides a wide range of sidelines, books for travelers,
and the ever-essential bulletin boards.
Binti’s founder, Aoko Midiwo-Odembo, has
strong roots in the development community. She has a
Masters in Public Administration and Human
Resource Management from Atlanta University in ©
Georgia and a post-graduate certificate in
Personnel Management from the Royal
Institute of Personnel Administration in
London. She has worked with the Combat-
ing Childhood and Communicable |
Diseases Program at the Center for Disease
Control in Atlanta, was the Contracts Man-
ager for the African Medical and Research
Foundation (AMREF), worked for the f
International Center for Insect Physiology |
and Ecology as a Planning Officer, and |
helped to establish Jimmy Carter Center
offices in Nairobi. Aoko was also a found-
ing member of the League of Kenya Women
Voters, a NGO committed to raising politi-
cal and social awareness among women |
and girls in Kenya, and she comes from a
long line of politically active and outspoken
people. Opening a feminist bookshop is an
idea that Aoko has nurtured for many |
Binti Legacy’s books on display at a trade fair
in Kampala, Uganda.
17 November /December 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
WITH ME — THE BEST
QON Is YET TO BE
Edited by
reflections on turning fifty Sandra Haldeman Martz
In the enriching tradition
of the million-copy bestseller,
When I Am an Old Woman I
“These graceful meditat i`o n fs i cSthiaolnl , W peaore t Pruyr,p l ea,n dt h sta nidpisng ha ntohooluogtyt oof- -short
e. Are dotted with WI y humor graphs shares poignant expe-
riences of growing old, while
and complemented by the delicate art of California-based expanding to include men as
Barbara Van Arnam.” —Publishers Weekly well as women.
“written from experience
and from the heart.
FULL MOON: REFLECTIONS ON TURNING FIFTY Rach piees'canbe
by Susan Carol Hauser enjoyed for itself, but
This is a time of transition for many, as one baby boomer turns fifty every together they speak well for
t rw ico h s pe ac so sn ad gs e. oF fu l l t i mM eo .o n S:s u sR a nef le C:c at ri oo ln slH aao un st e rTe’u s r rn cein l,eg b r F a tif oit ry yf h e so sn ao yrtss , h a nr dae t h Beyar r b t'ah rraa n e P Ss ph uu ln Aslt out lsh :e c S a Ok 0 s Zn eyi rn O,b ru t aeotevery-
Van Arnam s exquiısıte full-color art represent the thirteen moon cycles in the a NTS RAS T one moves into this stage of
year leading up toa woman's fiftieth birthday. “Listening to Susan Carol life- And, asmany:of these
HMauseir n wen reealsizoe tthaer e isP nuo brealsionc to Rfeara dagiinog.” —s Ptauilal lS ch rotedher,e w r itseras m poinet o uti, n thseyi'rdee, only
0-918949-93-9, cloth, $14.95, 0-918949-99-8, six books w/counter display, $89.70 the packaging has c—hPanubgleidsh.”ers Weekly
R @® FOR SHIPMENT WITHIN 24 HOURS: Order books 0-918949-87-4, cloth, $20
D and calendars from InBook at 1-800-243-0158. 0-918949-86-6, paper, $12
MAINS Order gift item Bso o kfs r aovmaila b leP afproimer -BMakearc h& e T a yaltor , 1 B-o8ok0p0e-op9le2,7-5913. 0-918949-96-3, large print, $17
? ist Ingr am, Koe3n, & Pac ific b Pipeli ne. 6K05Ei EEE rtt
November /December 1996 18 Volume 19 Number 4
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Compiled by Carol Seajay The Women’s Bookstop (Hamilton, Ontario) has
been in the local paper again for the seventh time in
Sales are all over the map — there's no one eleven years. Renee Albrecht writes, “Surprisingly, in
consistent story. this industrial town our shop is respected. We're even
My Sisters’ Words (Syracuse) just celebrated their called upon to comment when a story involving
ninth anniversary with “the best party ever. People women’s lives is about to appear.” But it’s not all good
stayed longer and spent more. In fact, they spent twice news: “Our sales have been down about 20% from last
as much as last year,” Mary Ellen Kavanaugh told FBN. year. Staff have been cut back; luckily they've found
Keys to the success? “A lot of community education, other part-time work to compensate. I'm working more
chocolate cake to die for, and free mini-massages. Peo- hours, the bills are being paid slower. It’s the way [the
ple had to hang around and wait for their turn for Canadian] economy is. Things will improve as the
massages.” The last may have been the secret. The months go by and, if not, we'll just have to restrain our
event also featured Donna Woolfolk Cross’ inaugural ordering.” Chapters, the Canadian mega-chain and es-
reading for Pope Joan (“the reading at Borders didn’t presso bar, has arrived in Hamilton. But Women’s
count”) with the heady news that Jodie Foster is read- Bookstop customers refuse to be daunted — and one
ing for Joan for the movie.... Mary Ellen is already customer just brought the Bookstop an espresso machine!
brainstorming for Anniversary # 10. “Maybe Jamie
Anderson to emcee, along with Pat Humphries (a local K VA
folk singer), Suede and The Flirtations, Minnie Bruce
Pratt (who did her first reading from Crimes Against
Nature at My Sisters’ Words) and Adrienne Rich...?” National Coming Out Day
Mary Ellen also reports that “we're holding our Full Circle celebrated National Coming Out Day
own, paying our bills. Sales are up (not a lot but with their Second Annual NCOD Fiesta, taking over the
noticeably). We feel really solid for the first time.” whole block from 4-8pm. This year’s event drew only
No one at New Words would say that things are half again as many people as last year for a crowd of 700
easy yet but “there's a corner being turned.” Once — not bad for a week night! The Gay Men’s Chorus
again, community education, reinforced by the clos- performed, the square dancers danced and political
ing of other New England bookstores, seems to be candidates vied for chances to speak (and all agreed to
making the difference in customers’ shopping pat- abide by Full Circle’s one rule: that they couldn't say,
terns — and generating increased out-of-store sales “I'm not gay or lesbian, but....”). Craftspeople exhibited
opportunities. their wares, the Green Party exhibited, gay political
Amazon, on the other hand, saw sales drop by groups exhibited along with the gay & lesbian business
20% during the summer. Hard to know why — Ama- association. Entertainers entertained and a good time
zon has been fairly well insulated from the sales drop was had by all. Not to mention that sales in the store
that usually follows when chain stores move into were really good, too. “It was really wonderful. Excel-
town, so it may be a delayed response in a tradition- lent,” Jennifer told FBN. “The only way to improve it
ally very loyal community. But Amazon still keeps next year will be to start the event earlier in the day.
moving ahead: their new Web site is up and it's great! Sometimes the community tends to see us as a
Drop by at (http://www.amazonfembks.com). ‘women’s studies’ store and it's a great way to remind
November /December 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
that part of the community that we're also a lesbian and Book for Gay, Lesbian, and Bisexual Youth — and Their
gay store and resource.” Allies. The $5 ticket price included two raffle tickets —
Full Circle has just changed their hours, too, for the one for a $25 gift certificate good at the store where
first time in ten years. Why? “Well, for a lot of reasons: the ticket was purchased and the other for $400 worth
We wanted to hire two new people and expanding store of gift certificates to local independent bookstores.
hours (and presumably income) was one way to give
nth exem t y b eo at rh a nfu dl l w t ei m we a njo t b s t; o B ba er n e hs e r e& fN iro sb tl e w w iti hll to hp ee n h oh ue rr se ; & NA y A
and the fact is that most feminist bookstores are open
10-6, but people don’t get home from work until 6 pm. And Other Good News:
So how can we be here for working women if we're not Lioness has been getting great publicity lately: A
open when they can come?” story on the changes in the book business with a color
photo of Lioness in the Sacramento daily paper, and
National Independent Bookstore Week some coverage on a TV program about hate crimes...
The highlight of Santa Cruz’ NIBW celebration In Other Words’ (Portland OR) Catherine Sameh
was the brainchild of Herland’s owner Kayla Rose — has decided to stay on as manager as the store goes from
Word by Word: A Celebration of Books, a city-wide event a two-paid-staff-and-some-volunteers to a one-paid-
sponsored by local independent bookstores featuring staff-and-a-lot-of-volunteers structure. Catherine
local authors reading from their books. Ellen Bass (The Tetrick, who has been co-managing the store with
Courage to Heal) and Kate Kaufman presented for Her- Catherine Sameh since it opened, will stay on as a
land and read from their new book Free Your Mind: The volunteer and a member of the board of directors. “Our
group of volunteers is ready and able to take on more
B&T Link Update responsibilities. If they weren't Iwouldn’t have decided
to stay on — we're ready for a really good year,”
We have upgraded our B&T Link subscrip- Catherine Sameh told FBN. Borders opened in Portland
tion to quarterly. It is really being put to the test just after In Other Words opened — and the Powells
as I do my Fall frontlist orders. So far, so good. across the street tripled their space at the same time.
Most publishers have their Fall titles on the July Women & Children First was featured in Papier-
disk, so preparing my Fall orders is easier than it Mache’s great ad series titled, “9 Traits of Highly
has been. Even with the recent price increase, Successful Booksellers.” Trait # 7 is “Stocks sidelines to
B&T Link is less expensive, more thorough, and provide one-stop shopping for holiday gift buying,”
infinitely easier to use than the hard copy of and the ad features a great photo of Linda Bubon and
Books in Print. —Mary Ellen Kavanaugh Women & Children First. It’s great to see feminist
My Sisters’ Words booksellers presented in such a lovely and professional
way. My question is, why are such treats so rare?
Another suggestion for easy, cheap access to
ISBN’s and bibliographic data: If you're on the Congratulations!
Internet, dial up Amazon.com and use their Congratulations to Natalie Lando, recipient of
search service. They keep their data base pretty The Pat Bond Memorial Old Dyke Award. Natalie
current (since that’s what they sell from and they was honored as “a lifelong dyke, a steadfast mover
get the forthcoming titles in there pretty quickly). and shaker for lesbian culture for years in the [SF] Bay
It's free, it seems to be thorough, and, unlike the Area, a volunteer extraordinaire at Mama Bears Book-
Library of Congress (see FBN Vol. 19 #2, page 33), store & Coffee House. A quiet force, Natalie is
they don’t shut down at night. And I gotta say unmatched in her many contributions to Bay Area
that using their business site as a resource helps Culture.” Natalie was an early Daughters of Bilitis
to vent my resentment that they so cavalierly member, and one of the visionaries who helped get A
appropriated the name of the oldest women’s Woman's Place, possibly the first women’s bookstore
bookstore in the country. CS in the country, off the ground. o
November /December 1996 20
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
By Carol Seajay A Cautionary Tale?
It’s difficult to mourn people, confusing to mourn
Woman-Hating for Slow Readers institutions, and even harder to mourn the loss of a
Why do people still think misogyny is funny? vision. Canada’s 31-year-old Coach House press closed
Harper Trophy is pushing a new series for middle this summer. A fiercely successful press (sales in 1995
grades called the “He-Man Women Haters Club.” were C$450,000), it succumbed to government cutbacks
The description of the first book, Johnny Chesthair, rather than low sales, returns, inadequate distribution
reads, “Steven hates Monica. He’s hated her ever or other, more familiar small press nightmares. Since
since third grade when he hit her and she — breaking 1994, grants to Coach House from the Department of
all the rules — hit him back...” He-Man Women Canadian Heritage have dwindled by 37%. Other fed-
Haters Club #2, titled Babes in the Woods, is about the eral funds declined by 22%. Coach House's publisher
same group of boys on a camping Margaret McClintock told PW
trip, the highlights of which that, while the cuts were severe,
include chewing a live slug. The they came with some warning and
third in the series is due to be the press had time to trim its staff
released in June. The series title, to two people and to push its
we've twice been told, is based on entire 15 titles into the Fall season
the clubhouse from the “Little to cut costs and counteract the
Rascals” TV series from the 50s. A effects of the lost revenue. What
Harper spokesperson explained McClintock couldn't plan for was
that the name is supposed to be the sudden 74% reduction in its
funny. The series is aimed at reluc- provincial funding and the
tant readers and apparently increasingly right-wing govern-
anything and everyone is fair ment’s decision to close the
game if it induces (boy) readers to pick up a book. But Ontario Development Corporation — the governmen-
I'd remind Harper that the Little Rascals series was tal agency that has, in years past, provided line of credit
so blatantly and offensively racist that it hasn't been and loan guarantees for Ontario publishers — from
shown on TV in decades. Woman-hating is no funnier Coach House to Women’s Press. The dissolution of the
than lynching. Women die from being battered, and agency not only leaves publishers scrambling for new
sexual harassment in schools is at epidemic propor- loan sources, it calls in all previous loans.
tions. Racist and sexist attitudes are not behaviors to
model for any children. There’s nothing funny here
— just a willingness to sacrifice girls to bribe boys to
read. It’s an old line. It’s been done before. It’s
disgusting. To add insult to injury, Ontario Premier Mike
Mary Ellen Kavanaugh at My Sisters’ Words Harris criticized Coach House for blaming govern-
brought this to our attention. She’s organizing a larger ment cutbacks for its demise and suggested that
response to Harper and this title. Please call her with Coach House was the victim of poor management —
ideas, suggestions, or to pitch in. to which Jack Stoddart, president of the Association
Volume 19 Number 4 21 November /December 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
of Canadian Publishers replied, “Premier Mike
Harris is completely out of touch with the realities Speaking of cross-over markets (or the lack
facing book publishers.” Small comfort to a press that thereof), Richard Labonte was quoted in ABA's G&L
has tripled its sales and audience in the last five years Bookselling newsletter as saying, “I don’t believe that
and reduced its reliance on grants from 60% in 1990 [other than library sales] more than a handful of gay
to 40% in 1996. and lesbian titles have been sold beyond the gay and
Yet Coach House is, well, was, a venerable insti- lesbian communities.” That’s bad news for those
tution, the standard for Canadian literature. It emotionally or financially invested in the mythical
published writers such as Margaret Atwood, bp cross-over (gay book to straight readers) sale. But
Nichol and Michael Ondaatje. FBN has reviewed Labonte sees it this way: “For the most part, gay and
twenty-some Coach House titles in the last five years. lesbian customers have been supporting gay and
I cannot help but wonder who will publish these lesbian books published by both mainstream and gay
voices now? I cannot think of its closing without hear- and lesbian presses. To me, that's a very soothing fact,
ing Margaret Atwood’s voice, echoing in my mind that we don’t have to depend on the whims of curious
from the 1993 Women Reviewing Women Conference, liberal readers to support our publishing.” Amen.
explaining, “Canada has a literature because a genera-
tion of Canadian writers stayed home from London Meanwhile, African American booksellers have
and Paris and started presses and review media and mixed feelings about seeing Blackboard’s monthly list
lobbied the government for money to support Cana- of African American bestsellers in every B&N across the
dian publishers and Canadian literature and country. Sure, it’s great to see Black authors and their
Canadian culture.” Without governmental support of books get recognition, but there's a difference between
some kind, most distinctly Canadian publishing can- recognizing the books that sell and targeting the audi-
not take place — the population simply isn't large ence that African American bookstores have proved.
enough to buy enough copies of books to make them For any independent booksellers to provide informa-
affordable. Canada has a choice: to either subsidize tion to chain stores (the list is based on information
Canadian publishing or to let it die away and leave gathered from African American bookstores) that the
Canadians dependent on the exports from other chain can (and undoubtably will) use in its unending
nations for its literature — and national identity. struggle to take over the book industry, seems to FBN
to be sheer folly. Something like feeding the dog that
Earlier this year, Canada rebuffed an attempt by bites you. Don't look to B&N to discover the up-and-
American bookstore chain Borders to move into coming new Black writers, to stock the range of titles
Canadian bookselling. Barnes & Noble has tried that African American stores do, or to launch the
another tack: buying 20% of Chapters, the Canadian unknowns.... Gay and lesbian readers are welcome to
bookstore chain formed last year when the Smith- re-read the above paragraph substituting “g/1” for
Books and Coles chains merged. Chapters already “African American.” One struggle, many fronts, etc.
controls 40-50% of the total Canadian book market.
=
It has opened five superstores and plans to open five
more later this year. B&N’s CFO Irene Miller and
COO Stephen Riggio will serve on Chapters’ board
of directors. B&N, with an eye to the Canadian gov- A Banned Books Week article in PW (September
ernment, has promised to purchase more books by 23) pointed out that while attempts to censor books fell
Canadian authors to sell in the U.S. I for one, am not by 11%, broad challenges to the freedom to read, includ-
holding my breath. Ordering the books is one thing. ing attacks on entire curricula, rose by 46%. A third of
Supporting them is something else, and returning the attacks directly or indirectly involve the religious
books is something that B&N does very well. And right. The book challenged most often was I Know Why
big purchases followed by big returns can destroy the Caged Bird Sings by Maya Angelou, which reflects
publishers. But we already know I'm cynical about the disproportionate number of attacks on books by —
such things. you guessed it — African American women.
November /December 1996 22
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
This may be a good time to point out that ABA has Women Business Owners launched a $1 billion loan
been distributing an excellent pamphlet summarizing program for women business owners. We've received
book publishers’ obligations to bookstores under the a number of offers for 50% off the $150 opening fee,
Federal Antitrust Discrimination Act (the Robinson- but with an annual fee of $150 and an interest rate of
Patman Act). If you have any remaining doubts that it’s prime + 6.75%, most women will be way better off
illegal for publishers to offer chains and other large taking advantage of the numerous 5.9% to 6.9% credit
retailers discounts and benefits (promotional allow- card offers that are floating around. Sure, those rates
ances, special deals, favorable returns or other deals) are only good for the first six months, but these folks
that aren't (proportionately) available to independent sell their mailing lists faster than they send out credit
bookstores, call Len Vlahos, 800-637-0037 ext. 219, or cards, and the offers keep coming in. It’s not fun, but
e-mail (vlahos@bookweb.org) for a copy. it’s certainly cheaper to rotate one’s outstanding bal-
ance from credit card to credit card than to pay for
ABA? BEA? Go Away! special programs at these rates. Too bad. It seems like
So with all the big corporate publishers deciding to such a nice idea.
skip ABA, one has to wonder how important it is for
f them ati n ii ss t i np cu rb el ai ss ih ne gr s g ea an rd e d b o ao wk as ye ll e fr rs o m t o i na dtt ee pn ed n d ea n ts sh . o w God E 2N" AA
nose (as Celeste West used to say), if the corporate
publishers aren't getting their money’s worth out of the Reading Groups
increasingly expensive show, it’s hard to imagine how Reading groups are all the rage, with publishers
a small press will. One suggestion I've heard is for large and small investing in supporting them (and
publishers to exhibit on alternate years (the show rules encouraging groups to read their books). Doubleday
currently read that publishers can skip a year without has just released a video for book groups that features
losing seniority). Another idea is for publishers to agree Margaret Atwood talking about Al/ias Grace. Word is
to move around to the various regional shows — say, that there’s a video of an interview with Dorothy
attend NEBA one year, NCIBA the next, then UMBA in Allison that’s available for book groups, too. (Does
the Midwest — and for the annual meetings to be held anyone know what/where, and how to get it?) Conari
in conjunction with the agreed-upon show. It would has published a Wild Woman Reading Group Guide that
take some coordination, but it could mean meeting new includes photos and descriptions of a number of their
booksellers every year, rather than seeing the same titles along with suggested discussion topics. Circles of
(albeit wonderful) folks year after year. Sisterhood: A Book Discussion Group Guide for Women of
Color (Writers & Readers) celebrates a reading-group
= Én tradition with a rich and wonderful history. The Lav-
ender Salon Reader, the “Newsletter & Literary Review
for Gay & Lesbian Reading Clubs” reports on the
Unexpected Bedfellows? activities and books read by various reading groups
Family Circle and PC World will jointly launch a around the country. Published by Michael Nitz, copy-
new magazine for women, Family Circle Computers edited by Brenda Timm. $2/issue. 1474 Home
Made Easy With the Editors of PC World. (That’s Avenue, Menasha WI 54952; (lavsalon@athenet.net;
FCCMEWEPCW, for short.) The price ($3.99) is con- http://www.athenet.net/~lavsalon/). But perhaps
siderably shorter than the title, so it may have a best of all is BookWomen, the new magazine from the
chance, but get a clue! If this is aimed at the American (Minnesota) Women’s Press, which serves as a
working woman, it’s scheduled to debut at exactly the woman-to-woman conversation about who’s reading
wrong time: the week of Thanksgiving and in the what and why. No pretensions, just good reading and
midst of the pre-Christmas bustle. : a solid belief that books change women’s lives. Book-
Women, Minnesota Women’s Press, Inc., 771 Raymond
More folly? FBN was as thrilled as anyone else A (v wenue o, mSt. ePa nul pMN r e551 s1 s4; @ fa ax o61 l2- .6 c46 o-2 m186, ) e .- m ai Ol
when Wells Fargo and the National Association of
23 November /December 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
FemGinismN sd
an
Body
Feminism and Split Britches
Contemporary Art Lesbian Practice/Feminist Performance
The Revolutionary Power of Edited by Sue-Ellen Case
Women’s Laughter A long-awaited celebration of the
Jo Anna Isaak troupe that has won two Obies and
Provides a provocative and valuable other distinguished awards for their
account of the diversity and revolu- performance skills, ensemble work,
tionary potential of women’s 256 pp 12 illus $16.95/pb and textual innovation.
art practice. 288pp 15illus $16.95/pb
264 pp 100 illus $17.95/pb The Rejected Body
Feminist Philosophical Blood Stories
FR emo inc isk m,- Sa e- lfB -Hey lp anB d a Pb osty partum R Se ufl se act nio n s W on e n D dis eab llility M Boe dn yar c ih ne Ca on nd t e mth pe o rP ao rl yit ic Us . S .o f S o t ch iee t y Female
Depression Argues that feminist theorizing has Janet Lee and
Verta Taylor been skewed, and emphasizes that Jennifer Sasser-Coen
Takes issue with the negative view of the knowledge of people with disabili- Focuses on menarche (first menstru-
self-help dominating feminist scholar- ties must be integrated into feminist al period) as a central aspect of body
ship by exploring the relationship ethics. politics in contemporary U.S. society,
between gender, the ideas and 316 pp $16.95/pb emphasizing that it is through the
strategies of women’s self-help body that women are integrated into
groups and feminism. The Second Wave the social and sexual order.
192 pp $18.95/pb A Reader in Feminist Theory 208 pp $16.95/pb
Edited by Linda Nicholson
Feminist Political Ecology A collection of the major essays from The Witch in History
Edited by Dianne Rocheleau, the past forty years which have made Early Modern and Twentieth-Century
aB na drb a Er sa t h T erh o m Wa as n- gSl aa ry iter, ak ne dy gc eo nn et rr aib teu dt i o en xs t e nto s i vf ee m di in scis ut s s it oh ne .ory R De ip are nse en t a Pti uon rs kiss
pE ox lp itlo icr se s i ne c o cl oo mgi mes u, n e itc io en s o m asi e s d i va en rd se as 416 pp $22.95/pb tIn iov ne ss t i ag na dt e s m et ah ne i n d gi sv e ar ts te r ii bn ut te er dp r te ot a - the
the rubbertappers in Brazil to activist figure of the witch, including canoni-
groups in New York City. cal literature, visual arts, fairy tales,
352 pp $19.95/pb folklore and real-life witch stories.
352 pp $17.95/pb
Prices subject to change.
November /December 1996 24 Volume 19 Number 4
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
By Liz Wermcrantz woman to convey outright humor. Women were
Women & Children First neither to be involved with the “masculine” act of
being funny nor were they to enjoy humor. Instead
“I couldn't hush the voices I kept hearing...the humor was hidden in the most unlikely of places. It
writers and thinkers, the scholars and comics, the was lurking in the passages of Jane Austen and sneak-
speakers and street fighters, the movers and shakers.” ing through the pages of Sylvia Plath. Nowadays,
—Mary Kay Blakely, 1980 women are more blatantly hilarious, having broken
free from such social constraints. We see hilarious
“,..it is true that women’s humor has only lately women like Diane DiMassa, Regina Barreca, Kate
been brought to the front of the line, shuffled up from Clinton and Nicole Hollander become more and more
the crowded background, to receive its much popular, loud and irreverent. Often they speak better
deserved attention, laughter, and applause.” than any other genre for the rest of us. Who else can
—Regina Barreca, 1996 completely sum up the frustrations of a crush in one
postcard-size cartoon? I know it would take me a few
I often trip over nothing when I walk down the college-ruled journals to do so while being un-funny.
street. It’s the worst when I’m alone and there's no But to understand the current state of feminist
trusted friend nearby to laugh with me. I assume most humor, we must first look at the past. In 1980, Indiana
of us feel this way when we do something embarrass- University Press published one of the first collections
ing or when we're suffering through something
uncomfortable or difficult. I remember, too, getting
yelled at during my grandmother's funeral for laugh-
ing — as if my laughter was any less healing than
crying. It wasn’t. There's something about embarrass-
ment, sadness, anger, frustration, struggle that
screams for laughter. And there's something comfort-
ing and bonding in a good belly-laugh or giggle of
recognition. It heals. It eases. It's fun.
Feminism is no exception. As with any other move-
ment or difficult task, humor has played a constant and
key role. Through humor we have withstood our cir-
cumstances and our society. We have raged against the
system. We have become empowered through shared
laughter, both collectively and singularly.
Women’s humor has always been around. It has
changed, become louder and more aggressive as
we've toddled along, but it has always been there. It
used to be that it was less socially acceptable for a
25 November /December 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
devoted strictly to feminist humor. Edited and curated Make Good Kids (June, 1996). Sadly, some of her
by Gloria Kaufman and Mary Kay Blakely, Pulling Our books are out of print, but many are still available.
Strings serves as a hilarious slice of life for that time. Hothead Paisan. You should all know Hothead
Filled with humorous pieces about everything from by now. Created in 1991 by Diane DiMassa, this self-
tampons to breasts, from the workplace to motherhood, described “homicidal lesbian terrorist” represents a
it stands as a testament to the issues women were major shift in women’s humor. No longer are women
immersed in during the 70s and early 80s. That’s not to joking about how life would be if men could menstru-
say that women today don’t laugh and fret, wonder and ate. Instead, Hothead is single-handedly eliminating
fight for many, if not all, of the same issues, but the focus all the men who, among other things, would dare to
in humor has shifted. We're making fun of ourselves cross the path of a menstruating woman — or a non-
more these days. Our humor is still both subtly and menstruating woman for that matter. Hothead,
overtly political, but there's a matureness to it that only representing all things pissed off and rebellious, serves
comes with time and age. We're more flip, more smug. as a cathartic release for us. Diane DiMassa spreads our
We revel in our inside jokes. We exclude men when we anger openly throughout the panels of her comic. And
feel like it. We struggle not so much to demolish ideas in turn, Hothead relieves some of the anger that haunts
such as “women’s proper place in society” as to laugh us. As Diane says, “There's something about getting
in the faces of those who try to uphold them or revive the anger outside of yourself — getting it out where
them. For these and many other reasons, it’s important you can look at it — that gives you a much better
to have a well-stocked humor section. Here are some of perspective.” Hothead is available in a quarterly comic
the current gems... form as well as in two anthologies published by Cleis
A few weeks ago, Women & Children First hosted Press, Hothead Paisan: Homicidal Lesbian Terrorist
a reading for Regina Barreca, the editor of a new book and The Revenge of Hothead Paisan.
titled The Penguin Book of Women’s Humor and the We've watched the women in Alison Bechdel’s
author of other numerous books of humor such as Dykes to Watch Out For grow from the nubile young
They Used to Call Me Snow White But I Drifted, also dykes in 1983 to pioneering 90s babes facing their thir-
from Penguin. Several days before, WBEZ, the local ties. Through them we've dealt with the struggles of
NPR-carrying radio station had her on one of their vegetarianism, mothering, big corporations (you know,
shows. We have since been inundated with requests Buns & Noodles), sex toys and hundreds of other issues
for the book. Not to mention that her reading was important not just to lesbians but to all women. I
packed to the rafters and she provided the women and believed for years I was not interested in comic strips.
men in the audience an hour they will not soon forget. One day, after I realized I was probably the last lesbian
The book is a collection of writings and comics that on the planet who hadn't developed full-blown per-
covers three centuries of witty women who speak sonal relationships with Mo, Harriet, Clarice, Lois and
powerfully about our lives and the world we live in. the rest, I decided to test my previously unsubstanti-
Nicole Hollander, a local cartoonist here in ated aversion. I picked up the first book of Dykes to
Chicago, has always been very supportive of Women Watch Out For, published by Firebrand, and reap-
& Children First and feminist bookstores in general. peared two days and six volumes later wanting more.
She even did the cartoon for the feminist bookstores’ At one point my girlfriend even caught me reading the
joint ad campaign one year. Most likely you're already book over her shoulder while she was talking to me.
familiar with her work since her cartoon “Sylvia” runs Jennifer Berman’s smartly political cartoons have
on the comics page of 60 newspapers across the coun- found a welcome and hungry place on our shelves.
try. If you don’t have access to her cartoons via your She’s the one who created the postcard-size repre-
newspaper (or even if you do) yow'll want a good sentation of a crush I talked of earlier. Her newest book,
stock of her books for your customers. Nicole’s first Why Dogs Are Better Than Republicans, couldn't
book, I’m in Training to Be Tall and Blonde, was have come at a better time. People are snapping this one
published by St. Martin’s Press in 1979. Twentysome up for the title alone. After cracking the cover open,
books — and close to 20 years later — Adams Media they've been treated to a sharp, fun commentary on
Corporation has released 101 Reasons Why Cats what we're up against come November 5.
November /December 1996 26
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Cynthia Heimel is the straight woman’s
loudmouth, although I've been known to enjoy CAUSE ITS A
her, too. The titles of her books alone are a sure
indication that she’s a hilarious woman: If You
Can't Live Without Me Why Aren’t You Dead
Yet?, Get Your Tongue Out of My Mouth, I'm
Kissing You Good-bye, and her latest, When
Your Phone Doesn't Ring, It'11 Be Me (Atlantic
Monthly Press). With chapter titles such as
“Rush Limbaugh: Blow Me,” “Networking
With Wolves,” “Ode to Sweatpants” and many
more just as zany, there's no telling what she'll
talk about in her columns. She covers the gamut
from dating men to admiring lesbians, from the
ageism of Hollywood to girls nights out...
virtually everything.
Roz Warren is the queen of women’s
humor, the founder and publisher of Laugh
Lines Press, editor of eleven women’s humor
anthologies, her most recent being Dyke Strip-
pers: Lesbian Cartoonists A to Z (Cleis Press).
Carol Seajay told me Roz even said this once: feminists Hothead Paisan, Homicidal Lesbian Terrorist (Cleis Press)
don’t take humor seriously. Ironic, yet too often true.
Roz makes a case for humor everyday. She has taken (Doubleday, $10.95). This just-published parody book
up the slack, pushed us to listen, pushed us to laugh. is also a sure-seller. We, at Women & Children First,
Dyke Strippers is a wonderful collection of lesbian frantically passed around the galley and traded notes.
and bisexual comics. Everyone'’s in it: Alison Bechdel, Filled with jokes about everything from formulas for
Diane DiMassa, Jennifer Camper, Nicole Ferentz, Fish “gay girl movies” to trading cards of the right-wing,
and more. It’s not just a beginner's guide to lesbian this book is sure to crack you up. While a few times, I
comics, it's a collector’s edition. thought Mary Dugger went a bit far in poking fun at
So You Want to Be A Lesbian?, by Liz Tracey and people, for the most part, this book is a winner. Espe-
Sydney Pokorny, is the ultimate in self-irreverent cially with that picture of Mona Lisa with a dykey
humor babble. I tore through this book. Written by haircut on the cover.
twentysomething dykes for women of all ages, this All of these women and their work serve as a sign
book is leaping off the shelf. It’s more a parody of our of the times for the 90s, just as Pulling Our Strings did
lives than a guide for lesbian-wannabes, though ques- for the 80s. Yes, we're still angry. Yes, we’re still strug-
tioning women will find some humor and information gling with the same issues as we were in 1980, but now
in the pages. Anything with a provocative title or any we're even less tolerant, even more sick of it. Back in
funny book about being a lesbian or being a woman is 1980, it seemed to me, it was easier to present humor
an easy sell and this book is no exception. People want more inclusively. Things were funny much of the time
to see themselves looking back at them from the because the men were making us feel this way. These
printed page, especially if it’s funny. They want to days, we're more likely to poke fun at ourselves and
laugh and nudge their friends next to them and say, forget the men. We're still angry and annoyed at them
“Hey, listen to this...” This book is perfect for that. It for treating us the way they do, yet it’s less about them
has photos of different “types” of lesbians, quizzes to specifically and more about how we can take care of
take, lesbian must-haves and tons more. things on our own and take care of ourselves without
The History of Lesbian Hair and Other Tales of thre eapfprorvale osr hevein n thge v oi cec ohf tahen mgen. e W.h at oa
Bent Life in a Straight World by Mary Dugger
27 November /December 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
U
I Am Beautiful Takes One to Know One
A Celebration of Women in Photographs and Words Kate Allen
edited by Dana Carpenter and Woody Winfree On women's land in New Mexico, Denver Cop
Photoshop of real women and their own descriptions Alison Daine discovers a body in the sweat lodge.
of what makes them beautiful. Emotions heat up quickly and Alison suspects murder.
ROSE COMMUNICATIONS NEW VICTORIA PRESS
ISBN 1-887166-12-2 • $18.95 paper ISBN 0-934678-74-X • $10.95 paper
ISBN 1-887166-11-4 • $26.95 cloth
Gow Old Along With Me—
The Rooms We Make Our Own The Best Is Yet To Be
by Toni Mirosevich edited by Sandra Haldeman Martz
Toni Mirosevich builds the complex structure of her This eloquent collection transforms our myths of aging
lesbian experience. Poetry shares space with fiction. into a real sense of wonder and expectation.
FIREBRAND BOOKS PAPIER-MACHE PRESS
II SS BB N N 1 -5 61 3- 415 -6 083 14 -81 - • 0 $8 20 0.- 9X 5 c lo• t h $9.95 paper ISBN 0 I I -S S 9B B 1N N 8 9 40 0 9- - -9 9 91 1 68 8 -9 9 34 4 9 9- •- 8 8 6 $7- 1-6 74 . 0 • • 0 $ $ l1 2 a2 r0. g.0 0 e0 0 pp c ra lop inte h tr edition
Yes I Said Yes I Will
Judith McDaniel Into the Moon—Heart, Mind, Body, Soul
The Native Women’s Writing Circle
U lifn eit a cr ai ran in g m i fn oi rs t e or t h R era sc ,h e wl h S im le y it gh ne o rh inas g s hp ee rn t o whe nr dw eeh po el se t edited by Lenore Keeshing Tobias
needs—until she must confront her own fears to sur- Poetry, fiction, myth and personal essays from ten
render to an all-consuming love. native women.
NAIAD PRESS SISTER VISION PRESS
ISBN 1-56280-138-4 • $10.95 paper ISBN 1-896705-04-9 • $11.95 paper
>.
W LPC Group 26-4330 or 1-800-243-0138
BAAL o LOGIN TRADE o WOMENSOURCE
November /December 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
By Roz Warren
I began publishing humor by women in 199], with
Women’s Glib, a feminist humor collection that would
sell close to 20,000 copies before it finally went into the
dumpster (i.e. was remaindered) last year.
Women’s Glib was remaindered because my pub-
lisher decided that they'd had it with women’s humor
publishing.
I'm grateful to Crossing for publishing humor by
women for as long as they did. From 1991 to 1995 they
published nine of my books, including four cartoon
collections, three anthologies, an in-depth look at
women comedians and a quote book. All sold stead-
ily; none flopped. Crossing finally bailed out because
(particularly if you pay your contributors, which I
always did) feminist humor anthologies cost a lot of
money upfront, and are a \major headache to design
and produce, and thus cannot make money back
quickly or easily. « You look úre thue kid oF qiri
The audience for feminist humor is fiercely loyal Who Coud 2Ayoy a. qood cvp of
but it just isn’t big enough. Yet. (My pal Deb
Werksman, who published the feminist humor maga- Coree anrd be akle to d'scoSs
zine hysteria at a loss for several years before finally yne likeraiy merits OF (heto! y
shutting it down, would agree with me here.) OÇ-0'.. Cale t yon Me? "
I know one thing for certain: if Id taken the
money I've spent on women’s humor publishing From Caffeinated Cartoons by Stephanie Piro
over the past five years and, instead, invested it in (Laugh Lines Press)
the stock market, and then spent those same five
yearsjust lying on the sofa, reading books and eating women’s humor books I've brought into this world,
chocolates, I'd have a hell of a lot more money in the as editor or publisher.
bank than I do now. My books haven't made me rich. (The money
But The Butches of Madison County wouldn't exist. Crossing paid contributors was deducted from my
Nor would Dyke Strippers, or any of the twenty other royalties.) They haven't even made me famous. But
29 November /December 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
they've made me happy, and they've given the kind
Five Things of woman I love (smart, irreverent feminists) a few
You Can Do to good laughs. They've led to my becoming friends
with some very cool people. (Alison Bechdel and
Support Women’s Humor... Nicole Hollander return my phone calls!)
And they've provided one of the only markets for
1: If there isn’t a feminist strip like Nicole the work of a number of very funny women.
Hollander’s “Sylvia,” Jan Eliot's “Stone What I am trying to say here is that the payback
Soup,” Stephanie Piro's “Fair Game” for publishing feminist humor is other than financial.
or Barbara Brandon's “Where I'm Coming
From” on the comics page of your local That’s okay, because I published Women’s Glib not
newspaper, write to the editor asking that so I could get rich but because I was a diehard humor
such a strip be included. fan who was frustrated (and angered) by the fact that
none of the existing humor anthologies contained
2. If there is a feminist strip on the comics humor by women.
page of your local newspaper, write to the I'd been laughing at funny feminist material,
editor thanking her for including it. (And published mostly in “alternative” and “feminist” ven-
while you're at it, ask her to include ues, for years. The material was there. Yet,
another one!) mysteriously, the straight white guys who edited
these humor anthologies never included it!
3 . The same thing goes for your local I wanted there to be at least one book of nothing
“alternative” weekly. If they don’t run but humor by women, and feminist humor at that.
Nicole Hollander’s “Sylvia” or Not the mild stuff that reinforces the status quo, but
Lynda Barry's strip, or another good the fierce stuff that rocks the boat.
feminist strip, write and ask them to. And Basically, what I wanted to do was undermine the
if the local lesbian paper doesn't run patriarchy. By laughing, not with it, but at it. And
“Dykes to Watch Out For” or “Stonewall encouraging others to join in.
Riots” or “Subgrrrlz” ask them to include You cannot reasonably expect the patriarchy to
comics on their pages! shower you with financial rewards for doing that.
4. Stock feminist humor books! Read them
y E nn oo tu c or us oe r nl af lg y! e F aya sc o e u g r ift h tc se u ,m s t bo umo tu e t r fs oo rn t o t y hbo eu u mr y s e s t lh vh ee e sl mv .es! h Liu nm eso r A P, l r t eIh s o snu og bwh e c ahC uar svo ee s s I i mn wg y a n n o to w e d nl o n tp og r e er ps s u . bp lu I i b s hl si ts ah Wre ts ee ed nw i o eL -m a Tue ogn oh n's s!
(Women are often reluctant to buy humor a zine consisting of nothing but cartoons by women
for themselves...it’s seen as self indulgent.) m Raa nk din omg f Hu on u s o e f w p oe un ldis ne 's t. b(S eo m ine th eo rw es tI e d k .) n e Tw h e nt h a I t real-
5 . If a feminist comic is performing at a ized that the essays of lesbian humorist Ellen Orleans
local club, go out and catch her act. needed to be made into a book, so Laugh Lines
If a feminist comic turns up on a talk show, published Can't Keep a Straight Face: A Lesbian Looks
write to the producers telling them you and Laughs at Life. Laugh Lines went on to publish
enjoyed watching her and asking them to three other books by Ellen, one of which, The Butches
bring her back. of Madison County, won a 1996 Lambda Book Award,
the only book so honored published by a woman-
Okay, one more: owned press.
Laugh Lines currently has twelve titles, with four
6. Stoc k h u mm oy r (i b.e o. o k L sa ! u g Soh IL i n cae ns P mr ae kss e) ew no om uge hn’s n he uw m o b r o o ak lws a yex s p e fc at re d o un te sx elt l s y hea ur m. oA r l t bh yo u g sh tr a l ie gs hb ti a n femi-
money to be able to publish more of them. nists, I will always publish both.
November /December 1996 30
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
wome nN 'so n be o oo kf s t om ry es . b Io ’o mk s g rco atu eld fu lh a tv oe ts hu er v biv oe od k s ew lli et rh sout W LKO eU L mD e tY ouu
who read this magazine for keeping my books alive Niy READ Yov
by stocking them, handselling them and reordering
them. (Thanks!!!) And to the feminist and lesbian PE the Sports
periodicals who always gladly devoted review space SECTION OR
to feminist humor. (In contrast, when Women’s Glib WOULD YOU
first came out, the editors of the New York Times Book , =, SVSt pike
Review notified me that they wouldn't be reviewing it A t0 si}
because they considered it a “cartoon book.”) ) ON F Fop,
Has any progress been made in the five years A wie?
I've been at this? Well, it’s unusual these days to see
a humor anthology that doesn’t include women
(although not as many women as they could or
should). Penguin just published a fine women’s
h Hu um mo or r a (an lt th ho ol uo gg hy , t hT eh re e P ie snn ’g tu i en n oB uo go hk lo esf b iaW no m me an t’ es rial S A Os F FN E tV hE e R £ VC -o m Ap NLA D in R Bw Ae Dn tY oo u - t HTU emRN .
in it). The Funny Times, a popular humor newspaper,
is packed with humor by women, including lesbian Cartoon by Nicole Hollander, from 101 Resons Why Cats
material. Feminist cartoonists Jan Eliot, Nina Paley Make Great Kids (Adams Media Corporation).
and Stephanie Piro, all of whose work I published,
are now being distributed to daily papers by major Alison, she turned them down.) Maybe two lesbian
syndicates. I know that my books helped make this strips! Not to mention Tim Barela’s “Leonard &
possible. Larry,” a wonderful strip about two gay men.
One day soon there will be just as many strips by I look forward to the day when funny pages will
women as by men on that last bastion of conservative no longer be all about straight white boys. It'll hap-
patriarchal thought, the daily comics page. With a pen. As sure as feminist comics Roseanne, Brett Butler
range of diverse viewpoints. Sure, Cathy will still be and Ellen Degeneres all currently have hit sitcoms.
there, but so will a feminist strip, and a lesbian strip. And when it does, I'll know that I helped it along.
(Last year, Universal, the largest syndicate, asked At which point l'll be able to stretch out on the sofa,
Alison Bechdel to create a lesbian strip for them. Being open a good book and reach for the chocolates. o
N
YOUR HEAD...” | Young Feminists At Play... ]
9-30 HILABY 9.PA t t y O1 Haya Price, Duatributed by Kng Features Syndcas. ne
Reprinted with special permission of King Features Syndicate.
Volume 19 Number 4 31 November /December 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
“ 11: d ` `”
“Painstakingly Brilliant. ..fascinating.`
little observed and —KIRKUS REVIEWS
SISTER gracefully rendered.” THE MAGIC
—KIRKUS REVIEWS DAUGHTER
LITTLE SISTER A Memoir of Living with
Searching for the Multiple Personality Disorder A Memor ar LIVING WITH
Shadow World of Jane Phillips
Chinese Women
A MEMOIR In this extraordinary AINE
Julie Checkoway memoir, a woman
A Viking hardcover recounts both her struggle
"One woman's fascinating and poignant with dissociative identity disorder and the
journey to find her own center in a foreign remarkable process of decoding the secrets
land” (Booklist) penetrates the secret of her mind in order to regain wholeness.
sisterhood of China's women.
“As in the best of memoirs, the place is a “Puna charts the personal and
character in the play, and Cantwell's courage professional struggles of Modernism's
as a wife and working least-understood
mother also has a life woman writer.”
and inspiration of its — SHARI BENSTOCK,
Own.”—LOS ANGELES TIMES AUTHOR OF WOMEN OF
THE LEFT BANK: PARIS,
MANHATTAN, 1900-1940
WHEN I WAS
YOUNG DJUNA
The Life and Work
Mary Cantwell
of Djuna Barnes
The author of the Phillip Herring
acclaimed memoir Best known for her
A Penguin paperbac American Girl continues tragic, satirical novel
her journey in this lyrical account of Nightwood, Djuna Barnes (1892-1982) was
her life in Greenwich Village during a compelling figure in Greenwich Village
the 1950s. and Left Bank literary and lesbian circles.
American Girl is available from Penguin. She is vividly rendered in this “full-fledged
critical biography and fascinating read.”
— The Nation
8S j Z
M,
November /December 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
By Ellen Orleans yToAvW wE OF I F L A L ! WALELEK
Reprinted from Still Can't Keep a Straight Face, by Ellen
Orleans, Laugh Lines Press, December 1996.
Well, with summer just around the corner, it’s
time to break out that bottle of sparkling soda, climb
into a hammock and settle into a solid stack of lesbian
fiction. So, with the wealth of lesbian genius out there,
what's on the bestseller list? Detective novels. And
murder mysteries. And crime thrillers.
Now look, I enjoy escapism and adventure as
much as the next gal, but I'd like to see a little realism
now and then. Not all of us are travel agents turned
crime solvers, or out-of-work English majors who just
s so or mt e o rf e af lie sl tl i c ,in t to r u et -h te o - lp ir fi ev a at de- ve ey ne t u rb eu s i in s e s is n. I o r db ee rli .e v Te h et rh ea -t Cartoon by Ba r Db iaa rr yy 1O 9'B 96r i e (n C, a t hfr o Cm at e T ).he Women’s
fore, I present a small sampling of Ellen’s All-Lesbian
Get Real Adventure Series. as you watch Sylvia and girlfriend Tanya give up
Margie Biblin: Vet Tech! Follow the harrowing and social event after social event just to avoid seeing
heartwarming tales of veterinarian technician Margie Tanya's clients. When Tanya calls ahead to compare
Biblin as she narrowly escapes the jaws of injured guest list to client list before attending the hottest
canines atop examining room tables, expertly dodges housewarming in all of Seattle, will Sylvia strike out
vicious claws while administering feline-leukemia on her own and go alone? Or will she stay home and
shots, or makes the soul-searching, life-changing rationalize that she needed to review those briefs
decision to adopt an abandoned three-legged rabbit. anyway? What fine line separates professional pro-
Whether it’s soothing frantic pet owners or selflessly tocol and a meaningful social life? And just how far
giving up a quiet evening at home to dole out free will they go to stay together?
medical advice to friends too broke to make a real Terry Yakamoto: Adventures of a Reluctant Subur-
appointment, Margie Biblin: Vet Tech is sure to inspire ban Dyke. After the untimely death of her parents, city
animal lovers and adventure seekers everywhere. dyke Terry Yakamoto unexpectedly finds herself
Psychologist's Girlfriend: The True Story of Sylvia responsible for, and living in, her New Jersey split
Sanchez. Being the girlfriend of a clinical psycholo- level childhood home.
gist is an even greater challenge than passing the bar While waiting for the lawyers, relatives and debt-
exam, Sylvia Sanchez discovers in this gripping, first ors to settle their differences, Terry attempts to upload
person narrative. You too will writhe in frustration See Lesbian Adventures, page 127.
33 November /December 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsSMOKE AND DANCING IN
MIRRORS THE DARK
A Helen Black Mystery Erotic Love Stories by
Pat Welch Naiad Press Authors
sel liF nr go m m yth ste e r p ye n w ro if t e rb e s Pt a- t E ad nit de d C hb ry i s tB inar e b a Cr aa s s iG dr yier
Welch comes the most In this extraordinary all-
electrifying chapter of her new collection, Naiad's best
high-voltage series featuring — including Jackie Calhoun,
private eye Helen Black. Claire McNab, Laura DeHart
Pat Welch cli nW ic h is e n be si ea g e dc o bym am ntu i-nity health Y Po enun ng y, HE ali ys ea sb ,e t Ph a t N o Wn ea ls c, h,
abortion protestors, Helen Diane Salvatore, Karin
Black's ex-lover begs her to help. Realizing that the Kallmaker, Barbara
only way to get information is from the inside, Helen Johnson, Tracey Richardson, Catherine Ennis and
goes under cover and infiltrates the extremist group. many more — will fill your dance card with their most
Considering all that Helen’s been through in the past, romantic, most erotic stories ever.
the case seems rather routine — until the threats and Dancing in the Dark is the long-awaited follow-up to
vandalism escalate to murder! À the Naiad’s blockbuster collections The Erotic Naiad,
Don't miss other installments of Helen Black's case The Romantic Naiad, The Mysterious Naiad, and The
book: Still Waters, Murder by the Book, A Proper Burial, First Time Ever.
and Open House. ISBN 1-56280-144-9 $14.95
ISBN 1-56280-143-0 $10.95
LAUREL LAUREL TIME AND
Isabel Miller TIME AGAIN
In her richest, most deeply Catherine Ennis
intimate novel ever, the
beloved author of Patience While exploring a deserted
wan od m aS na r a yh o u b r win ilg l s n y evou er a forget s ch u oo niu t ts c ae a i, s n e i M n f gi rl l oi ame wf ti on h md e as n 1 ’a 9 s 3 0b ’a sttered
From the moment Laurel clothes, an unused train
c eli sm cb as p eup aL nuc dill e ’s s tf eir pe s through t aic nk oet t, h a en rd a w lo ov me l ae ntt .e r Mfro im llie’s
the window, Lucille’s life is Catherine lover, Ellen, is fascinated by
changed forever. Captivated Ennis £ the thought of lesbian lovers
intelligence, wild spirit, and sb ey n L sa uur ae ll i’s t yyo ,u t h L, u b ce ia lu lt ey , yearns to which motivates Millie to find out all she cli av ni n ag b oi un t a t h b ey-gone era,
free herself from the self-imposed conventions of her suitcase’s owner. Distracted by her passion for Ellen
generation. But first, she must find the courage to place and her search for the past, Millie is oblivious to
her heart in the hands of the beautiful woman who may warning signs in the present, until she discovers a
be her salvation. deception that will change her life and her love forever!
Isabel Miller is the author of Patience and Sarah, Side Catherine Ennis is the best-selling author of
by Side, The Love of Good Women, and A Dooryard Chautauqua, Clearwater, South of the Line, To the
Full of Flowers. ISBN 1-56280-146-5 $10.95 Lightning, and Up, Up, and Away. ISBN 1-56280-145-7 $10.95
34
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
25 YEARS
a| Nr 7A
Bookpeople was founded 25 years ago in the seem to be moving toward “one publisher, one dis-
idealistic aftermath of the 60s when the employees of tributor, one bookstore,” Bookpeople believes that
a struggļling distribution and publishing business, on diversity in the marketplace — not only in terms of a
the verge of being laid off, unplugged the telephones wide range of bookstores, but also in terms of dis-
and postage meters, gathered up other essentials, and tributors — is crucial to the free flow of ideas.
hid them in and behind the thousands of cartons of Bookpeople President Gene Taback stated during
books in the warehouse, effectively closing the com- Bookpeople’s anniversary celebration, “We are all
pany down. After a month of negotiations, the too aware of the social and economic forces which
employees raised $60,000, bought the distribution threaten diversity and creativity, especially in the
side of the business and, in keeping with the com- book marketplace. To our independent bookstore
mune and worker-owner movements of
the day, created the worker-owned dis-
tributor that has been at the heart of the |
small press movement.
Today Bookpeople is a full-service d
wholesaler of books, calendars, audio cas- \
settes and videos, offering 30,000 small ,
press and trade titles from 3,000 publishers
to booksellers around the world.
The ownership structure created in |
1971 remains in place to this day. The com-
pany is entirely employee-owned and all |
employees become equal shareholders }
after a six-month probation. A five-member :
Board of Directors is elected annually from |
among the shareholders and charged with |
carrying out policies that provide for the |
employees’ needs and general welfare; pro-
moting and encouraging independent
trade book distribution, retailing, and pub-
lishing; and maintaining a democratic
structure of total employee ownership.
Deploring industry trends which
Volume 19 Number 4 35 November /December 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
with the Wolves, Ectopia, the first book on
AIDS, as well as books from many early
feminist presses (including The Women’s
Press Collective, Amazon, Diana,
Persephone, and the Nomadic Sisters) and
books from other social movements had
enormous impact on public consciousness.
In 1972 Bookpeople stocked an unprece-
dented number of titles from small presses
— 60. Today, thanks in part to Bookpeople’s
enthusiastic support of independent
presses, even the largest wholesalers and
chain stores know that stocking inde-
pendent press titles is essential if they are
to have any real credibility as book sources.
In the summer of 1991, Bookpeople
pu b1 l9 is8 h0 e. r B oac fk T r ho ew at, r es t a Cn od min mg u: n T ice ar tr ioy n sN e Gm roet uh p ); ( c tu hr ir re dn t in: moved from Berkeley to Oakland, doubling its ware-
Randall Beek (now CEO of Consortium); eighth in: Michael house space to 70,000 square feet. Once settled in the
Jacobs (current publisher of Simon & Schuster’s new quarters, Bookpeople streamlined its fulfillment
Free Press); ninth in: Edward Bloom (current shipping systems and enhanced its electronic ordering capa-
manager). Sitting, extreme left: Gene Taback (president, bilities. Bookpeople has also just completed
in s kt irr t:a d Je er i b Ru idy dle e r (, f o ua rn thd G Mlo , n ng o e ls ot ng- et re r wm ith Ce om .); p nl eo xy t e te o); mid-dock, installation of a state-of-the-art shrink-wrapping
her: Michelle Dow (current publications editor). process and shipping system.
In 1994, Bookpeople hired Interaction Associates
customers, to whom we have dedicated our profes- to provide business plan expertise. The consulting
sional lives these past 25 years, we would like to point process identified the need for a single general man-
out that the very real threats you feel to independent ager who would do short- and long-range planning
retail bookselling are mirrored on the wholesale side. and could coordinate the activities of various depart-
Only by a strong commitment to our mutual support ment heads with an eye to the big picture. Eighteen
can our independent segment of the book business months after hiring Joel J. Bernstein from a field of a
survive and prosper. We intend to be stronger than hundred applicants, significant gains have been made
ever. You can count on us to keep on busting ass to in cutting the budget while making the company
bring you the quality of service you deserve. We are more efficient. Balancing the seemingly conflicting
confident that we can count on you for your contin- interests of the employees (benefits and working con-
ued business support and loyalty.” (And FBN would ditions) with the needs of the “owners” (the bottom
add, “The concept of independent bookstores would line) is the key to success in this endeavor.
cease to make sense without multiple distributors — Bookpeople is especially proud of its steady
especially independent distributors — as sources for growth rate, successfully avoiding the wild fluctua-
the book mix we cherish.”) tions of many others in the industry, its daily
Some of the titles Bookpeople was first to repre- fulfillment rate (order in by noon, books out by 5:00)
sent and promote demonstrate the independent of nearly 100%, its employee-ownership structure,
regional wholesaler’s ability to keep a finger on the and its famous hot lunch program.
pulse of the idea industry and their role in launching Coming off its most profitable year ever, and with
the books that eventually achieve mass distribution projected sales of $25,000,000 for the 1996/97 fiscal year,
and change the hearts and minds and images of the Bookpeople is poised for continued success.
American public. Books like The Whole Earth Catalog,
How to Keep Your Volkswagen Alive, Spiritual Midwifery, in Fo rF mBoreN B oo kpVeopole l h.i st or1y,5 s ee #“Boo kp e1opl.e ato 21”
South-East Asia on a Shoestring (1976), Women Who Run
November /December 1996 36
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
I first met Bookpeople in 1975, unpacking boxes that I could take “home” to my store and share with
of books that Forest or Paula or one of the other my community.
collective members brought back from the weekly Times have changed. Bell bottoms are no longer
expedition to the Berkeley warehouse. I had just the norm, the sweet smoke of weed no longer wafts
started volunteering at A Woman’s Place Bookstore in out the open warehouse door, and the book industry
Oakland, California, and receiving books was my first is infinitely more complicated than it was in the 70s,
“real” bookstore task (after several weeks of clearing but the warehouse is still my favorite part. Even now,
bulletin boards, running errands, and learning the as much as I love bookstores, my mental picture of
fine art of writing up sales). A Woman’s Place had “wealth” is a Bookpeople-like warehouse filled with
opened five years earlier with “a month's rent, $100, stacks and cases of books in large numbers from all
and a $400 line of credit from Bookpeople.” kinds of publishers — enough books to stock all my
favorite bookstores. And I'm not the only one. Book-
sellers’ dream trips to San Francisco always seem to
My mental picture of “wealth” is a include a morning or afternoon wandering through
Bookpeople’s warehouse. It’s a wonderful pastime —
Bookpeople-like warehouse filled a bookseller’s holiday, if you will. But it’s more than
with stacks and cases of books. that. Independent distributors and wholesalers are
essential to independent bookstores — be they general
stores, feminist, gay, African American, or any other
Four hundred dollars doesn’t seem like a lot of alternative that challenges the status quo — because
money nowadays, but mass market paperbacks were our “independence” is only as strong as our access to
priced at 50¢, trade paperbacks were $2.00-$3.00, and the books that make our stores unique.
a $400 line of credit meant the difference between So, Happy 25th Anniversary, Bookpeople —
having a bookstore and having only a dream. and congratulations and thanks to all of the owner-
Later I learned how to make up the Bookpeople workers past and present who helped the institution
shopping list and finally I learned to invite myself along. May we all be here to celebrate decades of
along on the Bookpeople shopping trip. anniversaries to come. — Carol Seajay O
Years later, long after I had opened my
own store, I learned that I could call Book-
people, read my list of books to an order
taker, and someone in the warehouse
would pull the books and pack them in
boxes for me to pick up the next morning
— or even UPS them directly to the store, |
which saved me the drive over the Bay
Bridge and back.
But I always resisted those efficiencies
of time, preferring to wheel my own cart
through the stacks and pull my own books.
There were always treasures to be found
there — titles previously unknown to me
1996: A crew works to install the new packing/
shipping line in the Oakland warehouse.
37 November /December 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
More feminist
energy per paye...
With 100 pages of editorial in every issue—and no advertising—
that’s a lot of energy! Ms. has grown fresher,
feistier, more life-relevant and reader-friendly than ever.
Display it prominently, and watch sales take off!
Sell the
best selling
feminist
magazine
in the world!
If your distribution
has been interrupted,
call Mary McEvoy
at 212-551-9571.
November /December 1996 38 Volume 19 Number 4
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Returns:
By Carol Seajay returns them like bad pennies to the publishers. And
like bad pennies, the books aren't worth much after
Ask any publisher, large or small: returns were being shipped around the country six or eight times.
bad last fall. Lousy weather and below-expected holi-
day sales meant larger-than-expected post-Christmas Ah, so it’s not all the independent bookstores
returns. But they didn’t stop there. Returns continue after all.
to escalate to the point where publishers, multina- In fact, FBN recently had an opportunity to have
tional and small independent alike, are facing serious a very off-the-record conversation with an Ingram
consequences. executive who confirmed that, while returns from
The problems are very real. Feminist publishers independents are up, returns from chains are coming
have experienced return rates that are almost as high in at a much higher rate than from the independents.
as sales, even in traditionally “good” months. Returns So much for blaming the independents.
swing from 30-50% to 55-60%. Several publishers And this confirms the reports from publishers who
have experienced several months where returns actu- are able to track the source of their returns. Said one
ally exceeded sales. A 30-50% return rate for the year publisher of her 45-51% return rate, “Virtually all our
means that bills don’t get paid and books aren't May returns were from Ingram — which means they're
reprinted, and may mean that titles are postponed. from B&N. Ninety percent of our June returns were
Long term, these kinds of return rates spell disaster for from Borders, 5% were from Ingram.” She also reported
both feminist and mainstream publishers. receiving three separate returns shipped the same week
that her new list was published — all three from chain
Everyone agrees that returns are a problem, but stores that apparently decided to return the books without
no one agrees on the cause of the problem. even putting them on the shelf for a three-day test run.
Independent bookstores were the first scapegoat.
“They return books rather than pay bills,” one Returns from chains are coming
now-defunct wholesaler has told FBN. “Independents in at a much higher rate than from
are closing, so they return books as if to forestall the the independents. So much for
inevitable,” another explained. There was even, in one blaming the independents.
of these conversations, an implication that feminist
bookstores were responsible for the surge in returns.
(I wish feminist bookstores controlled a big enough In the long run, “blame” is only important 1) if
piece of the book industry to be able to be responsible yov’re the one unjustly being accused of being respon-
for the entire problem of returns!) sible, or 2) if it provides insight into solving the
The truth lies closer to this comment from a more problem. Number one being resolved, for the length
savvy distributor: “Chains don’t return books to us — of this column anyway, let's move on to some of the
returns come from independent stores and from more common explanations.
Ingram.” What was understood in this conversation
was that chains return their books to Ingram, Ingram “Stores are returning books to pay bills.” Probably
returns them to the distributor, and the distributor true in some cases, but it’s a limited resource. Generally
39 November /December 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
independent bookstores who do this clean up their act, orders, is the equivalent of taking a 25-45% return
learn to order responsibly, or go out of business. before the season even begins.
“Stores with computerized inventory systems And, of course, there is a chronic problem of
tend to get bloated and need to reduce their stock to unrealistically large initial orders that inevitably
keep balance with their cash flow.” Yep, a common result in returns later.
learning-curve problem, but not one that can be In the case of an unrealistic sale to an independent,
repeated indefinitely, ditto the above. the books will come back to the publisher within the
Wholesalers, including the one who pushes year, probably sooner. But an unrealistic sale to a chain
“just-in-time ordering” as a way to sell inventory — especially one in the midst of an expansion program
systems, are now embracing “just-in-time ordering” — may not come back to haunt the publisher for several
for themselves. Wholesalers that used to stock two- years. In the “good old days” (a year ago), “chains
to three-month supplies of frontlist titles now order a didn’t return overstock, they just shifted it to other
month’s supply and adjust their stock on a weekly locations or used it to fill up the shelves of new stores.”
basis, returning what is perceived as excess stock But nowadays, chains face cash flow problems, too.
immediately — even if it means reordering the same Chains that are busy closing “underperforming” stores
titles again in two to three weeks. This means that return dead stock. From the reports we hear, it doesn't
publishers and distributors are sending out fresh matter if the books are two to three years old. I have yet
copies of a title even before they have finished proc- to hear of a distributor or wholesaler refusing to accept
essing the original return. (Title this picture a return from a chain because the books were purchased
“Publishers’ Hell.”) The publishers would probably too long ago, or because the books were too shopworn
be better off if the wholesaler would just keep the to send out again.
books and pay a(nother) month later. But most of these explanations are situational —
One r publisher told H PW that Ingram h as been L one-time problems o ccurring aas the industry adapts
cutting their inventory from a six- or seven-week sup- to industry-wide “just-in-time ordering.” They create
ply óf books to a four-week supply. That transition, a major glitch in the system, to be sure, but once the
whether it comes as overt returns or smaller initial kinks get worked out it should be business as usual
Check all the boxes you can and mail to FBN, I am/We are: [1 Owned and operated by i
ı PO Box 882554, San Francisco, CA 94188 [H Reader/Bibliophile women !
: 1 [1 ] WNomaenm's Setu d ie[s J Te ac hLer i [b1] r Coa-orwineadn an d arunn dby wmomeen n! !
: : B u siAnessd Ndamre e Ds Wsr it er[ H[1 O wnBedo aondk opseeratleld e bry m en: ! :
!i: LC iP P ihu b[ lJi s Ch Pe rerr a ipofd itWcsale w Oa olSsPmoS s aBto nOcOk K: S !' 1
o::; C oY [n/ HeSeRn I Z [ei op1 rt E haG e[laH r y F e immÈnin Getins te' s nr i o nnte- iifst il c et "i so n1 :: '
: [1: O ne Yeaer- $7m0. Checki ennclosed.i B ooks toreCs, Pubhlishersi anld d[O Lerftist/epolitnical : !
: [] One Year- $75. Bil us. P YOU IOCUS DAMAY: E New age/metaphysical !
: [D] + $9 for Canadian postage. [1 Lesbian LJ other ;
: [D] + $19 for other international postage. [J Lesbian & Gay i
1 a H Gay [H Back issues available — $6 :
: 1/2 year - $35. [D Alternative/political each or $30/year. Check
i [J Sample copy - $6. [J General independent enclosed. j
November /December 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
again. But it isn’t. The situation isn't improving yet, The Catch-22 in this rosy (for publishers, if not for
even with Ingram and B&T imposing penalties of one independent booksellers) picture is that the books
kind or another. aren't selling through. The expanded sales space isn’t
generating a proportionate expansion in retail book
So obviously there's more to it than any of these sales. And now the books are being returned to the
logical or even blame-and-guilt explanations. New publishers — directly and via wholesalers. The gold-
England Booksellers Association president Suzy en age of sales has degenerated into the dirty age of
Staubach offers a key to the problem. In NEBA's used wallpaper.
August newsletter she writes, “The number of selling So it turns out that the burst of expansion in
ouitnletcs rfore abosokes h asi ninc re asded e wmithoautn a d co.n”cu rr en`t superstores isn't as much an asset to publishers as it
initially seemed. The irony is that some (many?) of the
And therein lies the crux of the problem. Super- publishers who are suddenly on the receiving end of
stores, for all their propaganda about “expanding the this first wave of returns helped to finance the super-
market” and “selling books to previously unserved chains’ expansion with new-branch store discounts,
márkets,” havent significantly increased book sales. sweetheart deals, and very-extended credit terms.
Depending on who’s doing the analysis and what
their parameters are, book sales have increased 2-6% What do you get if you double
over the last five years. But, at the same time, super- the sales space in a low growth
stores have just about doubled the amount of space industry? Wallpaper —
devot e Sd o t wo h r ate t a dil o b yo oo uk s e gl eli tn g i. f you double the sales space books that are used for decoration,
in a low growth industry? Basically: wallpaper — that can’t possibly sell.
books that are used for decoration, books that make
stores look full and rich but that can’t possibly sell. Initially it was independent bookstores who
And then, when the books begin to get dusty, they're cried “foul,” but, in the long run, it is going to be the
returned and, inevitably, replaced with newer, fresher publishers who will have to take a hard look at the
titles that will also, in turn, get dusty and turn into situation and recognize that providing wall coverings
returns. At least in the furniture rental business those for seven million square feet of new sales space, which
who provide the furniture get paid for their services. doesn't generate increased sell-through, is not only
In the book industry publishers are providing the not in the best interests of the entire book industry, it
“furnishings” for free — and some are even paying to is creating a non-viable economic conundrum for the
ship the wall coverings to the stores. publishers themselves.
Until (or unless) book sales increase or shelf space But here is where hope lies: if publishers decide
decreases, returns in the industry will hover at about to stop financing chain growth at their own expense,
50%. Correction: make that 50% plus whatever the if they strictly enforce the returns policies already in
“old” rate of returns was, minus the 2—6% increase in existence, and if they decide to invoke policies that
sales. Unless, of course, the chains continue to expand preclude the “wallpapering” of new superstores with
selling space faster than they drive independents out books on long-term loan, then there’s a chance that the
of business. In that case, look for returns to continue book industry can be returned to a balance that allows
to rise to 60 or 70 or 80%. for successful operation of all the necessary parts:
publishers, large and small; bookstores, independent
This current crisis in publishing/bookselling is and chain; and distributors and wholesalers, large
rooted in the belief that expanded sales space and an and small, corporate to fiercely independent.
expanded number of outlets would, necessarily, It’s becoming increasingly clear that if one part of
increase book sales. the industry is flourishing at the expense of other
As the superstores started to multiply, publishers’ parts, or if one part of the industry is in trouble — be
sales did increase. It was almost a “golden age” of it booksellers or publishers or distributors — we're all
(apparent) sales growth for some publishers. going to lose in the long run. O
41 November /December 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
O
By Jenn Tust a community of readers, celebrating the joys of living
with books, exploring the place of reading and books
A gala awards ceremony on October 25 honored in women’s lives and spreading the word about
Joan Nestle, winner of the Bill Whitehead Award for women writers and their work. Articles and reader-
Lifetime Achievement, and Felice Picano and Sarah exchanges will discuss bookscapes in our lives,
Schulman, winners of this year's Ferro-Grumley reading friendships, the sensuality of books, the
Awards for Outstanding Novel for Like People In reader-writer connection, reading as a feminist act,
History and Rat Bohemia. The affair also marked the books on the road, behind the scenes, and more. Regu-
presentation of the Robert Chesley Playwriting lar features will include a book column by Glenda
Award to Susan Miller, and the Lifetime Achieve- Martin, “don’t miss” titles, subscribers’ thoughts and
ment Award to Robert Patrick. The awards carry a recommendations. 6 issues/$24/year. BookWomen,
cash prize of $1,000. Minnesota Women’s Press, Inc., 771 Raymond Ave-
nue, St. Paul MN 55114, fax 612-646-2186, e-mail
The Fifth Annual Astraea Lesbian Writers Fund (womenpress@aol.com). Bookstore distribution
Gala was held on November 1. The Gala is an annual information not yet available.
tribute to lesbian writers and lesbian culture and cele- al
brates the Lesbian Writers Fund, which awards grants
to emerging lesbian writers of poetry and fiction.
Anndee Hochman won the 1996 award for fiction. She
is a freelance writer who's work has appeared in pub- The Union Institute Center for Women announces
lications from The New York Times Book Review to Ms. the 1997 Audre Lorde Legacy Award for Women’s
She is the author of Everyday Acts & Small Subversions: and/or Multicultural Studies. The $3,000 award recog-
Women Reinventing Family, Community and Home. nizes exceptional work in building coalitions between
Vanessa Haley is the winner for poetry. After a 13 year scholars and activists. Individuals, informal groups
academic career Haley is now a counselor specializing that have formed for a specific project, emerging grass-
in women’s issues. Her poems have appered in Poetry roots groups or organizations, and formal nonprofit
and the Southern Poetry Review. She is the author of organizations that focus on women’s/multicultural
Fictions. Highlights included readings by Kitty Tsui projects are eligible to apply. Deadline: November 15.
and Sarah Schulman and a selection from Urban Bush Contact: The Union Institute Center for Women, 1710
Woman and Jewelle Gomez’s dance, theater, music Rhode Island Avenue NW #1100, Washington DC
piece, Ash and Bone: A Gilda Story. 20036; 800-969-6676, fax 202-496-1635.
Minnesota Women’s Press is establishing a new Dufour Editions, one of America’s leading dis-
publication for book lovers called BookWomen, which tributors of books from the U.K., Ireland and the
aspires to be a conversation among readers of Continent has just released their first complete
women’s words. BookWomen is dedicated to building See Announcements, page 69.
November /December 1996 42 Volume 19 Number 4
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
By Jacqueline Dumas 17% profit is necessary to satisfy the shareholders. I
Orlando Books/Edmonton Alberta wonder how many publishers are still owned by people
who are interested in good writing, in ideas, in the
Reprinted with permission from Orlando's summer books themselves, and how many are now branches of
newsletter. the entertainment industry and other conglomerates
interested strictly in profits?
On Publishers Some accounts have become so huge that it's
The other day I received an invitation to attend a difficult to pay the bills on time. In the pre-monster-
seminar which would teach me to “bury the competi- publisher days, I dealt with hundreds of accounts, and
tion.” Why would I want to bury the competition? Is if I had a slow couple of weeks, I could hold back one
there not room for all of us to make our living? Is it not invoice from everyone until next month and everyone
desirable that we all survive? That we all be able to was happy. If I am to hold back payment now, it means
enjoy our work? To pay taxes? So much in the book holding back 10 or 15 invoices from each of the
world is mirroring the global tendency for the big to monster publishers, which is not acceptable.
get bigger and bigger, and the small to not just get One of our major headaches has been Canbook,
smaller but to be gobbled up. distributor for Penguin and McClelland & Stewart,
among others. Canbook is one of those companies
which has been gobbling up smaller publishers, ex-
In September, the bestseller panding its facilities, to the point where it is so bloated
with itself it can no longer supply service. The only
list which we compile for the efficient department seems to be accounts receivable.
Sunday edition of the On bestseller lists and special interest groups, or why
Marilyn Dumont and Robert Kroetsch don’t count...
Edmonton Journal In mid-September, the small bestseller list which
we compile weekly for the Sunday edition of the
mysteriously vanished Edmonton Journal mysteriously vanished while
Gordan Morash, the books editor, was on holiday. I
phoned Bob Remington, the entertainment editor, and
In some ways, July, August and September have he said he pulled our list because: it’s “too alterna-
been months of disappointment and headaches. First tive;” it represents “special interest groups;” as far as
came the sad demise of Coach House Press, then news he knows we could be making up the list; and anyway,
that Routledge had fired many of its editors and was the Journal “is always covering gay and lesbian
cutting down on its cultural studies list because the new issues.” Ah, “gay” and “lesbian” — there’s the rub.
owners decided that it’s not enough for a publisher to I admitted that our store indeed reflects a diverse
make a 7% profit (long considered to be an extremely population which includes feminists, people with left-
healthy “performance” in the book business) but that a ist political views, writers, people who enjoy
43 November /December 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Canadian and international fiction and poetry (espe- writers. In answer to Mr. Remington’s suspicions that
cially from the small presses), cultural studies, science, our lists may be less accurate than the Maclean’s lists, I
music, and of course, gay and lesbian books — in wonder if he’s aware that some large publishers rou-
short, books which, if they are available, are not high- tinely pay the large chain stores to feature certain books
lighted elsewhere in the city. at the front of their stores in the “bestseller” sections? I
At first we were given our regular turn with the wonder which stores Maclean's contacts for its bestseller
other independents at compiling the Edmonton list. list? The magazine has certainly never called us.
Then one day I was told that our store was no longer to We hope that all the writers who are reading at
be included as it does not reflect mainstream Edmon- our store in the coming months will see their books
ton. I granted that this was true (at least I hope it is), but make our “special interest” bestseller list, instead of
that our selection does represent the interests of an books like The Celestine Prophecy and Ten Stupid Things
important part of the reading public. Gordon Morash Women Do To Mess Up Their Lives.
then graciously agreed to print our weekly bestseller list
of 10 titles (alongside the Maclean's list of 20 titles and Meanwhile, be sure to pick up your copy of The
the mainstream independenť’s list of 40 titles). Feminist Bookstores Holiday Catalogue and relax in
So what's the problem? Our weekly list repre- our reading area; enjoy Barbara Hartman’s
sents 10 titles out of 70. The last time I looked, more Bloomsbury style mural of bookshelves, a fireplace,
than 1 out of 7 people in Edmonton voted neither and of course, a cat. Here you can have a coffee, read
Conservative nor Reform, and yes, the gay/lesbian about our current Charity of the Month and, if you
population was estimated to be about 20%. like, leave a small donation. Orlando Books sponsors
By the way, the bestseller list which Bob Remington a different charity each month, featuring organiza-
did not print on September 15 was as follows: tions ranging from the Women’s Shelter to the
Prostitute Resource Centre to small literary maga-
FICTION & POETRY zines to local choral groups to performance groups to
1. A Really Good Brown Girl, Marilyn Dumont, various AIDS groups to peace groups. We provide
Brick Books, $12.95 each group with space to put up a display, including
2. The Piano Man’s Daughter, Timothy Findley, pamphlets, etc., describing what it is that they do and
HarperCollins, $8.99 to solicit volunteers. The coffee is free, but customers
3. Search Procedures, Erin Mour, House of Anansi arge inrviteod uto lpeave a dfonateiona wthicuh irs geivend to. th eŠ
Press, $15.95
4. Regeneration, Pat Barker, Penguin, $12.95
5. Fugitive Pieces, Ann Michaels, McClelland &
Stewart, $19.99 Statement of Ownership, Management and Circulation:
FEMINIST BOOKSTORE NEWS (10/1/96), published
NONFICTION monthly in January, March, May, July, August, September and
1. A Likely Story, Robert Kroetsch, Red Deer aN ddo rv ese s m ofb e Kr no. w nS u Ob ffs ic cer i op ft i Po ubn li c ap tior ni :c e 23: 5 8 $ M70 ar/ ky et e a Str . / 3s rt dore. Mailing
College Press, $16.95 Floor Rear, San Francisco, CA 94114-1521. Mailing Address of
2. Life's Companion, Christina Baldwin, Bantam, Headquarters: Same. Publisher, Editor, Managing Editor and
$15.95 O 2w 5n 5e 4r: . C a Kro nl o S weaj nay , bP oO n B do hx o 8 l8 d25 e5 r4, s : S a n n oF nra enc . is c Ao, v C eA r a 9 g41 e8 8 - Number of Copies
3. My Point (And I Do Have One), Ellen Each Issue During Preceeding 12 Months (Actual Number of
DeGeneres, Bantam, $7.99 Copies September 1995/Single Issue Published Nearest to
4. Race and the Education of Desire, Ann Stoler, Filing Date): A-Total Copies/Net Press Run: 925 (900). B-Paid
Duke University Press, $22.50 a cn ard r/ io er r s ,R e sq tu ree est te d v e C ni dr oc ru sl a t ai no dn c1 o) u nS tal ee rs st ah ler so : u g 0h ( 0d )e , a l 2e )r Ms, ail
5. Prayers for Bobby, Leroy Aarons, HarperCollins, Subscription 486 (494). C-Total Paid or Requested Circulation:
$16.75 486 (494). D-Free Distribution: 47 (43). E-Total Distribution:
562 (545). F-Copies Not Distributed 1)Office use, leftover, etc:
363 (355), 2)Returns from News Agents: 0 (0). G-Total: 925
We're very pleased that both of our “special (900). Signed Carol Seajay, Editor & Publisher. PS Form 3526.
interest” lists for Edmonton were topped by Alberta
November /December 1996 44
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Compiled by Jenn Tust
Memory Mambo by Achy Obejas tells of the
immigrant experience in a very engaging way. A
woman's quest for her reality. It let a white girl
glimpse into Cuban and Cuban American lives
through a lesbian storyteller’s eyes. Often, I could
see and smell the sights and sounds of the scenes as
tCheyl e wiesr e bPeirnge dsesve.l op e—d. $D12e.9b5 rpba, 1 -5R73e44s-0n17i-5k, Into the Forest by Jean Hegland takes the reader
FOFBN into the lives of two teenage sisters surviving rural
California in a gradually disintegrating USA — as elec-
“Zoiks!” I exclaimed when I was 20 pages into tricity, gas, outside communication and government
The Hearing Trumpet by Leonora Carrington. “I've cease to exist. Theirs is a powerful story of friendship,
been waiting for this book all my life!” I was com- learning to let go of the props we think we need to
pletely swept off my feet by the 92-year-old narrator survive and embracing the offerings of nature. This is
and her hilarious adventures, which include organiz- not “Pollyanna” and it is a “guaranteed read” at Full
ing hunger fasts against murderers, saving the planet Circle Books! $13.95 pb, 0934971501, Calyx. —Anne
from an impending ice age, finding the Holy Grail and Full Circle Books/Albuquerque NM
knitting sweaters out of cat hair. Carrington combines
fable and myth in prose so beautifully written I could Ghost Singer by Anna Lee Walters (Pawnee/
read this book a hundred times in a row. Read it Otoe) is a stunning novel about the disastrous effects
yoEurxselfa acndt g iv e C it has aa ngifgt! e$15..9 5 c—l, 18M78972a19r7,y ( te im ono t i oo nn a l t h a es pw eoe pll l e a s w hp oh y as ric ea l) s t oo lf e n c u fl rtu omra l a a sp p wr eo lp l r i aa s- on
Amazon Bookstore/Minneapolis MN those who do the stealing. Navajo history is woven
throughout the book in the form of stories an old man
Push by Sapphire is without question the most tells his grandchildren. Indigenous spirituality and
powerful incest recovery novel I’ve ever read. Along healing are utilized as ever-present resources in the
with a violent sexually abusive father and a blaming struggle to survive intact in the White world. One of
physically abusive mother, the protagonist, Precious, the real treasures of this book (aside from its eloquent
endures against spirit crushing poverty and illiteracy. style and tone) is that the point of view of the narra-
Sapphire’s writing is spare, brutal and totally appro- tive is Native American. What a wake-up call for
priate — no gratuitous violence here. The reality of whites to be observed from an objective distance
this kind of story will only increase as our nation instead of being central to the story, instead of being
continues to punish the poor and end literacy projects the “norm.” “He’s as smart as any other white man”
like the one that gives this novel a hopeful ending. A is one of many lines that certainly gives whites
“guaranteed.read” at Full Circle Books! $20 cl, another way of seeing themselves. I read this book on
0679446265, Knopf. —Anne the heels of a “lesbian adventure novel” where a
Full Circle Books/Albuquerque NM white author portrays the spirituality of a tribe in the
45 November /December 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
OH, SOMEONE JUST NO, DoT BOTHER. I
BOUGHT THE LAST COPY! HAVE TO GO OVER Td THE
WE'RE GETTING MORE MALL ANYWAY. T'LL JUST
IN ON TUESDAY. CAN I PICK ONE UP AT BUNNS
HoLD ONE FOR YoU ? Z
HI, MO. HI, JEZ. SPEAKWC M LORD HAVE MERCY! I
OF CUTTHROATS » HERES YOUR SHOULDVE STAYED IN
COMPLETED TAY RETURN. TONI THE DOG GROOMING
S B BUSINESS WITH AVRT j
Amazon with ideas so oversimplified she implies ing the lives of Latina women and girls in L.A. This
these folks just don’t have much depth (but that’s a second book chronicles in gorgeous, lush prose a sea-
whole other review!). I took two lessons from these son in the lives of a group of migrant farm workers. It
books. First is the importance of primary source ma- succeeds as both a novel and an indictment against
terial — if you are interested in the thoughts/lives of the exploitation of migrant workers. $9.95,
people of other races or cultures, read the writers of 0452273870, Plume. —Bookwoman/Austin TX
that group. There are whole sections of non-white
writers at Full Circle. The second is the importance of Places in the World a Woman Could Walk: Short
coalition-work; I may be a lesbian, and love to read Stories by Janet Kauffman. This re-release of a pre-
about lesbians, but I also must acknowledge that viously out-of-print title is one of the most vivid,
some lesbian-generated material may be detrimental poignant collections I've read. These stories of women
to the work that we need to do to break the racial in the Midwest are populated with farmers, hair dress-
tensions in our community. A “guaranteed read” at ers, mothers, children, widows and chickens.
Full Circle Books! $19.95, 0826315453, University of Kauffman’s language is sharp, clear and breathtaking.
New Mexico Press. $12, 1555972330, Graywolf. —Bookwoman/Austin TX
—Anne A.
Full Circle Books/Albuquerque NM Home Alive: The Art of Self Defense. Born out
of anger at the brutal rape and murder of The Gits
Under the Feet of Jesus by Helena Maria Vira- singer Mia Zapata, this double-CD fund-raiser (to
montes. Viramontes has been one of my favorite help find the murderer) includes songs or spoken-
authors since she published The Moths & Other Stories word performances by Ann and Nancy Wilson, 7 Year
($9.95 pb, Arte Publico), an exquisite collection detail- Bitch, Joan Jett, Tribe 8, Nirvana and Pearl Jam. It
November /December 1996 46
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
contains a chilling mission statement too long to write of AIDS, drug addiction and betrayal, and the harrow-
here. The cause and the music are definitely worth a ing, heartbreaking moment when Winik must help
purchase. A way-cool release. Various artists, tape her husband to die. Winik is a commentator for NPR.
$14.95, CD $20, Sony. —Lori I was captured by this book — sometimes cursing it,
Amazon Bookstore/Minneapolis MN sometimes laughing and sometimes crying. $23 cl,
0-679-44572-2, Pantheon.
Are you adventurers out there — armchair or A Simpler Way, Margaret Wheatley and Myron
otherwise — looking for a great story? Check out Kellner-Rogers. Life on earth is creative, experimenting
Kabloona in the Yellow Kayak: One Woman's and self-organizing, not hierarchical and rational. This
Journey Through the Northwest Passage by Victoria book encourages us to organize our lives and our cul-
Jason. In probably the only book of its kind, Victoria tures in the same way — honoring the messy, playful
writes about kayaking thousands of miles of the Arctic ways of being. I found this to be a wonderful alternative
coast through the summers of 1991-1994. She starts to all those “how to organize your life” titles. $27.95 cl,
out the journey with a guy who quickly reveals him- 1-881052-95-8, Berrett-Koehler. Available from PGW.
self to be a total jerk and goes on to do much of the I enjoy Sandra Scoppettone’s work a lot and
journey alone. She's fearless, loaded with common hype her to customers — but she won my heart with
sense, loving of the animals and people she meets and this passage from Let’s Face the Music and Die
absolutely determined to live her dreams. An inspir- ($21.95 cl, 0316776645, Little, Brown, 1996, page
ing role model for us nearing-50 folks, as well as for 184): “I watch as she goes into the big Barnes &
women of any age. $22.95 cl, 0888012012, Turnstone Noble. Although it’s large, it isn’t suitable for safe
Press. Distributed in the U.S. by LPC/InBook. surveillance, so I check the time and wait across the
—Barb Weiser street. Sometimes I go in B & N to see what's new,
Amazon Bookstore/Minneapolis MN have a cup of coffee, read magazines for free, but I
never buy anything, in deference to the independent
Titles I've uncovered in my recent wanderings: bookstores in general, Three Lives in particular... I
Money Meditations for Women, Jo Anne Lordahl. don’t believe that B & N, or the other superstores
I found all sorts of support and encouragement in this that are trying to crowd out the small guys, will
book. $9.95 pb, 0-89087-694-0, Celestial Arts. create new readers. Although some might shop for
First Comes Love by Marion Winik is a true, the-discounts, those who go to drink coffee and pick
bittersweet and sometimes unnerving story of the up people won't suddenly become book buyers. My
passion between a straight woman and a gay man — feeling is that these stores are going to crash and
their falling in love, marrying and raising two sons, burn. I only hope it won't happen zøfter they've
the crumbling of their happiness under the pressure buried the independents.” —Dorothy Holland
THEY SERVE CLARICE ? THAT PLACE 1S OWNED BY A GIGANTIC
GREAȚ CORPORATION ! BOOKS ARE JUST A COMMODITY TO THEM,
CAPPUCCINO, | LIKE SMALL APPLIANCES, OR... OR HEALTH INSURANCE !
TOO. ER... So | THEY DoN'T CARE ABOUT LITERATURE , OR IDEAS, OR
| COMMUNITY J >"
47
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Compiled by Jenn Tust essay on fat feminism by Women En Large editor
Debbie Notkin. The Tokyo Metropolitan Museum of
Back to Press Photography, one of the few such institutions in the
Warriors of Isis (now $11.99) and Isis Rising (now world, is the first cultural institution in Japan to spe-
$11.99), both from Rising Tide, have gone back to press cialize in photography and the visual arts. Laurie and
for a total of 20,000 copies in print. Debbie are flying to Japan for the opening. Go girls!
A Ch oT ich ee bB ou tt hc h fes r o mof LM auad gi hs o n L i nC eo su n Pt ry e s sa n rd e c eW nh tlo y C war ee ns t If Its S
back to press. Butches now has 6,000 copies in print
and Who Cares has 11,000 copies in print.
V
Rights
Women’s Press-U.K. has sold North American
r toig h Tt hs e o Nf e wM u Pst rn e' st s G (sr eu em “b Sl me: a lW l r Pi rt ein ssg e s ”b y f oD ri s a rb el ve id e w W )omen Awards
and All the Rage to Teacher's College Press. They Karen X. Tulchinsky’s In Her Nature (Women’s
have sold Korean rights to two titles: Nervous Condi- Press /Canada) won the 1996 VanCity Book Prize for
tions by Tsisti Dangarembga to Jakaknamu and The best B.C. book pertaining to women’s issues. Tulchin-
Dreams of Women by Lucy Goodison to the Korean sky was presented the award at the Second Annual
Alternative Culture Publishing Company. Dutch Word On the Street Literary Arts Festival in Septem-
rights to Javady Alley by Manny Shirazi went to De ber in Vancouver.
Geus. Large print rights for Marcia Muller’s Leave a The Athena Awards for independent producers
Message for Willie were sold to Chivers, and rights to working in lesbian film and video making were
Wolf in the Shadows went to Thorndike. announced in August. The awards and winners were:
Pandora published a U.K. edition for Dyke Life Outstanding Achievement in Experimental Film, But
edited by Karla Jay. Would You Take Her Back (Judith Redding/ Victoria
Our Bodies, Ourselves (Simon & Schuster) has Brownworth); Outstanding Achievement in Experi-
been translated into Chinese and published in main- mental Animation, Anastasia and The Queen of Hearts
land China. (Shawn Atkins); Best Short Film, Uncommon Grounds
(Pamela Whyte); Outstanding Achievement in Long
Good News Form Music Video, The Cowgirl Sweethearts (Beverly
Ten photographs from the series “Women En Buhr/Melissa Dopp); Best Documentary, Their Own
Large: Images of Fat Nudes” by Laurie Toby Edison Vietnam (Nancy D. Kates); and Best Feature Length
will be exhibited at the Tokyo Metropolitan Museum Film, The Midwife’s Tale (Megan Siler).
of Photography. The show, titled “Gender: Beyond Ofelia Dumas Lachtman’s The Girl from Playa
Memory,” runs from September 5 to October 27. The Blanca (Arte Público Press) won a 1996 Benjamin
exhibit, curated by Michiko Kasahara, features the Franklin Award for Juvenile-Young Adult Fiction.
work of international women artists. The exhibit cata- Alba Amberť’s A Perfect Silence (Arte Público Press)
log will include ten photographs by Edison and an See Back to Press, page 66.
November /December 1996 48
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
By Jenn Tust and Carol Seajay additional titles to include in her next catalog, so if
you want to send a review copy.... Heygirl Mailorder,
Stores Open PO Box 878, Atkinson NH 03811-0878.
Jane Douglas, Gayle Rayfield and Jean Narunsky
opened Brava! A Plaza for Women in early October in Mary Pietrowski is working on A Woman’s Spirit
Redwood City, a short drive south from San Francisco. — The Global Woman’s Bookstore and Marketplace,
The store has two floors: the 2,500-square-foot first “an on-line woman's bookstore” that will feature an
floor holds books, a coffeebar and a baby grand piano; on-line inventory of 300,000 general titles. She is also
the 2,200-square-foot upstairs is open to the lower planning to have a women’s business directory, cus-
floor in the middle (like a mezzanine) and will be a tomer reviews and recommendations, classified ads
gallery for women’s artwork. Brava!, 2209 Broadway, and other book-related sections. The site is up at
Redwood City CA 94063; 415-369-3335. {http://www.womanspirit.com} with a “coming
soon” notice. You can reach Mary at 1257 Worcester
Shirley Walker and Susan Smiel operate The Road #293, Framingham MA 01701; 508-877-3303, fax
Lavender Rose, a mobile book service focusing on 508-877-0985, e-mail {athena1@tiac.net}.
lesbian/gay, feminist and women’s issues in
Winnipeg. They attend conferences and events and Tina Yeamans and Eli Raindancer are the owners
have book parties in people's homes (like Tupper- of Whispering Wisdom, a lesbian/gay mail-order
ware parties). Shirley and Susan are hoping to open company based in Salt Lake City. They started the
a store in the spring. The Winnipeg women’s com- business at the end of May doing mail-order and local
munity is still grieving the loss of Bold Print and will festivals and are planning to open an actual store
surely welcome the new store. The Lavender Rose, some time next year. You can reach them at PO Box
3D-440 Assiniboine Avenue, Winnipeg Manitoba 3326, Salt Lake City UT 84110; 801-530-1488.
R3C 0Y1, Canada; 204-956-1620.
Women of Wisdom, a new age gift shop in North-
easton, Massachusetts, opened August 31. Katie
Ramaci, the owner, wanted a place that is empower-
ing to all people, especially women. The space has
The Heygirl Mailorder catalog is now available. three rooms, one of which is used for workshops,
Mary Ellen LeBlanc put together the 20-page black- healing circles, meditation and tai chi. About 25 min-
and-white catalog with 140 scanned covers and utes south of Boston, and an hour north of the cape,
short blurbs for hot lesbian-interest titles from all Women of Wisdom (with its catchy sign) gets a lot of
areas including erotica, romance and science fiction. drive-by traffic from those taking an alternative route
Although it has taken Mary Ellen a lot longer than to or from Boston. The store is 40 percent books
she'd planned to get the business up and running, (women’s health, women’s studies, psychology, self-
she says her persistence has paid off and she’s opti- help, astrology, healing, etc.) and 60 percent sidelines
mistic for the future. She also said she’s looking for (music, cards, jewelry, T-shirts, art prints, etc.). Katie's
Volume 19 Number 4
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
excited to have a neighbor that practices Chinese all?) of the descriptions on Sapphisticate’s list of fea-
medicine, massage and tai chi moving next door. tured authors come directly from Amazon.com
Women of Wisdom, 118 Washington Street, North- and/or publishers’ materials. You'll find Patricia
easton MA 02356; 508-230-3680. Cornwell here, but not Barbara Wilson; Rita Mae, but
not Jane Rule — and only three or four feminist press
FBN happened upon Sapphisticate, an on-line titles in the whole bunch. Odd, given the site name,
“book source” for the “dykescriminating” reader. Sap- not to mention the lesbian content of listed titles such
phisticate is a member of the Amazon.com Associates as Oranges Out of Season or The Color Purple... All of
program and all books are ordered through/ delivered which, I'm sure, will be remedied over time.
by Amazon.com. Amazon.com claims that a thousand
associated Web sites are currently participating in this
program, which pays the site-owner a 3-8% commis-
sion on all books sold through these “outside” sites.
According to its home page, Sapphisticate “was Mending Hearts is a six-month-old self-help and
created to provide access to lesbian literary work recovery store in Fort Wayne, Indiana. (Fort Wayne is
[for] those who, for whatever reason, choose not to a town of 200,000 people located 21⁄2 hours east of
visit gay/lesbian bookstores or conduct credit card Chicago, 21⁄2 hours south of Detroit and 2 hours north
transactions with gay/lesbian identified sites.” All of Indianapolis.) The owners, Amy Etzler and Cindy
transactions from this site will be billed and shipped Thomas, both have full-time jobs outside of the store.
by Amazon.com, an on-line bookstore that carries They work evenings and weekends at the store, while
practically every book in print and therefore special- Jamie Owens manages the day-to-day operations of
izes in nothing. It continues, “The interest and Mending Hearts. The 1,000-square-foot store carries
opportunities in lesbian books and bookselling is titles pertaining to 12-stepping, wellness, the inner
growing proportionate to our visibility and our child and other recovery issues, plus music, books,
efforts. The business of bookselling will always be gifts and more. Mending Hearts, 1305 East State
done best by booksellers in bookstores. On-line book Boulevard, Fort Wayne IN 46805; 219-482-1200, fax
shopping will never replace the experience of stand- 219-482-5536.
ing between tall shelves surrounded by hundreds of
volumes and authors who share our deepest bonds. The Reading Edge, owned by Margaret Conner,
Some of us, however, are not able to shop in book- is a 1,200-square-foot general bookstore specializing
stores or, to find in the bookstores we have access to, in lesbian/gay, African American, and women’s
the titles we would like to purchase. Sapphisticate issues and writings. Located in the downtown area of
will attempt to bridge the gap between readers and Savannah, an area that is going through a period of
writers of lesbian literature, with the express pur- revitalization, The Reading Edge opened with a rib-
pose of enhancing the visibility and the distribution bon-cutting in June followed by a reception. The
of lesbian books.” Reading Edge has a computer station with a CD-ROM
Of course there’s some bitter irony here — the of Books in Print for the customers to use (which has
implication that lesbian readers would be “safer” generated special orders), a newsstand /coffeebar
ordering books from Amazon.com, which is a area, and comfortable chairs for leisurely browsing.
generic name, than from, say, (feminist) Amazon The store is also used by groups for special events.
Bookstore, which had been in business for 25 years Margaret's goal for the store is that it become a com-
when Amazon.com appropriated the name for munity /neighborhood space for people to come to
themselves, but I digress... find interesting events and a comfortable atmosphere.
{Sapphisticate.com} is obviously a site under 202 East Broughton Street, Savannah GA 31401;
development. “Featured authors,” for instance, 912-236-1006, fax 912-236-3245.
includes an odd list of 14 authors with descriptions of
their works, 3 or 4 of which include no lesbian content Frances Werner, a retired attorney who “took 20
or you couldn't tell it by the descriptions. Some (many, years to get up to the Russian River full-time,” is the
November /December 1996 50
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
owner of River Reader, a “clean well-lighted” one- Juan, Puerto Rico. The 3,600-square-foot store will spe-
year-old bookstore in Guerneville, California. As a cialize in children’s books, books in Spanish, teaching
community bookstore with strong sales in fiction, materials, and “everything else,” including women’s
gay /lesbian-interest, spirituality and children’s titles and lesbian/ gay sections and sidelines. There will also
Frances is also working on a wide range of events be a tiny cafe area. The store's temporary mailing
including author readings, storytelling, writing address and phone number are PO Box 367041, San
groups, book groups and more. There is one used Juan, Puerto Rico 00936-7041; 809-781-1797.
bookstore in town and a B&N 40 minutes away, which STE
has caused Frances to start discounting bestsellers to
keep local business. River Reader, 16355 Main Street, N Z
Guerneville CA 95446; 707-869-2240.
Store Changes
Erin Lipkind and David Berry are trying to estab- The women at Ruby Slippers were receiving
lish Mary Jane's, a women-oriented, feminist, lesbian threats of bodily harm, so the police advised that they
and goddess-oriented alternative store in Montana change their phone numbers and put a tap on their
that will carry used clothing, new and used books, phones. Their new phone numbers are: 516-421-3550,
jewelry and consignment goods. They have been sell- fax 516-431-1816.
ing at the Farmer’s Market, and are looking for space
and funding. For now you can reach them at 1512 After 21 years serving the Central Ohio area,
Phillips Street, Missoula MT 59802; 406-542-2733. Fan the Flames Bookstore in Columbus has changed
its name to Women’s Words: Gifts, Books and Gath-
Joanne Weiss at The Hermitage Bookshop in Den- erings to describe its changing image. Last winter
ver, a general store with a small women’s section of Judith Murphy-Smits was hired as the new manager,
out of print and collectibles, put together a Women’s in the spring the store's board conducted focus
Studies catalog of these titles. For a copy, contact: The groups for customer feedback and suggestions, and
Hermitage Bookshop, 290 Fillmore Street, Denver CO just recently the store received a new coat of paint.
80206; 303-388-6811. Women’s Words also has 17 new volunteers who
will assist with all aspects of the store's operations.
Æ W An. exciting calendar of events is set for this fall,
including book discussions, discussion groups,
N
workshops, and author appearances and readings.
Two not-so-new African American bookstores Women’s Words, 3387 North High Street, Columbus
owned by Eric Crosby are African American Book- OH 43202; 614-447-0565.
source & Music, a small, cozy neighborhood store in the
Village Shopping Center in Gary, Indiana, and Black Heartland Books has changed hands and moved
Expressions, which is right across the way from Chicago from Vermont to Winthrop, Washington, a rural com-
in Evergreen Park, Illinois. Both stores carry Black pub- munity in north central Washington. The previous
lications, art, music, cards and other items. Janna owners, Linda Weiss and Joyce McKeeman, sold their
Washington manages day-to-day operations at the six- retail mail order book business specializing in lesbian
year-old African American Booksource and Kimberly literature, to new owners, Barb Dubee and Sunny
Montgomery manages the three-year-old Black Expres- Mally. Barb and Sunny will continue to run Heartland
sions. African American Booksource & Music, Village stressing good reading, personal service and timely
Shopping Center, 3500 Village Court, Gary IN 46408; delivery, while raising horses (two colts this spring),
219-981-2133. Black Expressions, 9500 Southwestern caring for their other pets and working on their log
Avenue, Evergreen Park IL 60805; 708-424-4338. home. They are hoping to be up on the Web in the near
future. Heartland Books, PO Box 609, Winthrop WA
Gloria Soto and Cesar H. Soto Cintrón are opening 98862; 509-996-2291, 800-535-3799, e-mail (heart-
a general bookstore by the end of November in San lan@methow.com).
51 November /December 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Mother Kali’s in Eugene, Oregon, has a new area day operations of the store. She says they plan on
code: 541. “beefing up the stock in all areas, particularly back
stock, videos and CDs.” Lobo, 3206 A Guadalupe,
Bad Habits (Norfolk, Virginia) has changed its Austin TX 78705; 512-454-5406. Lobo, 3939 South
name to Two of a Kind, 6123 Sewells Point Road, Montrose Boulevard, Houston TX 77006; 713-522-
Norfolk VA 23513; 715-857-0223. 5156. Oscar Wilde continues on at the historic 15
Christopher Street, New York NY 10014 address;
Sappho’s Garden in New Hope, Pennsylvania, 212-255-8097, fax 212-255-8195.
moved to 78 Ney Alley Towpath, 18938. Their phone
remains 215-862-1326.
Hassled by the new Borders in town, Stepping
Stones (Palo Alto) has increased their stock of main- Stores Close
stream bestsellers and gift books by women to stay Gifts of Athena (Cleveland) closed its doors at
competitive. The number at the store is 415-853-9685. 6 p.m. on September 14th. The store was full of
mourners /well-wishers all day. Following the clos-
Back to the Source in Rockford, Illinois, changed ing the staff and community held a ritual for about
their name to The Source, because that’s what every- 50 friends of the store to aid in letting go and moving
one was calling it. We're glad to see The Source alive on. Tara Ayres described it as “beautiful, moving
and well after going through a rough period of harass- and sad.” Sue Bennett described it as being a little
ment. At one point an extreme rightist threatened to like attending one’s own funeral and getting to hear
set himself on fire in front of the store. Thankfully that your own eulogies, as women talked about what the
didn’t occur and all those at The Source haven’t seen store and Sue’s years there had meant to them. Tara
the man since the threat was made. Address and writes, “There was one eerie moment — there had
phone remain the same. been a leak in the ceiling of the store for the entire
six years it’s been open. At exactly 6:00, just as we
Last issue we announced Wild Women books in were turning over the sign to say ‘closed’ for the
Bellingham, Washington. This issue they have a new final time, a major piece of the ceiling fell in! Despite
name: Rainbow Bridge. The two store managers and the crowd, nobody was hurt. It did rather feel like a
operators are D. Lovie and Rianne Muller. Rianne has sign, though, that it was time for the project to be
worked at Amazon and My Sisters’ Words. They are over.” The growing number of superstores in the
opening in early October and are planning on a area had been taking an ever-larger bite out of GoA’s
Halloween grand opening. Rainbow Bridge, 304 West sales for the last several years.
Champion, Bellingham WA 98225.
a This issue we also bid a sad adieu to the Gertrude
ÆA Stein Memorial Bookshop in Pittsburgh, one of the
Ei last collectively run bookstores, open only on week-
ends; and to the Purple Moon in Fredricksburg
The Oscar Wilde Book Shop has a totally new (Virginia) and Textures in San Antonio. Purple Moon
look! Larry Lingle, the owner of the gay Lobo Book- and Textures had both been for sale for some time, and
stores in Houston and Austin, Texas, recently both closed after promising arrangements had fallen
purchased The Oscar Wilde Book Shop in New York. through. San Antonio has seen a series of feminist
After Lingle took over September 1, he closed the bookstores open and close in a town that desperately
store for three weeks to gut and renovate. They wants a feminist bookstore but doesn’t seem to be
painted, put in new carpeting, cabinets and book- quite large enough to support one. Sales at all three
shelves. Oscar Wilde reopened October 3 with a stores had been compromised by sales lost to the
grand reopening on the sixth attended by several ever-expanding chains. Don’t hold your breath, but
hundred people. Kim Brinster manages the day-to- don’t be surprised, either, if new stores or reorganiza-
November /December 1996 52
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
tions of the Purple Moon and Textures dreams appear Distributors Close
in Fredricksburg or San Antonio. Atrium Publishers Group closed operations due
in part to excessive returns.
People
Carole London, longtime staffer at the Book Electronic News
Garden and ardent FBN proofreader, is launching a Sisterhood has a new Web site: (www.sister-
new journal, EarthWalk, dedicated to “inspiring a hood.com).
deeper respect for the planet.” Booksellers who would
like a free preview copy (or writers who'd like con- Herstory Bookstore now has an e-mail address:
tributors’ guidelines) should write to her at (herstory@netrax.net).
Earth-Centered Publishing, PO Box 200055, Denver
CO 80220; 303-322-0044, 800-245-0129, fax 303-322- Amy Goodloe has created a Web site for lesbian
5843, e-mail (earthwalk@eco-net.com). book recommendations. To view it or promote your
favorite lesbian books go to: (http://www.
Correction lesbian.org /lesbian-writers/books.htmÌl).
Donnelly /Colt’s correct zip code is 06247. The zip a”
code in their listings in the Sidelines issue was incorrect. AE N pl
Ei
Books Move, Too
Life Isn't Weighed on the Bathroom Scales by Laura Deborah Rudacille has established a Web site
Rose ($18.95, 1-5676-037-5) was originally published called “Scheherazade” for women’s stories in her
by the WRS Group, which changed its focus to more attempt to address the “nowhere to publish”
traditional medical books and then dropped the dilemma. She hopes to publish a print version as well.
book. Rose addresses two basic lies: “you can lose You can reach the Web site at: (http://gumby.
weight easily if you want to badly enough” and spharbor. jhu.edu/~Scheherazade).
“you can't fulfill your potential until you get thin.”
Copies are now available directly from the author at New Victoria Press has a Web site featuring their
11 Randolph Street, Eureka CA 95503; 707-445-2101, catalog and other news. Their address is (http://
fax 707-445-0321. www.opendoor.com/NewVic/). New Victoria is run-
ning a profile of a feminist bookstore in each issue
Distribution News of their catalog. The first profile features Amazon.
The Women’s Press/U.K.’s titles are now avail- New Vic introduces the series with “We are grateful
able through Trafalgar Square in the U.S. Trafalgar to these [women-owned, women-identified book-
plans to open accounts with “all the relevant U.S. stores] because they began selling our books long
wholesalers” so look for Women’s Press titles at all of before the chains had a clue about the lesbian / femi-
your favorite wholesalers. Trafalgar Square Publish- nist market and they continue to support New
ing, Howe Hill Road, North Pomfret VT 05053; Victoria and all other feminist presses, through
802-457-1911, fax 802-457-1913. knowledgeable and enthusiastic presentation of
FEE our books.” The section ends with a reminder to
NI r thea ed e br as c kt bh oa nt e “ of fem oin uris t l eb sboo iak ns t o /r e fs e mha inve is t s e cr uv le td u r ea s for the
past twenty-five years. They (and we) depend on
Publisher Address your support. We encourage you to purchase your
We announced the launching of a new German books at your local feminist bookstore (if you are
gay/lesbian publishing house, Querverlag, in our lucky enough to have one) or, of course, to order
J 25u ,l y 1/ 0A 8u 2g 3u s Bt e ri ls is nu ,e . G T erh meir an yad ; d 0r 1e 1ss - 4 9is -: 3 0 A -7k -e 8z 7i 0e -n 2s 3t 4r 0a ,sse d mir ebe anct sl y to h f er o owm o r lN kde w — V sai nct do t r tia h.” eo T fuh rtis u r ek ei n —d sto of .fs eu mpp ino r ist tO
e-mail (querverlag@aol.com).
53 November /December 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Compiled by Jenn Tust contest. The $500 prize will be divided into fiction
and nonfiction categories ($250 for each winner).
Sandra Langer is seeking painting and photogra- Works should take up a topic of discourse found in
phy slides and videos for an art show titled Same the work of Lorde or seek to illustrate a condition,
Gender Family Values. The theme is “the time has come idea or ideal inherent in her fiction or prose. Length:
to say that gays/lesbians want many of the same things 500-3,000 words. Deadline: December 31. Winner
everyone else does — to say we are fine the way we are announced on Lorde’s birthday, February 18.
and to be in people's faces about homoprejudice by Include SASE for manuscript return and an index
putting our families and values out there.” Sandra L. card with the name of piece, the writer's name,
LangerV, 111 East A14th Street S # 229,S New York NY 10003. address and phone number. Fee: $20. Author ’s name
should not appear on the manuscript. WIM, 1409
The Alameda, San Jose CA 95126; 408-279-6626,
e-mail (sb0270@Mercury.FDHA.edu).
A new monthly zine for queer (lesbian, bisexual)
Jewish women is seeking articles, herstory, interviews, Lavendar Life, a bimonthly nationwide lesbian
stories, poems, photos and artwork about what it magazine is having a writing contest to celebrate the
means to be a Queer Jewish Woman. Length: 6,000 beginning of their sixth year in January. Deadline:
words maximum. Deadlines: November 1 for the December 31. Winners announced in their January 15,
December issue; December 1 for the January issue. 1997, Anniversary Issue. All entrants who are published
Send to: Staci Schoenfeld, Editor, 1440 Kansas, San will receive a complimentary issue. All writers will
Francisco CA 94107, e-mail (staci@zoom.com). retain final rights to their short stories and/or poetry.
Include SASE. Short story prizes are $100, $50, $25,
Poems sought for the T. Nelson Gilbert Poetry poetry prizes are $50 and $25. Send to: Lavendar Life,
Prize (formerly the Woman In The Moon Poetry Attn: P amela T K. Fite, I PO BAox 898, BiSnghamton NY 13902.
Prize) between January 1 and April 31. Fee: $8.
Length: 100 lines maximum on any subject. Contest
recognizes and rewards excellence in poetry compo-
sition, significance in theme, originality of thought, How do you successfully raise teen-age daugh-
lyric and image and value to the world community ters in today’s society? Sibyl Publications is seeking
as a symbol for the ideals of humanity. Prizes: $100, nonfiction book-length manuscripts of stories, advice,
$75, $50, $25 and invitation to submit full-length challenges, experiences, what to do and what not to
manuscript. Winner announced in June. WIM, 1409 do — how to cope so that both thrive? This is more
The Alameda, San Jose CA 95126; 408-279-6626, than stories about mothers and daughters; it is to be
e-mail (sb0270@Mercury.FDHA.edu). an honest, down-to-earth guide-book to mothers
dealing with the turbulent teen-age years. Send SASE
fictio nW o fm ora n t hI en i r T h Ae u d M reo o Ln o r i ds e s Mee ek min og r i af li c Pti ro on s e a n Pd r iz n eon- aBnd i vquedry. , le ttPeros rort lpraonposdals tOo: R600 S9.E.7 P2o0we2ll. O
November /December 1996 54
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
BESFSELLERS
Compiled by Jenn Tust 4. How Stella Got Her Groove Back, Terry
McMillan
Sisterspace & Books 5. Mama's Girl, Veronica Chambers
Washington DC 6. Gibbon’s Decline & Fall, Sheri Tepper
September Bestsellers 7. LoverBoys, Ana Castillo
, 8. Her Stories: African American Folk Tales,
1. Tumbling, Dianne McKinney-Whetson, William Virginia Hamilton
Morrow, $24 cl, fiction 9. Arc of Love, C. Cass
2. The Artist's Way: A Spiritual Path to Higher 10. Let's Face the Music & Die, Sandra
Creativity, Julia Cameron, $13.95 pb, spiritual Scoppettone
3. One More River to Cross: Black & Gay
in America, Keith Boykin, Doubleday, $23.95 cl, FICTION PAPER
nonfiction 1. Parable of the Sower, Octavia Butler
4. Push, Sapphire, Knopf, $20 cl, fiction 2. Mean Spirit, Linda Hogan
5. Black Sun Signs: An African American Guide to 3. Memory Mambo, Achy Obejas
the Zodiac, Thelma Balfour, Simon & Schuster, 4. Yes I Said, Yes I Will, Judith McDaniel
$11 pb, astrological 5. Serpents Gift, Helen Lee
6. So Good: An African American Love Story, 6. Face of an Angel, Denise Chavez
Vernice Berry, Dutton, $21.95 cl, fiction 7. Into the Forest, Jean Hegland
7. About My Sister’s Business: The Black 8. Grass Widow, Nanci Little
Woman's Road Map to Successful 9. Heart on Fire, Diane Simmonds
Entrepreneurship, Fran Harris, Simon & 10. We Came All the Way From Cuba So You
Schuster, $12 pb, finance Could Dress Like This?, Achy Obejas
8. Where Evil Sleeps, Valerie Wilson-Wesley,
Putnam, $21.95 ci, fiction NONFICTION CLOTH
9. The Serpent's Gift, Helen Elaine Lee, Atheneum, 1. Beyond the Flower, Judy Chicago
$21 cl, fiction 2. Women’s Wheel of Life, Elizabeth Davis
10. The Higher Education Money Book for Women 3. Gender Shock, Phyllis Burke
& Minorities, Doris Burce-Young, William C. 4. Run Jane Run, Jane Wells
Young, $25 pb, finance 5. Book of the Goddesses, K. Waldherr
6. Lesbianism Made Easy, Helen Eisenbach
Full Circle 7. Transgender Warriors, Leslie Feinberg
Albuquerque NM 8. Deep Water Passage, Ann Linnae
September Bestsellers 9. Dancing in the Flames, Marion Woodman
10. Desert Quartet, Terry Tempest Williams
FICTION CLOTH
1. Mother Tongue, Demetria Martinez NONFICTION PAPER
2. Liberty Square, Kathryn Forrest 1. Reviving Ophelia, Mary Pipher
3. Push, Sapphire 2. Gossips, Gorgons & Crones, Jane Caputi
Volume 19 Number 4 55 November /December 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms7. Love’s Harvest
8. Paperback Romance
9. Second Chance
Red Azalea, Anchee Min 10. Triple Exposure
N Ð 9I LESBIAN/GAY
Shelly Roberts
Women’s Traveller, Damron . Our Tribe
Ferrari for Women, Mary Anne Ferrari . Roberts’ Rules of Lesbian Living
. Unnatural Dykes to Watch Out For
. Great Gay & Lesbian Places to Live
. Nothing But the Girl
. Serving in Silence
. k.d. lang: An Illustrated Biography
. Accidental Activist
. And Say Hi to Joyce
H O vw o . N oN Before Stonewall
CALENDARS
1. 97 Men Are From Mars
2. '97 Dykes to Watch Out For
3. 97 Audubon Birds
4. "97 Gardening
5. 97 Now Go Take On The Day
6. "97 We’'Moon
7. 97 When I Am an Old Woman I Shall
Wear Purple
ANTHOLOGIES
1. When I Am an Old Woman I Shall
Wear Purple
2. I Am Becoming the Woman I've
Always Wanted
3. Tasting Life Twice
4. Women on Women 3
MYSTERIES
1. Baby, It’s Cold
2. Crazy for Loving
3. I Left My Heart
4. Liberty Square
5. Someone to Watch
GIFT BOOKS
1. Menopaws
2. Book of Questions
3. 14,000 Things To Be Happy About
4. American Women Authors Card Game
5. Famous Women Card Game o
56 Volume 19 Number 4
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsBOOks in Canada:
By Suzanne Buffam Magazine Awards and current editor of the inter-
Women in Print/ Vancouver BC national arts magazine, Border Crossings, Walsh is a
writer worthy of attention. C$16.96 pb, 0-88984-184-5,
. As with the movies and the TV networks, Fall Porcupine’s Quill. Order through General Distribu-
seems to be the season publishers pick to put their best tion Services.
feet forward. Whether this is a back-to-school thing, a The stories in Rachel Wyatt's collection The Day
symptom of band-wagon mentality, or merely an Marlene Dietrich Died are all linked through an
attempt at consolation for the end of summer, I can'tsay, exploration of this powerful cultural icon’s complex
but this Fall is no exception: so many good books for me and enduring appeal. Wyatt is a subtle, ironic, witty
to choose from, so hard to narrow it down. Here's a writer whose stories are funny and poignant, erotic
sample of the cream of the small press crop this Fall: and tremendously moving. Why she is not better
known as a writer of fiction, beyond her rep as a
playwright, is a mystery. This kind of writing will
ta send shivers of emotion down the length of your
spine, without neglecting to engage the intellect. No
Starting with Fiction: small praise, I know. C$14.95 pb, 0-88982-161-5,
Broken Windows is Patricia Nolan's first collec- Oolichan Books. Order through LPC/InBook.
tion of short stories and is sure to put her name on the
literary map. These are haunting and unsettling Bae
stories that explore the lives of people who are strug-
gling with the destructive potential of their pasts.
Despite their worlds of deceit, brutality and lunacy, The Rose Garden by Kristjana Gunnars is a truly
these are not tragic stories about victims; instead, unusual novel, combining the genres of fiction, mem-
Nolan embraces her characters’ fierce survivalist oir, personal essay and theoretical speculation — a
impulses, revealing the restorative effects of memory, narrative strategy for which she has become well-
fantasy and dreams. Graceful and witty and often known and respected in Canadian literary circles.
painfully comic, her prose is sharp and impeccably Focussing on the story of a woman whose life has
crafted. U.S.$14.95 pb, 1-896095-20-8, Polestar. Avail- become a curious amalgam of “reality” and fiction,
able in the U.S. from Orca, PO Box 468, Custer WA Gunnars cuts the central issues of language and our
98240; 800-210-5277. place in culture, provoking the essential question of
Another startling first collection of fiction is what meaning literature actually has in our lives.
Meeka Walsh's The Garden of Earthly Intimacies. C$14.95 pb, 0-88995-150-0, Red Deer College Press.
These lyrical and precise stories achieve an intensity Order through Raincoast; in Canada call 800-663-
that touches on the rhapsodic, as Walsh writes in a 5714. Available in the U.S. from Orca Books, PO Box
celebratory way about her own body and the quiet, 468, Custer WA 98240; 800-210-5277.
but uncompromisingly passionate lives of her female Margaret Sweatman’s second novel, Sam and
narrators. Two-time gold medalist of the National Angie is a chilling and exquisitely written account of
57 November /December 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
the ugly politics of a relationship in decline. Through Are you ready to answer the questions your
a series of flirtations, betrayals, jealousies and suspi- children will ask? We can all be thrown off from time
cions, Sam and Angie’s love collapses into to time. All of us, that is, except Meg Hickling, RN,
surveillance while their upper-class world acquires Canada’s best sex educator, aka “the Little Sex
holes, both real and imaginary, and their sexual rela- Lady,” whose utterly frank and straightforward
tionship becomes a shocking act of violence. Her prose approach to educating both children and parents
is clean and elegant while her plot blurs the line about all aspects of sexual health, orientation, prac-
between paranoia and reality, laying bare the cold and tice and discussion makes her book Speaking of Sex
calculating passions beneath the glassy surface of her one of the most invaluable books any parent can buy.
characters’ lives. C$16.95 pb, 0-88801-208-X, Turn- It’s very funny, too. U.S.$14.50 pb, 1-55145-094-1.
stone Press. Order through LPC/InBook. Northstone Publishing, 1980 Cooper Road #330,
The Turning by Pauline Holdstock is another Kelowna BC VIY 9G8, Canada; 604-766-1201. Avail-
novel out this Fall by a wrongly under-exposed writer able in the U.S. from LPC /InBook.
who has written three very accomplished previous
books. This novel takes place in France in 1870—71,
against the backdrop of the Franco-Prussian War. It
centres on a ruinous triangle of emotion between a
mother, her daughter and the stranger who enters And last but never least, except maybe in page
their lives, forcing an examination of fidelity in all its count, a look at some poetry:
aspects — marital, sexual, spiritual and political. C$16 ...If you can call it that when referring to perform-
pb, 0-921586-531, NewStar Books. Order through ance and literary whirlwind Adeena Karasick’s third
General. collection, Genrecide, in which the interlingual,
intralingual and intersemiotic play on words and
whole discourses are always intended. Palimpsesting
Hitler and Derrida with The Violent Femmes, The
Rocky Horror Picture Show and Gary Larson cartoons,
Now, a look at some Non-Fiction titles: this book explores the intersection of multiple cul-
Bringing it Home: Women Talk About Femi- tures, codes, idioms and constructs that impact on the
nism in Their Lives edited by Brenda Lea Brown is a social construction of female identity. While perhaps
diverse and eloquent collection of essays by Canadian not the most “accessible” book of poetry available this
women, from a wide range of fields and perspectives, Fall, it is certainly a feast for readers who appreciate
on the role of feminism in their lives. Full of passion “the dance of the intellect,” from one of the most
and verve, this is a populist snapshot of women in exciting and globe-trotting performance poets of the
Canada today who share a common concern: that all decade. C$14.95 pb, 0-88922-370-X, Talonbooks. Or-
women, beyond the politics and the rhetoric, be able der through General.
to lead independent, dignified lives. C$19.95 pb, Toward a Catalogue of Falling is Meira Cook's
1-55152-034-6, Arsenal Pulp Press. Available in the second full-length book of poetry and isa true delight,
U.S. in Spring 1997 from LPC/InBook. transforming language itself into a character along-
Chris Czajkowski’s Diary of a Wilderness side circus performers, Venetian tour guides, clumsy
Dweller is a truly inspirational account of her epic sons and migrating geese. Verging on the surreal, her
journey to build a home in the wilderness — 20 miles poems are dramatic rushes of words that are consis-
on foot from the nearest road. What this woman has tently vibrant and intense, whether she is rewriting
accomplished, not only with a chainsaw and an axe, Hans Christian Andersen’s “The Little Mermaid” or
but with a pen, paper and watercolour paints (includ- offering advice for catching crows. C$12.95 pb,
ing two previous books) is a testament to the latent 0-919626-88-2, Brick Books. Order through General.
capabilities in us all. C$15.95 pb, 1-55143-059-2. Avail- General Distribution Services, 30 Lesmill Road,
able in the U.S. from Orca Books, PO Box 468, Custer Don Mills ONT M3B 2T6, Canada; 800-387-0172,
WA 98240; 800-210-5277. 416-445-3333. 40% for 10. In the U.S; 800-805-1083. O
November /December 1996 58
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
AUDIO e VIDEO e CD-ROM
ELECTRONIC BOOKS
By Dorothy Holland includes biographies and bibliographies for all of the
authors. What a great way to use this medium. $39.95
Books CD Windows, 1-559407-13-1, Voyager.
I have a favorite Internet book that you just have Invisible Universe, A Tour of the Galaxies:
to get: The Internet for Women: Travel & Culture by Science, Sights, and Sounds by Dr. Fiorella Terenzi
Rye Senjen and Jane Guthrey. It is a step-by-step guide covers a subject not generally considered “feminist,”
to the Internet, the do's and don'ts, the how-to's of but I believe we should consider this title because of
e-mail, electronic conferencing, bulletin boards, news the author and her approach to the material. Terenzi
groups, useful software and the possibilities of the is a cross between Carl Sagan and Madonna and
World Wide Web. Catch more info on this title at manages to pull it off quite well! It’s a pleasure to have
(http:/ /WWw.peg.apc.org/ ~spinifex). I'm loving this a female voice and mind guiding you through an
book. Every time I open it, I find more reasons to extol intense science experience. $39.95 CD Win&Mac,
its virtues! For example, I just discovered a flip anima- 1-55940679-8, Voyager.
tion of a woman surfer! I use and refer to The Internet
for Women constantly as I teach women about on-line
communication and the Internet. $16.95 pb, 0-875559-
52-3, Spinifex Press.
Another useful Internet book is Surfer Grrrls: _ Sacred and Secular: The Aerial Photography of
Look Ethel! An Internet Guide for Us! by Laurel Marilyn Bridges by Marilyn Bridges. Bridges is one
Gilvert and Crystal Kile. My favorite sections are of the few women aerial photographers in the world.
“Surfergrrrl Scout Merit Badges,” the “CyborGrrr Flying at an altitude of 300 feet to maintain her “inti-
Oath” and the interviews with several of the macy with the landscape,” Bridges explores the
legendary grrrls on the net. $15 pb, 1-878067-79-6, power and beauty of ceremonial spaces created by
Seal Press. ancient peoples. She also explores “modern” ceremo-
nial spaces. This CD includes one hundred photos
CD-ROM with detailed close-ups, maps of the sites, background
Voyager New Media has a group of CDs out that information about each culture and commentary from
are aimed at us this season. They are advertising Bridges. This is another title that is not specifically
Writing Women’s Lives in our Fall Catalog, and are “feminist,” but of great interest to many women in our
promoting all of the CDs in mailings to feminist book- bookstores, particularly those of us interested in
sellers. I'm anxious to find out if we can actually move ancient spirituality. Advertised in the Feminist Book-
this product in our stores. Writing Women’s Lives: store Network's Fall Catalog. $39.95 CD Win&Mac,
Interviews with Eight Accomplished Writers by 1-55940703-4, Voyager.
Melissa Sanders-Self starts with the entire documentary Return to Love: Bringing Spirituality Into Daily
from PBS, adds samples of each author's work (Amy Life, An Interactive Workshop with Marianne
Tan, Harriet Doerr, Gloria Steinem, Isabel Allende, June Williamson. Do we have customers who are both
Jordan, Mona Simpson, Bharati Mukherjee) and computer grrrls and Williamson devotees? If so, this is
59 November /December 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
New Media, continued.
KIDS L1, the perfect answer. Return to Love is a huge resource
— video, audio and text from Williamson — to assist
the user in creating daily journals and exploring the
miraculous. A very unusual use of the medium. $49.95
CD Win&Mac, 0-06-019514-2, HarperCollins.
By Linda Bubon
Women & Children First/Chicago Video
Cynara: Poetry in Motion by Nicole Conn, pro-
Ten of the Best for Ages 2-4 duced by Wolfe Video, is short and very sweet.
° C a E 0nh 6h 7di lc e 1 k r 6J ta 7 ,o 9 h 4 C S 9nh i X mi c ;A k o r na $ c 4 h .B 9&ao 5 mo S m b bca dh u ,uB l t s o , t - o e 8 m r 7il 8l 9u Jb 3s ut Xy vr .ea t nB e ii d ll el . bM $ya 1 r 4 Lt .0i on 0i s cl, N h a r eoi nc t co t tlol e ee s s d’ t es ! l s Yp e er os c ue b ov i na i d hnou . a vs v F e i ut d li te lt oo l e C , si in t rC a c n l laa e d i ’s r le o i ncn o o g pf ly i nt t i e mh i .s e e C , f yM oa nro n aeo d rvn a e, r t ihw si b sa e s di n eo ft gn ih e ne i tr eu lyns
° The Big Red Barn by Margaret Wise Brown, a I' m s w se ue rp ei n g iť ' ll le s bb eia n w or ro tm h a n yc oe u, r q u pi it ce k i ner go t ii tc uan p.d $a 2r 9t .s 9y 5. , 39
illustrated by Felicia Bond, HarperCollins minutes. Available at Wolfe and Naiad.
Publishers. $14.95 cl, 0060207485; $6.95 bd,
0694006246. The Question of Equality, produced by David
° If You Give a Mouse a Cookie written and Meieran for Testing the Limits, weaves together
never-before-seen archival footage and eye-opening
i Pl ulu bs lt isr hat ee rd s. b $y 13 .L 95au r ca l , N 0u 0m 60e 2r 4o 5f 8f 6, 7 .HarperCollins firsthand accounts of the lesbian and gay movement's
° M B 06ea 7md 0e e 4l li 4mn 5e 8a 0n 0w s ;, r i $Pt 4t e .e n 9n g 9 u a i pnn b d , U i 0Sl A 1lu 4.s 0 t 5$r 01a 15t 9.e 9 8d 9 3 . b cy l, Ludwig s o k 1t f 9er f 6yu e 9 g r tg s Sh l te ed o m e nf f eeo i wsnr a it o lc li f vi v e ri t il h o p teor s ri g mt th r ooat vys . e ta m hl sI e n e n o ltf ef so s—u h r i ws t f eh o r lro lo -u i mc kr n- l m oo t wn ho ng m e e e be n xp ut pi tss l o o d a nsn ie ovs d e, l ei st s
° M illo ur se t r aM teo dr e b M y o r Ve e r S aa id B . t Whe i l liB aa mby s, w Wr ii lt lt iae mn a Mn od rrow. v Ai dsi vo en ra tr isy e d e f if no r tt hs e o f F e mto id na iy st’s B l oe osb ki sa tn o r ea n d N e tg way o r ky ’so u t Fh a. ll
° D$1 r6 aw.0 0 M c el , a0 6 S8 t8 a0 r9 1 w73 r3 it; t e$ n4 .9 a5 n dp b i, l l u- s1 t4 r7 a3 t6 e4 d. by Eric C Ba ot oa klo s g . & $ 5 V9 i. d9 e5 o . boxed 4-video set, 240 minutes, KQED
Carle, The Putnam Publishing Group. $16.95
cl, 0399218777.
° The Runaway Bunny written and illustrated
by Margaret Wise Brown, HarperCollins
Publishers. $13.95 cl, 0060207655; $4.95 pb, Women Speak Up: A Video Collection of
-4430189; $ 6.95 bd, -1074292. Women’s Voices from Around the World, produced by
° We're Going on a Bear Hunt written by Esther Farnsworth and Linda Leehman, is a colorful
SM imich onae l & R o Ss ce hn u, s t eil rl u s Jt ura vt ee nd i l eb . y $ 1H 6.e 0l 0en c lO ,xenbury, c evol el nag tse ao nf d w mor uk sis ch o fp rs, o m in t te hr ev i e Fw ous r ta hn d I ns tp eo rn nt aa tn ioe nou als
0689504764; $5.95 bd, -716532. Women’s Forum that took place in Beijing and Huairou,
° Where the Wild Things Are written and China last year. Women Speak Up captures the serious
i P -l 4ul 4u b 3s lt 1isr 7ha 8t e 9e r .d s. b $y 15 .M 00a u cr li ,c e 0 0S 6e 0n 2d 5a 4k 9, 2 0H ; a r $p 4.e 9r 5C o pll bin ,s p wr oe mdo em n i n wa on rt k it nh ge m toes g e to hf e rt h fe o rF o pr eu am ce a an nd d g juiv se ts ic ea . vision of
Includes study guide and resource booklet. Advertised
° The Very Hungry Caterpillar written and illus- in the Feminist Bookstore Network’s Fall Catalog.
trated by Eric Carle, The Putnam Publishing $19.99 video, 58 minutes, Multicultural Media.
Group. $18.95 cl, 0399208534; $8.95 bd, -226907. See ya on the Web!
Note: bd indicates board book. Dorothy Holland is Amazon Support for feminist
Kids’ Lit will return in full form in the next issue. O bookstores and other woman-owned businesses. O
November /December 1996 60
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
By Julie Mitchell by Linda Nagata; for Best Novella, Remake ($5.99
Sisterhood Bookstore/Los Angeles pb, 0-553-57441-8, Spectra) by Connie Willis, author
of the Hugo and Nebula Award-winning Doomsday
Since there are so many books to present, espe- Book ($5.99 pb, 0-553-56273-8, Spectra); for Best
cially during this ever-abundant holiday publishing Short Story, “The Lincoln Train” (F&SF 4/95) by
season, I will make my introductory remarks brief. Maureen F. McHugh (who also won the Hugo in the
I'm just back from a spectacular two-week trip to the same category), author of the Lambda and Tiptree
Inside Passage and Interior of Alaska. From glaciers Award-winning China Mountain Zhang ($3.99 pb,
to braided rivers to kettle ponds, from orca pods to 0-8125-0892-0, Tor); for Best Collection, Four Ways
paired eagles to mama bears and their cubs, from to Forgiveness ($5.99 pb, 0-06-105401-1, Harper-
kayaks to bikes to park buses, and from solitude to Prism) by the estimable Ursula K. Le Guin.
brief connections with other travellers to a women’s
camping group, I made my awed way through this
pristine, vast, and wild land. Though I didn’t have
time for much reading amidst all that grandeur, I did
manage to get through a few books en route, which The Horror Writers Association's Stoker Awards
I must recommend. The Edgar Award-winning Kate (to women) went to Joyce Carol Oates for her short
Shugak mystery series (Berkley) by sf writer Dana novel Zombie ($10.95 tp, 0-452-2750-0, Plume/
Stabenow and the Athabascan tale told by Velma Penguin) and Lucy Taylor for her first novel The
Wallis in Two Old Women (Harper) are simply not to Safety of Unknown Cities (details unavailable).
be missed. Due to the numerous sf/f titles being released at
In the worlds of sf /f literature, a number of 1996 this time, I’ve decided to organize this issue's column
awards have been delivered in these past few into a shorter section and a longer section. First, a brief
months. The James Tiptree, Jr. Award, presented at mention of some Summer/Fall releases I missed in the
WisCon (the sole feminist-oriented sf convention), is previous column listed according to genre, then the
“an annual literary prize for science fiction or fan- usual, more lengthy, detailed entry by publisher for
tasy that explores and expands the roles of women Fall/Winter releases.
and men...for work by both women and men.” This In the category of fantasy... Marion Zimmer
year’s award is shared by Elizabeth Hand for the Bradley and Holly Lisle’s Glenraven ($23 cl, 0-671-
Gothic, modern f Waking the Moon ($5.99 pb, 0-06- 87738-0, Baen) is the contemporary story of two
105443-7, HarperPrism) and Theodore Roszak for American women college friends who take a trip to
Memoirs of Elizabeth Frankenstein ($5.99 pb, a magical land (with a cover that may make feminist
0-553-57637-2, Bantam). bookstores think twice about carrying it: an uncon-
Locus, “The Newspaper of the Science Fiction scious woman collapsed in the arms of a he-man
Field,” delivered a number of Locus Awards to type). Wolf-Woman ($3.99 pb, 0-440-21969-8, Laurel
women writers at Westercon: for Best First Novel, Leaf /Dell) is Sherryl Jordan's young adult novel
The Bohr Maker ($4.99 pb, 0-553-56925-2, Spectra) about a child raised by wolves in prehistoric times.
61 November /December 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Melanie Rawn, Jennifer Roberson, and Kate Elliot Stone Garden ($4.99 pb, 0-345-38958-1, Del Rey /Ran-
team up in The Golden Key ($24.95 cl, 0-88677-691-0, dom) fame, has her first short-story collection in
Daw), “an epic multigenerational saga” of the Dukes Synthesis and Other Virtual Realities. ($21.95 dl,
of the Tira Virte family and the male artist/magi- 0-87054-170-6, Arkham House. This independent
cians and female First Mistresses of the Grijalva publisher specializing in sf and horror can be reached
family, with a male protagonist unifying the stories, at 608-643-4500.) True Game ($15 tp, 0-441-00331-1,
pictured on the cover. Martha Moody ($10.95 tp, Ace), one of Sheri S. Tepper’s early trilogies, is now
1-883523-07-9, Spinster’s Ink) is a lesbian, “fantasti- back in print in one volume. Featuring a female,
cal western” by Susan Stinson, author of the lyrical lycanthrope detective named Ty, Denise Vitola’s
Fat Girl Dances with Rocks. Quantum Moon ($5.99 pb, 0-441-00357-5, Ace) looks
like a murder mystery /political thriller thrown full
force into the mid-21st century.
And, last, in the arena of mixed gender sf/f
anthologies.... Laura Anne Gilman and Keith R. A.
In the science fiction realms.... Raphael Carter ’s DeCandido co-edited Otherwere: Stories of Trans-
The Fortunate Fall ($21.95 c], 0-312-86034-X, Tor) was formation ($5.99 pb, 0-441-00363-X, Ace), a
hailed by Publishers Weekly as a “highly literate, grim collection of “stories of lycanthropy — with a twist”
and gripping example of latter-day cyberpunk by such authors as Jody Lynn Nye, Esther M. Fries-
[which] counts as one of the most promising SF debuts ner, and Josepha Sherman. Anne McCaffrey and
in recent years” and includes a lesbian romance. Hugo Elizabeth Ann Scarborough's Space Opera ($5.99
Award-winner C. J. Cherryh has two set in the same pb, 0-88677-714-3, Daw) promises “20 all-original
universe: Rider at the Gate ($5.99 pb, 0-446-60345-7, tales — symphonies of the starways by the modern-
Aspect/Warner) and Cloud’s Rider ($22 cl, 0-446- day maestros of science fiction.” Photographer Patti
51910-3, Aspect/Warner). Mary Rosenblum, of The Perret’s art-sized The Faces of Fantasy ($21.95 tp,
TOR’
November /December 1996 62
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
0-312-86216-4, Tor), with an introduction by Terri 0-441-00361-3), another evocative f novel filled with
Windling, contains black and white photos of over magic, fairies, and unusual female (and male) char-
100 f writers, including /ots of women (e.g., Lisa acters, covered by more gorgeous artwork. Again, let
Goldstein, Barbara Hambly, Madeleine L'Engle, me entice you with words: “[s]he sat quite still
Paula Volsky, Patricia C. Wrede — you get the behind the cauldron until voices finally ceased.
picture!). Tarot Tales: Sixteen Spellbinding Stories Chairs spoke to stone; shod feet to stone and stairs.
Inspired by the Tarot ($5.99 pb, 0-441-00352-4, Ace), The door opened; night stood a moment at the door-
edited by Rachel Pollack and Caitlin Matthews, way, dark and crowned with stars.”
includes stories by both editors as well as the likes Nichelle Nicols — beloved Uhura on the original
of Gwyneth Jones, Cherry Gilchrist, and Storm Star Trek, giver of the first interracial television kiss,
Constantine. The Armless Maiden and Other Tales and now novelist — has co-written a work of sf with
for Childhood’s Survivors ($14.95 tp, 0-312-86221-0, Trek author Margaret Wander Bonanno. Saturn’s
Tor), edited by Terri Windling, contains original Child ($5.99 pb, 0-441-00384-2) is set in the 21st cen-
stories and essays exploring themes of childhood tury, when Earth and Fazi laws prohibit mixed-race
betrayal, abuse, and oppression by “many of fan- offspring. Saturna, half-Human and half-Fazian, is
tasy’s finest writers” (hopefully including some gifted with “stunning powers” and burdened with
female ones!). the possibility of causing an interplanetary war.
Publishers Weekly reviewed the novel favorably, hope-
ACE (BERKLEY) fully adding another talented African American
This statement is all I found for Wilhelmina female voice to the annals of sf.
Baird’s latest sf offering, Chaos Come Again ($12 tp,
0-441-00369-9): “[e]nter into a future where symbiotes
have delivered humankind to the next phase of tele-
p caa uth tii oc n e v iso l u et ssio en n. t i aA l, p al na dce c w hah oe sr e i s r e ta hl eit y n oi rs m f .”l e x Si ob ule n, ds ATHENEUM (SIMON & SCHUSTER)
tumultuous! Young adult f novelist Tamora Pierce finishes the
On ice-covered Nevya, the formally taught Can- Wild Magic series with book number four, Realms of
trixes have traditionally sung light, warmth, and the Gods ($17 cl, 0-689-31990-8). Daine, an animal-
healing into being. Professional opera singer Louise speaker, and her mentor Numair are transported to
Marley has returned to Nevya in a sequel to Sing the the Divine Realms during a battle between their
Light ($5.50 pb, 0-441-00272-2). In Sing the Warmth besieged country and the immortals. There, Daine
($5.99 pb, 0-441-00386-9), the Cantrix Sira attempts encounters her dead mother, divine father, the gods,
to save the planet by challenging convention and and various other interesting inhabitants.
teaching anyone with the gift to sing, thus marking AVONOVA
her a traitor.
World Fantasy Award-winner Patricia A. Three of f’s grande dames unite forces in Tiger
McKillip has created a wonderful, haunting, lush Burning Bright ($6.50 pb, 0-380-77512-3). Marion
fable of humans and feys in Winter Rose ($19.95 cl, Zimmer Bradley, Andre Norton, and Mercedes
0-441-00334-6). Now that I've read it, I can't help but Lackey tell the tale of three determined and powerful
mention this small-sized hardback — with stunning women. Of their land's ruling house, these three vol-
cover art and a title that could make this a great untarily step down from their positions to save the
holiday gift item — a second time. McKillip’s citizenry, and then take on alternate, hidden identities
descriptive abilities are phenomenal, unequivocally to fight against an enemy invader/emperor. If the
seducing the reader with brilliant imagery. Cobwebs Trillium saga does well in your store, this latest col-
“hung like chandeliers with prisms of dew” and laborative effort is probably a safe bet, too.
mushrooms “had no roots to tie them to one place; Nancy Springer’s newest is a contemporary f
like curiosity, they wandered everywhere.” Also by which turns the change-the-frog-into-a-prince story on
McKillip is The Book of Atrix Wolfe ($5.99 pb, its head. Fair Peril ($12 tp, 0-380-78413-0) features a
63 November /December 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
divorced, middle-aged, fat mom who does not kiss the DAW (PENGUIN)
talking frog but takes it home instead. Unfortunately, Mercedes Lackey’s Storm Rising ($5.99 pb,
both the frog and her teenaged daughter vanish into 0-88677-712-7), Book Two in The Mage Storms trilogy,
the land of Fair Peril (aka the local mall). Mom stages is available in paper simultaneously with Book Three,
a rescue attempt, discovering magic along the way. The Storm Breaking ($21.95 cl, 0-88677-713-5), in cloth.
ads for this book proclaim it “magical realism” which These two conclude the most recent installation in the
“addresses modern gender issues.” Springer also ongoing f series featuring the enchanted world of
authored Larque on the Wing ($4.99 pb, 0-380-76742-2), Valdemar and its neighboring realms.
co-winner of the Tiptree Award. The third novel in the sf adventure originating
with Turning Point ($3.99 pb, 0-88677-575-2) and
Fortune's Wheel ($5.99 pb, 0-88677-675-9) is Fire
Margins ($6.99 pb, 0-88677-718-6). Lisanne Norman’s
tale of the feline-like Sholan race and the Human race
BAEN (SIMON & SCHUSTER) evolves as the empaths from both form relationships
Lois McMaster Bujold continues her three time and mate. This new biracial species, with the com-
Hugo-Award winning saga of Miles Vorkosigan and bined powers of Sholan and Human, threatens to
Barrayar. Cetaganda ($5.99 pb, 0-671-87744-5) is the either bridge the precarious alliance between civiliza-
latest installment in the adventures of Miles, this time tions or demolish it.
“play[ing] detective in a strange, complicated, and
deceptively alien culture.” Cordelia’s Honor ($15 tp, ONYX (PENGUIN)
0-671-87749-6), previously published in parts as The Horses at the Gate ($5.99 pb, 0-451-40723-7),
Shards of Honor and Barrayar, follows Cordelia Mary Mackey’s sequel to The Year the Horses Came ($5.99
Naismith — Betan ship captain turned Barrayaran pb, 0-451-18298-7), returns to a prehistoric, matrifocal
Leadyx i—l eas, s h e a mnaneduv er s p thoroluight icocmsba.t , bietrayal, E nu or mope a d b se .i n g F e t ar ta uns rf io nrm g e d t hby e p “a ptr ei aar cc eh -a ll o, v w inar gri ”n g priestess
These days Mercedes Lackey is writing books Marrah who encounters more adventures, battles, and
almost faster than stores can order them, in numerous romance, this work will most likely appeal to readers of
series and with various co-authors. The Fire Rose Jean Auel, Sue Harrison, and Linda Shuler.
($6.99 pb, 0-671-87750-X) is a solo f work set in San
Francisco in 1905. Rosalind Hawkins, a medieval ORB (ST. MARTIN’S)
scholar, is forced to accept a mysterious governess- Three of Ursula K. Le Guin’s early, previously
ship to make ends meet when her father dies. A bond out-of-print novels are now available in one com-
grows between her and her employer, Jason Cameron, plete volume. City of Illusions, Rocannon’s World, and
despite some “terrible secret” he’s hiding. Planet of Exile are combined in Worlds of Exile and
Illusion ($14.95 tp, 0-312-86211-3), with introduc-
CIRCLET tions by Le Guin. These classic works, set in the same
There are four new erotica collections from this universe as The Left Hand of Darkness, launched her
sf/f publisher which specializes in the carnal, edited career as a novelist.
by Cecilia Tan (of course!) — Fetish Fantastic: Tales of
Power and Lust from Futuristic to Surreal ($12.95 tp, ROC (PENGUIN)
1-885865-13-9), Erotica Vampirica: Sensual Vampire Award-winning author Valerie J. Freireich, who
Stories ($11.95 tp, 1-885865-08-2), and SexMagick 1 wrote Becoming Human ($4.99 pb, 0-451-45396-4) and
($7.95 tp, 1-885865-14-7) and SexMagick 2 ($9.95 tp, Testament ($5.99 pb, 0-451-45459-6), brings us The
1-885865-09-0), “two anthologies that conjure magical Beacon ($5.99 pb, 0-451-45397-2). This interesting piece
erotic fantasies,” volume one by female writers and of sf is primarily the story of Stefan Acari, a neutral
volume two mostly male. (These first two books are Judge of the Open Court, who is linked into the Assem-
mixed gender and, more than likely, pansexual.) bly, a world-wide, powerful network aċcessible by all.
Distributed by BP, Koen. Stefan's every thought, feeling, and experience is
November /December 1996 64
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
transmitted into the system, along with his judgments, Wong, comrade in the paramilitary cadre known as the
every time he makes a dump. Beatrice Whit, an appar- Daughters of Compassion, is a dedicated enforcer of the
ently human diplomat from an alien spaceship, arrives Generation-Skipping Law. Arrested for attempted mur-
on earth but reveals little about the Travelers’ mission, der, Zhu is conscripted to search for a slave woman
which concerns Earth’s future. The two quickly become critical to the future of their society — in the past.
e En xt pa ln org il ned g i mn o rs ah li f at nin dg , e tc ho im cap l l e cx h o a icll ei sa n c anes d a tn hd e l moy ua ll tt ii fe as r. i- ST. MARTIN’S
ous inter-relationships between people, Freireich Rachel Pollack, winner of the Arthur C. Clarke
creates a character (in Stefan) who evolves, moving Award for Unquenchable Fire ($13.95 tp, 0-87951-530-9,
from a socialized, blind trust in the system to a con- Overlook) and author of Temporary Agency ($10.95 tp,
scious questioning of it. I recommend it. 0-87951-602-X, Overlook), has created a stunning,
An exciting first f novel, Anne Lesley Groell’s unforgettable lesbian novel in Godmother Night
Anvil of the Sun ($5.99 pb, 0-451-45544-4) promises ($24.95 cl, 0-312-14606-X). This modern, magical fairy
to be Book One of The Cloak and Dagger series. Nar- tale is about Laurie and Jaqe, two women who find
rated in the omniscient voice, this is the story of each other with the help of Mother Night, a short,
aristocratic Lady Vera (aka Hawk) — the lusty, inde- flamboyantly dressed old woman. Accompanied by
pendent, 39-year-old, supremely capable assassin her red-headed, leather-jacketed, motorcycle-riding
who is renowned throughout the lands as the absolute girl gang, Mother Night — who is really Death herself
best in the Guild; her niece Jen — the impulsive, wild, — appears at various stages of their lives. This surreal
promiscuous, 18-year-old, aspirant-assassin; and tale is at once haunting and riveting, fascinating and
Thibault — Jen’s level-headed, even-tempered, male horrifying. Here is nothing less than the highest qual-
childhood friend and self-appointed guardian. When ity f writing, writing which thoroughly entrances with
Vera’s mission goes awry, the eager Jen and reluctant its thoughtful, concentrated style, its peculiar story
Thibault go on a wild adventure to save her, getting in line and oddly sympathetic characters, and its ability
way over their heads. This debut is entertaining, well- to turn the protagonists inside out...and back again.
written, fast-paced, and intricate in plot, politics,
motivation, and characterization. The strong female
protagonists and exploration of class issues, com-
bined with a fun, good read, have me looking forward
to Groell’s next in the series. SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY
No One Noticed the Cat ($13.95 cl, 0-451-45578-9), Jane Donawerth, co-editor of Utopian and Science
a small, gift-sized hardback by Anne McCaffrey, is a Fiction by Women: Worlds of Difference ($16.95 tp,
novella-length fairy tale being marketed for the holi- 0-8156-2650-7), returns with her own work of feminist
day buyer. I suspect this book will do well in your literary criticism in Frankenstein’s Daughter:
store if you have die-hard McCaffrey readers or an Women Writing Science Fiction ($16.95 tp, 0-8156-
abundance of cat-lovers as customers. However, the 0395-9). Exploring the birth of sf, gender problems in
story, though engaging and quite enjoyable, is all traditional, male-oriented sf, and new forms of sf
about wealthy men and their escapades and intrigues devised by female authors to address such problems,
(including — surprise, surprise! — marrying lovely Donawerth utilizes cultural, feminist, literary, and
Princesses). The main character is Prince Jamas, a social theory in her broad overview of sf by women.
young ruler who loses his mentor/regent but gains
the mysterious, heroic cat Niffy. Though a she-cat in TESSERACT (THE BOOKS COLLECTIVE)
body, even the cat proves to be male in the end! This Canadian sf imprint has a number of 1995
and 1996 releases by women writers. Phyllis Gotlieb,
SPECTRA (BANTAM) touted as writing “in the American SF tradition with
From 25th-century China to 19th-century San a uniquely Canadian viewpoint,” has gathered her
Francisco, Lisa Mason's The Golden Nineties ($5.99 short fiction in Blue Apes ($8.95 pb, 1-89536-13-1;
pb, 0-553-57307-1) mixes sf, f, and time-travel. Zhu $21.95 cl, -14-X). Heather Spears’ The Taming ($8.95
65 November /December 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
pb, 1-895836-23-9; $21.95 cl, -24-7) is the final volume Melissa Scott's Lambda Award-winning Shadow Man
in the trilogy that began with Moonfall ($6.95 pb, ($13.95 pb, 0-312-86206-7) is now available in paper-
0-88878-306-X) and continued with The Children of back. In a future where five human sexual identities are
Atwar ($7.95 pb, 0-88878-335-3). Winner of the Prix now acknowledged throughout the galaxy, one planet
Boreal and Philip K. Dick Awards, Elisabeth Vonar- is stuck in the old ways. On Hara, people must choose
burg’s gender-bending books include the recent to be either female or male, permanently. Warreven
Reluctant Voyagers ($8.95 pb, 1-895836-09-3; $21.95 chose to be a man, despite the fact that choosing to be a
c], -15-8), which won the 1996 Prix Aurora for Best woman would have led to marriage with the planetary
Long-Form Work in French, as well as The Silent City ruler’s son. However, Warreven is neither truly male
($9.95 tp, 0-8878-227-2) and The Maerlande Chronicles nor female, and his resulting publicized identity crisis
($8.95 pb, 0-88878-294-2). Their address: 214-21 10405 becomes the crisis of his world.
Jasper Avenue, Edmonton Alberta T5J 382; 403-448- Five-time winner of the World Fantasy Award,
0590. Distributed in Canada by H.B. Fenn & Co.; in (the obviously busy!) Terri Windling presents her
Canada call 800-267-3366. U.S. booksellers can order newest f novel, graced with gorgeous cover art by
Susan Seddon Boulet. The Wood Wife ($22.95 cl,
0-312-85988-0) is the account of urban writer Maggie
Black, courageous seeker of answers, who travels to
the spirit-inhabited Arizona desert upon a mysterious
inheritance. There, she unravels the mystery of a po-
et’s death and his dead wife's art work, encountering
In Beggars Ride ($23.95 cl, 0-312-44554-6), Nancy the desert’s wild magic and shape-changers. O
Kress completes the hard sf trilogy which began with
Hugo and Nebula Award-winner Beggars in Spain ($5.99
pb, 0-380-71877-4, AvoNova) and continued with Beg- Back to Press, continued from page 48.
gars and Choosers ($5.99 pb, 0-8125-5010-2). This third won the 1996 Carey McWilliams Award, an annual
creation “chronicles the rise of the genetically-altered award by Multicultural Review for “an outstanding
Sleepless, a new breed of superintelligent humans, and scholarly or literary publication on an aspect of mul-
their radical effect on civilization in the 21st century.” ticulturalism in the United States.”
Mercedes Lackey’s Firebird ($24.95 cl, 0-312-
85812-4) is a coming-of-age f based on the classic Forthcoming
Russian fairy tale and set in a mythical pre-Tsar, Old Andrea Dworkin signed a three-book contract
Russia. Exiled from his homeland, the protagonist is a with the Free Press at the end of August. Life and Death
young nobleman who undertakes a magical journey will collect her essays, speeches and commentary from
to find the legendary Firebird, an enchanted maiden the past decade; Scapegoat will examine the dynamics
with whom he falls in love. of scapegoating by illustrating how and why women
Nadya ($23.95 cl, 0-312-86226-1) is the latest by and Jews have been stigmatized, the civil inequality
Pat Murphy, author of the Nebula Award-winning both groups have experienced and the prejudices and
novel The Falling Woman ($9.95 tp, 0-312-85406-4, stereotypes that have framed identity for each; and an
Orb). Set in the American West in the mid-1800s, this untitled political memoir, a collective biography of
f adventure is about Nadya, who discovers in adult- women survivors of rape, prostitution and incest, will
hood that she transforms into a wolf when the moon outline Dworkin’s understanding of both loss and
is full. After leaving behind her home, and a tragedy resistance, and how these issues and experiences have
brought about by her male lover, Nadya heads West shaped her feminist ethos. Dworkin will also write a
in search of safety and freedom. new introduction for Intercourse reflecting on the ten
Back in print is another Arthurian spin-off, this years since its original publication. Set for publication
time focusing on that much-maligned vixen Guinevere in April, Intercourse is part of the Free Press’ plan to
($13.95 tp, 0-312-86233-4), by Sharan Newman. issue new editions of classic works to commemorate
Many booksellers will give a big “hurrah!” that the company’s 50th anniversary. O
November /December 1996 66
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
o
C
By Nan Cinnater spending too long at bleak Scargrave Manor, we get
Cape & Dagger /Provincetown to go to London with Jane and seek out clues among
high society. Austen purists may scoff, but cozy mys-
Did everyone read the letter from publisher Joan tery lovers will eat it up. And the cover art is
Drury in Spinsters Ink’s Spring catalogue? It’s a won- outstanding. ($5.99 pb, 0-553-57593-7, January, Ban-
derfully concise and thoughtful answer to the tam.) A hardcover sequel, Jane and the Man of the
question, “Why feminist mysteries?” Drury writes, Cloth, follows close on the heels of the paperback.
“In general, I think feminists began reading, writing, ($21.95 cl, 0-553-10203-6, February, Bantam.)
and publishing mysteries because there is very little Speaking of pastiche, wonder woman Laurie R.
justice for women in the ‘real’ world and, in the fic- King continues her remarkable Sherlock Holmes
tional world of mysteries, there has always been a series with the paper edition of A Monstrous Regi-
highly developed sense of justice. Women are hungry ment of Women. This is the sequel to The Beekeeper’s
and thirsty for justice, in the same way that they are Apprentice and should soon be followed by the new
simply looking for books...that portray women’s hardcover, A Letter of Mary, postponed from the Fall
lives.” If you missed it, contact them at 32 East First St. by St. Martin’s Press. Here, brilliant young university
#330, Duluth MN 55802 or 800-301-6860. Also, be sure student Mary Russell, Holmes’ protégé and beloved
and order their Fall mysteries from the LPC Group: companion, gets involved with a charismatic femi-
Silent Words by Joan M. Drury (the very same), nist/religious leader, a kind of cross between Aimee
sequel to The Other Side of Silence ($10.95 pb, 1-883523- Semple MacPherson and Jane Addams. No one says
13-3), and The Well-Heeled Murders by Cherry the word “settlement,” but that’s what King
Hartman ($10.95 pb, 1-883523-10-9). describes: an urban women’s center in 1920s London,
The Jane Austen craze may be abating (now that complete with child care, sex education, and labor
there are no major works left to be optioned for the cooperatives. Mary notices a pattern of timely deaths
movies), but it should still be easy to sell Jane and among young women who have
the Unpleasantness at Scargrave Manor by willed their fortunes to the
Stephanie Barron. Barron does a wonderful job movement, and she decides to
approximating the nearly inimitable Austen style, make herself a target. Amid
with echoes of both the letters and the novels mixed plenty of action, King finds time
into this fictional journal of Jane’s. In good Austen for feminist theological debate.
tradition, Jane makes a Christmas visit to a newly Certainly not for Holmes fans
married friend, the Countess of Scargrave, just in only! ($5.99 pb, 0-553-57456-6,
time to see her elderly husband taken violently ill January, Bantam.)
and subsequently die. Soon rumors of poison are Jody Jaffe’s debut novel, Horse of a Different
abroad and scandal surrounds the Countess. The Killer, got a lot of positive notice and I can see why.
plotting is not quite as smooth as the style, but after Although written with an insider’s knowledge of the
Illustrations by Yani Batteau from The Dyke Detector, South Carolina horse show circuit, the story is told in
Paradigm Publishing. the voice of an outsider — Natalie Gold, a Jewish
67 November /December 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Yankee working girl, who finds herself in a world ($6.50 pb, 0-446-40505-1,
dominated by Southern WASP money. Natalie is good February, Mysterious Press/
company and a good narrator, a feature-writing Warner.)
reporter who just happens to be crazy about horses. New paperbacks in reliable
The plot is serviceable and the story moves along at a series include The 77th Street
good clip (not to say “canters” or “gallops”). ($5.99 pb, Requiem by Wendy Hornsby, in
0-8041-1472-2, Ivy.) If your customers are really big on which filmmaker Maggie
horses, you might also try Hoofprints by Laura Crum, MacGowan is working on a
sequel to Cutter, about a horse vet named Gail documentary about the un-
McCarthy who works in California ranch country. solved murder of an L.A. cop
($5.99 pb, 0-312-96040-9, St. Martin’s.) ($5.99 pb, 0-451-40675-3, Onyx); and Nobody’s Child
Readers of Grisham, Ludlum and other high- by Janet Dawson, in which private eye Jeri Howard
stakes thrillers should enjoy Linda Davies’ goes undercover among Berkeley's homeless to find
Wilderness of Mirrors, which features a female Brit- out what happened to a teenage runaway ($5.99 pb,
ish intelligence agent working to bring down a drug 0-449-22356-6, Fawcett).
smuggler. Davies is a former merchant banker who Monkey Wrench by Liza Cody, sequel to Bucket
uses her specialized financial knowledge in her Nut, is about a female wrestler (“the London assas-
books. Entertainment Weekly wrote, “Along with sex- sin”) who gets involved with a group of prostitutes
ual intrigue and derring-do, there’s a lot of great stuff trying to protect themselves from a killer. This is
here about how to leverage a buy-out or run a stock strong stuff, with class, sex, and gender issues
scam...” ($6.99 pb, 0-440-22295-8, Dell.) If Davies is aplenty, but the main character and her world are so
attempting to create a female James Bond, Katherine very odd that it’s impossible to classify. I loved it.
Neville has already given us a female Indiana Jones. ($5.99 pb, 0-446-40457-8, Mysterious Press / Warner.)
` Neville’s The Eight is the kind of steady-selling back- Kate Kinsella, the part-time nurse and private eye of
list that booksellers love and customers will thank Christine Green’s series, is also decidedly odd, or
you for. The story follows a chess set owned by Char- maybe she’s just British. Sometimes it’s hard for me
lemagne across centuries and continents, with a to tell. In any case, these medical whodunits are not
terrific contemporary heroine. If you don’t already Robin Cook clones, more like Cody’s Anna Lee with
know about it, get it and hand sell it. ($6.99 pb, a nursing degree — offbeat and interesting. Green’s
0-345-36623-9, Ballantine.) Deadly Admirer will be out in December ($4.99 pb,
Here are a couple of women authors to help fill 0-373-25223-X), Worldwide), and Deadly Practice in
the apparently insatiable demand for legal thrillers. March ($4.99 pb, 0-373-26232-9, Worldwide).
Guilty As Sin by Tami Hoag features lawyer Ellen Windy City Blues, Sara Paretsky’s collection of
North prosecuting the kidnapper of a young boy in short stories about V.I. Warchawski, will be out in
the trial of her life. ($6.50 pb, 0-553-56452-8, Febru- paper in December. The high points are a Paretsky’s-
ary, Bantam.) eye tour of Chicago in the introduction, and the
This will be followed in the spring by Hoag’s new story in which V.I. comes across a personal ad seek-
hardcover, A Thin Dark Line, in which a woman cop ing the whereabouts of her mother, whom she
tries to nail a killer who got let off on a technicality. believes long dead. Fans will be happy. $6.99 pb,
($22.95 c], 0-553-09960-4, April, Bantam.) Speak No 0-440-21873-X, Dell.
Evil by Rochelle Majer Krich Political Death by Antonia Fraser is the first
features a young Orthodox Jemima Shore mystery in five years, which is reason
Jewish attorney who is for rejoicing among certain readers. Fraser has been
defending a rape suspect, busy writing scholarly books such as The Warrior
o o kn ill ly in gt o la d wi ysc eo rv se r w hso om se uo cn ce e s si -s CQ ru oe se sn ,s F a rn ad se rT h we a sG u aln sp oo w a d e pr i o nP el eo rt , ob fu t t, h el ik fe e m A im nia sn t d a mys-
fully defend rapists. Critical tery. Here journalist Jemima Shore is summoned to
quotes look very good. the home of elderly Lady Imogen Swain, whose
November /December 1996 68
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
diaries tell sexual secrets that someone is willing to kill cookie-cutter plot. Brenden Harlow of the LAPD
for. $5.99 pb, 0-553-57203-2, February, Bantam. draws decoy duty to catch a serial killer who attacks
As booksellers know, there are more fictional women at cash machines. This works all too well;
women detectives named Cat than actual women of soon she’s being followed and getting phone calls on
that name in the entire population, or so it seems. Here her unlisted number. But the dialogue-driven story
comes another one: Cat Austen, a New Jersey reporter zips along, with credible details about life on the force
investigating the death of a “shock jock” — think and off. Drug and alcohol abuse in Brenden’s life are
Howard Stern — in Death of a DJ by Jane Rubino. dealt with realistically and not sensationally. Only the
($4.99 pb, 0-06-104433-4, February, Harper.) On the climax, when Brenden (of course) confronts the killer,
other hand, there are shockingly few African Ameri- becomes clichéd and a bit lurid, but by then I was
can women in the genre, so it’s good to see a new Black completely hooked. If you can’t sell the hardcover,
author and character. Do Not Go Gently by Judith wa&it fo r p apeSr. $c23 hcl, 0u-684-s814t31-5e, Jranua.ry , S imOon
Smith-Levin introduces African American police lieu-
tenant Starletta Duvall, who sets herself up as bait for
a serial killer who attacks Black women professionals. Announcements, continued from page 42.
($5.99 pb, 0-06-101109-6, Harper.) women’s studies catalog including 300 titles. It
As for hardcovers, All She Was includes works from the U.S., Ireland, England,
Worth by Miyuki Miyabe was Scotland, Wales, Japan, France, the Middle East,
named Best Mystery and Best Denmark, Norway, Finland, Sweden, Italy, Ger-
Novel of the Year when it appeared many and Russia. Authors include: Jenny Joseph,
in Japan in 1992. Translated by Anna Akhmatova, Jackie Kay, Mary Dorcey, Irina
Alfred Birnbaum, it’s being pub- Ratushinskaya, Colette, Monique Wittig, Dacia
lished in hardcover in the U.S. in Maraini, Anna Kavan and Selma Lagerlof (the first
February. This is the kind of “find” woman to ever win the Nobel Prize for Literature).
that feminist bookstores are known For a copy of the catalog write Dufour Editions, PO
for. Like Batya Gur’s Israeli myster- Box 7, Chester Springs PA 19425.
ies, this features a male police detective, but should H
hold plenty of cross-cultural interest for feminist read-
ers. The detective is trying to find his nephew’s
missing fiancée, only to discover that she may have
completely fabricated her identity. $22 cl, 4-7700-1922-X, WomanMade Products, a woman owned and
Kodansha International. operated textile screen printing company, celebrates
I wasn't planning to include The Knowledge of its 20th anniversary this year. Since they began print-
Water by Sara Smith, but a review in the Crime col- ing T-shirts in 1976, it has been their goal to provide
umn of The New York Times Book Review changed my quality T-shirts, clothing and gifts for the lesbian /gay
mind. There Marilyn Stasio called it “a lushly erotic, and feminist communities. If you haven’t seen their
feminist study of artists and lovers and killers swept 20th Anniversary Catalog call or write for one now:
up in their obsessive passions.” Set in Parisin 1910, the WomanMade Products, PO Box 517, Seneca Fall NY
story concerns the murder of a street singer called 13148; 315-568-9364.
Mona Lisa, a plot to steal the real Mona Lisa, and a Healthy Weight Journal is sponsoring the third
love story between concert pianist Perdia Halley and annual Healthy Weight Week, January 19-25, Rid the
the dashing Alexander von Reisden. He was the hero World of Fad Diets and Gimmicks Day on January 21,
of Smith’s previous book, The Vanished Child. That and Women’s Healthy Weight Day on January 23.
book got great reviews, and this one sounds even Healthy Weight Week promotes healthy lifestyle
more interesting to feminist readers. $23 cl, 0-345- habits that prevent the onset of weight problems and
39135-7, Ballantine. last a lifetime. For more information contact: Healthy
High-Heel Blue by Diane K. Shah is better than Weight Journal, 402 South 14th Street, Hettinger ND
you would expect from a brief description of the 58639; 701-567-2646, fax 701-567-2602. O
69 November /December 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Cheerup
someone’s the same design across multiple products!
birthday with Customers love coordinated gift sets.
a colorful
birthday mug!
With over 120 designs to
choose from,
you’re sure to find the
perfect fit
for your retail needs —
Big, Bright and Bold: our most | Straight or Gay!
popular design, the RAINBOW All of our designs are
FLAG WRAP, engulfs the Mug from available on
handle to handle. all of our products.
AFFORDABLE PRICES: 110z Mugs $4.00, 150z Mugs $5.00, Call TODAY for your FREE
M18 o0 uz s e S t Pe ain ds s $ $7 4. .2 25 5, tT o- s $h 8i .r 0t 0s . $ V7 o.5 lu0 m, eC o da is st ce or us n t$ s2 . 2 a5 v, a i lC abom le!puter full color information pack
#B110W.
LOW MINIMUM ORDER size allows you to try a wide variety
of designs without spending a fortune! Minimum order size is
12 of any one product (i.e. Mugs, Steins, Coasters) and may 1-800-248-MUGS (6847)
consist of 1 to 12 different designs. There are over 120
different Lesbian, Gay and General designs to choose from.
C i an U - sS h pT o eO u cM s te uD g lrE araS p I G h pN i rc s ds ue d cr e tv p i a c r fe t m a v e ana i t l oa b ntl h ee -a t if r co eam n to tu uu r pr n c yo em eo u p r ol fe t i e d $e 3a 5s i Yn ot uo Rea AG cT P oh . rOe . M B Cu o axg 1 9R 2 4a 3 5c 1 2k , 2,
a c o o r t m s e f . r CK. Con d , .
C nu o s t ao dm di t D ioe ns aig l n s e i ts u p t h fe en e ! available on any of our products with CUSTOMUGS " Fax (510) 686-6274
November /December 1996 70 Volume 19 Number 4
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Compiled by Barb Smalley Honor (2-Set)/ Various: Ulali, Indigo Girls, et al.
Ladyslipper Music This specially-priced, 1996 double compilation
features nine tracks by Native artists — including
By the time this reaches your hands, you will Ulali, Indigenous, Keith Secola & Wild Band of Indi-
probably be selling many of the popular new releases ans, and Joy Harjo & Poetic Justice — in addition to
this season: Ferron’s Still Riot, Holly Near and Ronnie twelve tracks by the Indigo Girls, Jane Siberry, Bonnie
Gilbert's This Train Still Runs, Rhiannon’s Live on Raitt and David Grisman, Victoria Williams, Revers-
Tomales Bay, the new pop compilation Women for ing Hour, Exene Cervenka and others. The intention
Women II, and that cover-art with CD accompaniment of the project is to create widespread support for
Classical Erotica II. Y'd like to highlight a few other new Native environmental struggles. The album benefits
picks of ours — by both well-known and more Native environmental groups and Native women’s
obscure artists. We have customers increasingly look- projects chosen in conjunction with the Indigenous
ing for more “world” music, including Celtic, Native
American and percussion from various traditions. At
the end of this article, you'll also find some holiday
titles we like.
Beauty in the Beat/Barbara Borden. This 1996
release “spans the global possiblities of rhythm-driven
melodies” — it’s like a trip around the rhythm world!
Barbara employs many types of drums and percussion,
including trap drums, hand drums, wooden blocks,
bells and shakers — 40 different instruments in all —
capturing the universal power of drumming with a
delicacy that is rarely heard. Cloud 9 555. A AS E E
Barb Smalley is even more fascinated by populations ALIN
and markets and how the word gets out about music and E EA AA
musicians than she is by the music. Not a big spender
herself, she loves the challenge of finding the music that will have to bother singing.” — Janis lan
sell for bookstores as much as she loves a good music festival.
Barb has been with Ladyslipper since 1990 and is the
wholesale manager. She and Jennifer Einhorn will alternate
hosting FBN’s music column beginning with this issue.
71 November /December 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsWomen’s Network, the Seventh Generation Fund and
the Indigenous Environmental Network. Daemon 19012.
Mutiny at the Matinee /The Derivative Duo. On
this Fall 96 release, the lesbian duo once again musses
the hair of the great opera, ballet and piano concerti
classics. Aided and abetted by Pro Homo Voci, a Seat-
tle lesbian and gay chorus (who gives the album a
“true” operatic feel — better to parody you with, my
dear). Derivative Duo 2.
Rene Russell / Rene Russell. A native of Colum-
bia, South Carolina, and now a part of the fertile
Austin, Texas music scene, Rene has been on the
road for ten years with her finger-picked 12-string
guitar and friendly rock-n-roll. An out lesbian, she
has opened for the Indigo Girls, Tom Chapin and,
hold on to your hats, Hootie and the Blowfish. Her
1996 album of original mid-tempo originals with a
little growl is reminiscent of Melissa Ferrick and gets
down easily. (As I'm writing this, fellow 'Slips keep
popping in to ask who I'm listening to. She’s piqued
our interest!) Well-produced (not to be taken for
granted...) with tasty arrangements for guitar, key-
boards, bass and drums, her songs are about
universal themes with special interest to lesbians
and gays. Verge Records 8950.
True North /Kathryn Warner. What a voice! With
No. 4 Supr Seperenme Beinge Being a dadra zR the purity of an alto Joan Baez and the richness of
Na 5 Searching for a God toffee, Kathryn Warner is a wonderful gift to cherish
Who Tooks Tike Me and hold close. Her 1996 album has a direct line to
your heart and once there it tugs on the strings for all
Wholesale Prices: it's worth. From blues to ballads, she creates beautiful
M VX o,L lX u m L& e X d$L i1 s c4$ o1 u.20 n. t00 s0 avail. mini- t Oap be as /t Wri ie ls d w Mit ah n g oe .a c Lh i k s eo n ag . t rF ou pl il c aC l i r bc rle e e z1 e0 , 1 . the
Min. order: 6 (any size/design) mostly mellow Latin/jazz stylings of this seven-
S oi nlk s tc hr ee e n be ad ck si n o fs t u wn hn ii tn eg H c ao nlo esr woman California band are always welcome. Delicate
L4" = 100% cotton "Beefy T's" shadings of congas, timbales, flute, guitar and alto sax
Feminine Fece f Gol create a slinky groove for this 1996 album of vocal and
Na 6 Feminine Fuce of God instrumental originals (except for a slow, bass-heavy
...with these exquisite new T's version of the Bacharach /David easy-listening jewel,
by GynDesigns! “The Look of Love” — Sergio Mendes and Brasil 66
To order call 1-800-866-2062 or fax your order to similarities are sprinkled throughout). Lyrics are in
1-800-558-9638 or write to Gyn/Designs, 7902 both Spanish and English. Good for in-store play
Gerber Rd. #149, Sacramento, CA. 95828-4352 when the winter gets to be too much. Marquee
Records 2002.
72
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Warrior Queen/Akabu. Akabu (which means liner notes contain insightful and wonderful musings
“African Women”) is an excellent London-based six on the creative process and ways of hearing /listen-
piece, all-female modern reggae/dub group. Their ing...this is a special treasure for those of us who have
keyboards, guitar, bass sound is painted with the been her fans for years and years. Sheeba 001.
sweet vocals of percussionist/songwriter Vyris The Women of Kerrville/Various Kerrville
Edghill, guitarist/songwriter Valerie Skeete and Artists. This exciting compilation of some of the best
Madelaine Edghill and the righteous chatting of DJ singer/songwriters around today was recorded at the
Samantha “Pepsi” Edghill (coincidence or sisters?). 1995 Kerrville, Texas Folk Festival. A great introduc-
On-U Sound 71. tion for anyone wanting to dip their ear into the rich
world of folk, this collection includes both big names
and some up’'n'comers: Dar Williams, Tish Hinojosa,
Eliza Gilkyson, Cheryl Wheeler, Susan Werner,
Caroline Aiken, Lynn Miles, Catie Curtis, Domestic
Yoruba Women of the Drum/Madam Omege & Science Club plus more. Nary a dud to be found here!
Madam Ogunfalu. This 1995 release compiles two Silver Wolf 1004.
different styles of Nigerian voice-and-percussion I Surrender/Barbara Higbie. This long-antici-
music, also known as Yoruba street percussion, that pated 1996 release from the Grammy-nominated,
have traditionally been associated with women. critically acclaimed singer/songwriter and multi-
Madam Mujidat Ogunfalu and her Asiko Waka group instrumentalist has been well worth the wait!
perform waka, a Muslim derived style that utilizes Accompanied by guitarist Nina Gerber, vocalist
chanting, a percussive instrument made of a ham- Chris Webster and a host of others, Higbie presents
mered tin disc surrounded by metal rings and the a warm and lively mix of songs and tuneful
four-finger tenor finger piano called the agidigbo.
Madam Comfort Omoge and her Asake Isale Group
perform ashiko, which derives from the Christian Hilary's Comfort Beads would like
Yoruba of Lagos who had, in turn, been influenced by to thank Feminist Bookstores
the samba from Brazil, via the community of returned
slaves known as aguda. Both styles blend older musi- around the country for seven years
cal traditions with modern hymns, slang and of support and four years of listings
imported musical styles to create hypnotic 17-18 as a best selling sideline in this
minute “song-suites.” Original Music 36. publication! We specialize in hand
Rebecca Riots/Rebecca Riots. This Berkeley-
based feminist folk trio (Eve Decker, Andrea Pritchett held stones and beads, each
and Lisa Zeiler), previously known as Final Girl, pre- imprinted with one of over 100
sents a 1995 “radical folk-rock” album, which has empowering words. Part of profits
g ina r n te hr ee d i n c to em nsp ea r ai cs oo un ss t i ct o s oC ua nss de l b ae nr dr y t- hD eu p dr yee n a — m ic b o at nh d go to organizations that support
political lyrics. Rebecca Riots 3. cancer research, and women’s and
Teenager/Jane Siberry. These 13 songs were writ- gay rights groups in Oregon.
ten by Jane during her teens, and recorded and free catalog!
released in 1996 (as she was turning 40) — the true
meaning of “retrospective!” Includes the first song she Hilary's Comfort Beads
ever wrote, called “For My Father” (with a snippet of PO Box 14164
a version recorded at age 17), plus “Trumpeter Swan” Portland, OR 97293
(a tribute to an aunt whom she later named herself
a ff et ater u) r. e sA c Jo au ns et i c o na n vd o cb aa lss ,i c a gll uy it au rn a ad no dr n ped ia, n oT , e e wn ia tg he r just New 1 - 8p 0h 0o -n 3e 7 7 -a 5n 8d 8 6 fax:
back-up vocals and accordion accompanying. The
73 November /December 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
of Choruses) Festival where they were a big hit. On
this 1996 recording, they cover the gamut of a cap-
pella styles: classic doo-wop with “In the Still of The
Night;” the Flirtation’s arrangements of “Something
Inside So Strong” and Cris Williamson’s “Shooting
Star;” a madrigal interpretation of Dorothy Parker’s
sardonic poem, “Coda;” Leadbelly / Bernice Johnson
Reagon’s “Silvie;” a Manhattan Transfer-y version
of Fred Smalls feminist “Fifty-Nine Cents;” even a
radical reworking of Disney’s “Kiss The Girl” (from
The Little Mermaid — I certainly prefer this version!).
Solid, tight, political, fun...what more do you need?
Undertones 96.
CELTIC:
DÍANA MANLEY River of Stars /Noirin Ni Riain. Dubbed “one of
(510) 527-0511 I sr pe el aa kn sd ’ s a b l oi uv tin g h e rt r e mas uu sr ie cs a, l” a nth di s s pa im ria tz ui an lg j oC ue rlt ni ec y s i on ng e tr his
Fax (510) 527-0511-33 1996 release. Noirin discusses the inspiration she
PO Box 14867 • Berkeley, CA 94712 drew and continues to draw from other women, and
the “deep bonds” she feels with St. Brigid, Hildegard
von Bingen, poets Emily Dickinson and Ryonen (from
instrumental originals, full to the brim with soulful- Japan) on her quest for the divine source. Includes her
ness, heart and joy. Slowbaby 82211. previously unavailable original song for Mary
Transisters / Transisters. Goddesses of the “Pink Magdalene, “On Lone Calvary,” and her thoughts on
Rock” (multi-gendered rock-n-roll) movement, the women’s music and creativity, the transcendental
NYC-based Transisters work, like their name, on a few nature of song and more. Sounds True 291.
levels. They are comprised of lead singer/lyricist Wood, Fire and Gold/Kim Robertson. Inspired
Chloe (a male-to-female transsexual), bassist/song- by ancient Celtic and French melodies, Kim has cre-
writer Gyda Gash, drummer Tracy Almazen and ated a 1996 musical collage of unparalleled beauty.
guitarist Kathy Rey (from one of the first all female The breath-taking purity of her ethereal voice, min-
punk bands, The Bloods). With a sound reminiscent of gled with the sparkling yet serene sounds of her Celtic
late 70s/early 80s classic punk, they tackle subjects harp, soars over a richly-woven tapestry of shimmer-
including child abuse and addiction, incest, the poli- ing strings, haunting woodwinds and exotic
tics of gender and sexuality and AIDS. On top and in percussion. Dargason Music 119.
your face, this 1995 seven song EP cuts close to the NATIVE AMERICAN:
edge. Transisters 100.
Mahk Jchi /Ulali. This First Nations women’s a
cappella trio has toured with the Indigo Girls. (“We
don't go by the name Native America, because our
blood and people are older than America will ever be
Six Women, No Strings/The Undertones. This and we don’t recognize the borders.”) Pura Fe
all-woman a cappella sextet has been performing (Katenuaga/ Tuscarora), Soni (Mayan/Apache), and
together since 1991; we had the good fortune to hear Jennifer (Katenuaga/ Tuscarora) blend their talents to
them at the 96 GALA (Gay and Lesbian Association deliver a mystical and sweeping sound, which
November /December 1996 74
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
combines a variety of traditional and contemporary culture; individual songs are named after women
indigenous music of the Americas. Singing about members of the Shenandoah family, with notes
struggles and prophesies, their work is a form of about their personalities and contributions to the
personal and historic expression. This album contains community. Silverwave 913.
“Mother,” “Women’s Shuffle,” “Necklace of Broken
Hearts,” and their well-known title track, which trans- HOLIDAY TITLES:
lates to “Our Hearts.” Thrush 7581. A Star in the East/ Anonymous 4. On their sixth
Letter From the End of the 20th C./Joy Harjo & album, released for the 1996 Christmas holidays, this
Poetic Justice. Joy Harjo, author of many books amazing vocal quartet performs an evocative and
including Woman Who Fell From the Sky, is an enrolled transcendental program (could they do any other
member of the Muscogee tribe; Poetic Justice is a kind?) of rare Hungarian Christmas music. Flavored
six-member Native American/reggae/jazz/rock with modalities and cadences rooted in the folk tradi-
band formed to provide a musical union with Joy’s tion of medieval Hungary, this music will, of course,
poetry. Joy plays saxophone and speaks her lyrical delight. Harmonia Mundi 7139.
words over the multi-ethnic sounds, while Dakotans Holiday Times /Ella Jenkins. For terrific family
Susan and John Williams, Hopi Frank Poocha, Isleta sing-alongs, here’s a 1996 album that covers not only
Pueblo/Navajo Willie Bluehouse Johnson and Christmas but Hanukkah, Kwanzaa and Chinese
Richard Carbajal jam on drums, guitars and bass. If New Year. Contains songs, chants, rhymes and
you missed them opening for the Indigo Girls on their stories, all written, composed and/or arranged by
“Honor The Earth” tour, here is another chance to this wonderful children’s artist. Ukelele, harmonica,
experience this powerful music! Red Horses 1. guitars, pipe organ, wooden flutes, drums, bells and
many other percussion instruments accompany.
Can You Afford Not to Call?
Songs of the Spirit/Various Artists. This 1996
compilation of contemporary Native music includes
some of the most critically acclaimed female and male
vocal and instrumental artists performing today. The Most Extensive Selection
Among the contributors: Rita Coolidge, of rock-n-roll
fame; the Little Wolf Band, with Laura Coolidge of Recordings by Women
Satterfield and her mother, Priscilla Coolidge; Joanne
Shenandoah; Native Flute Ensemble; R. Carlos Nakai;
500 Nations and others. This release beautifully fulfills
the intent of Native peoples to preserve the songs of Feminist/Women’s Music + Comedy + World
their ancestors while creating new contemporary Drumming/Percussion + Rock/Pop + Spoken
forms for those ancient songs. Triloka 4137.
Matriarch/Joanne Shenandoah. This 1996 Alternative + Soundtracks + Men's Music
r re ol oe ta es de ii ns a t h c eo l hle ic st ti oo rn y o of f c to hm e p l Hex au dw enom ose an u’ ns e es o (n tg hs e Blues + Spirituality + Jazz + Classical
People of the Longhouse), composed to honor all Country + International + and much more...
women as the Lifegivers and as a “series of thanks-
givings for the bounties of Mother Earth, the true
Matriarch and sustainer of us all.” Recorded at
ancient village sites in Oneida Territory, Joanne’s LADYSLIPPERQMUSIC
solo voice is subtly enhanced by Native flute, drums Nationally Distributing Music By Women Since 1976
and guitar. The liner notes offer an excellent over-
view of Haudenosaunee women’s history and
75 November /December 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Recommended for children and their adults and Making Spirits Bright/Vancouver Men’s
educators. Smithsonian Folkways 45041. Chorus. Accompanied by a jazzy 18-piece orchestra,
this Christmas album features songs by women’s
music artists Cris Williamson (“Lullaby” and “Wish-
book”) and Connie Kaldor (“Island Santa”) along
with some holiday classics, and not-quite classics,
A Scottish Christmas/Maggie Sansone/B and a few tunes having not one whit of Christmas-
Rideout/A Petteway. From across the Highland ness (“My Buddy” and “You Go to My Head”). With
moors...the haunting wail of fiddle and bagpipe. Into special guest, jazz pianist Louise Rose. Vancouver
the castle drawing rooms...the elegant chamber sound Men’s Chorus 2.
of viola and cello. And out in the village To Warm the Winter's Night/ Aine Minogue. This
squares...lively country dances with hammered dulci- 1995 “Celtic Holiday Celebration” from Irish émigré
mer and guitar. Celebrate the many moods of a harpist and singer Aine is a beautiful collection of songs
Scottish Yuletide holiday, with this 1996 release from and spoken word pieces gathered from Ireland,
Maggie, Bonnie and Al, plus guest artists Abby England, Wales, Scotland and Brittany. A few of the
Newton and Eric Rigler (the piper from the film Brave- songs such as “Oiche Chuain/Silent Night” and “The
heart). Maggies Music 215. Olde Year Now Away Has Fled /Greensleeves” are well
known, but most of them are ancient, nearly-forgotten
celebrations of winter, Yule, New Year and Winter
Solstice. Aine and her harp are also joined by Irish pipes
and whistles, cello and oboe. Evergreen Music 014.
P.O. BOX 762
SIMPSONVILLE, SC 29681
STATIC CLING DECALS &
OTHER PROUD STUFF Mother & Child/Various Artists. Following the
excellent advice offered by Girls in the Nose to have
WE OFFER THE WIDEST SELECTION “more Madonna, less Jesus,” we suggest this “Christ-
OF GAY/LESBIAN STATIC CLING m fea ms a lC e e l ae rb tr ia st ti so n w hof o aM ro et h ae lsr oh o mod o,” th ef re sa .t u Wri on mg e nel e v fe rn om the
DECALS INCLUDING: worlds of pop, r&b, country and gospel — CeCe
* RAINBOW PRIDE Winans, Amy Grant, Olivia Newton-John, Beth Nielsen
* PINK TRIANGLE Chapman, Suzy Bogguss, Kindred Spirit and others —
* BLACK TRIANGLE perform songs specifically written or arranged for this
* RAINBOW TRIANGLE p “ r o Aje vc et , M a as r iw a,”el l “ Bas le su s n i Tq hu ie s v Ce hr is li do ,n ”s “ o Cf h r h iso tl mid aa sy L c ul la ls as bic ys ”:
* RAINBOW DECALS WITH and more. Gaia Saber 35173.
SILHOUETTE OF EACH STATE A Winter Celebration /Various Artists. A tran-
quil compilation of songs to celebrate the winter and
GREAT S UQ PU EA RL I T FY A, S T G O SEO RD V IP CR EICES & the winter solstice, this 1995 recording gathers both
traditional and original instrumentals and vocals.
FREE WHOLESALE AND Includes Joanne Shenandoah’s Iroquois lyricizing on
RETAIL CATALOGUES “Winter Dream,” Chris White’s soaring a cappella on
“Lay Down Your Burden” (she’s the vocalist in Flesh
(864) 862 - 7833 VOICE and Bone, who also contributes a piece here), and
NnNEN N K,V I A LsE L A LIZ Y TI T L T LT ST LTT L Ty( T LI S8 T PFT6 LTIT LA4 TF LE) T LIE LFT 8 LETF6 LF LT2yI L FT AL F LF-F L F L F L6 FI LSF9 F S4 IF SL4F AEFF LFL SFF SIF A A kS A AS AA N ,AA NX A LE N AAA4 A A ,AAAE SC A S aNS A y EN AA,A k VAAA vAMA vA A A A N NN SA vNAN KA A KA ANAs R ,YYAANA A SAè P a tnet ide o r e n aK g ,la et e r “b o S n’s oe lp swia thn i io s c t l ea en . d ”o n R . St h iC e la i vrr l o eis n r s wN tra uk ama vi e’s en t N a la 9t mi 0ve e 6 d i .f t l au -t Oe
76
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
By Richard Labonte with five other brothers-in-arms (and -in-bed, one pre-
A Different Light Bookstores sumes) to form a costume-wearing social club. “Soon,”
says Dickey, “other veterans asked to join the club.
What follows is part two of the Summer-Fall new When the straights took over...the original gay
books listing, which was broken up by a more essay- members thought it was time to quit.” And the author
like column last issue; it seemed that commenting on takes 350 pages to tell this story! $25 cl, 0-8038-9383-9,
the business of books was a slight theme, and I'd urge Hastings House, PGW.
anyone who didn’t have time to read the smart little And now, in keeping with this issue’s theme, older
essay by Ed Hermance of Giovanni’s Room — my bestselling, newer and forthcoming humor titles:
predecessor with the Gay Lit column — to burrow *Naked by David Sedaris — From the author of
into their back issues and check it out. He gets right to the fabulously hilarious Barrel Fever ($9.95 pb, 0-316-
the point of why women’s and lesbian and gay book- 77942-3, Little, Brown), more mad moments in his life
stores deserve — nay, have earned the right to — and on the road. Sedaris is the funniest gay writer to
bulk-sale and special-order sales for “our” books. come down the pike, and worth stocking in any store.
Read, reflect, re-print. ($21.95 cl, 0-316-77949-0, Little, Brown).
To the books: many are by now available, expected Drag Queen by Robert Rodi — This Chicago
month of publication is given for forthcoming titles, writer (Fag Hag, Closet Case) gets better and funnier
and titles I especially recommend are asterisked (*). with every novel; here’s the story of guppy straight-
One title I especially, especially recommend, arrow Mitchell who discovers he has a drag queen
before getting to the rest of the listings, is **Boys Like twin brother. $11.95 pb, 0-452-27344-7, Plume.
Us: Gay Writers Tell Their Coming Out Stories
edited by Patrick Merla. These are essays on coming
out, with a tremendous range of ages, arranged
chronologically from Manhattan in the late 1940s to
San Francisco in the early 1990s; and what's particu- *Betty & Pansy’s Severe Queer Review of San
larly enticing is that the accounts are by a wide range Francisco by Betty Pearl and Pansy — Well, yeah, it’s
of contemporary writers, among them Samuel R. a travel book (fifth edition, in fact). But this best-
Delany and Edmund White, Scott Heim and Norman selling guide is as popular for the wit of its insight
Wong, Alex Chee and Michael Nava — authors who as it is for the right-onness of its entries. $10.95 pb,
lace their proud confessions with the grace of great 1-57344-056-6, Cleis.
writing. $24 cl, 0-380-07340-5, Avon Books. *Living It Up: Humorous Adventures in Hyper-
Another title I want to showcase this issue has domesticity by Karen Finley — I guess she’s not gay,
certainly the most unusual thesis I've encountered in 18 but she does camp and parody well (viz. her takeoff
years of selling gay books (and 30 years of reading on self-help books, Enough is Enough). Here, the object
them): it’s Penumbra: How Gay Confederate Veterans of loving lampooning is, well, Martha Stuart, hence
Founded the Ku Klux Klan by Buford Dickey. It seems the obvious appeal to gay men who can laugh at
that the author’s great-great-uncle was openly homo- themselves. This is the book advanced and then
sexual all through the Civil War, and at war’s end joined rejected by Stuart's own publisher when they realized
77 November /December 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
how close to the bone it cut.... $15.95 cl, 0-385-48645-6, little gift book, nicely designed and sure to overlap with
Doubleday. the book cited above. $15 cl, 0-385-48179-9, Doubleday.
Wicked by Gregory Maquire — Paper edition of a, *Queer Baby Names edited by Matthew Retten-
well, wickedly funny novel, rich with allegory and mund and Liz Tracey — Yes, it’s another parody, though
imagination and inspired by The Wizard of Oz, in which I've heard, perhaps one of those urban (sales rep’s)
the sound argument is made Elphaba wasn’t that legends that the marketing department at St. Martin’s
wicked after all. $12.50 pb, 0-06-098710-3, HarperCollins. didn’t think at first that there'd be a market yet for gay
baby names. $7.95 pb, 0-312-14711-2, St. Martin’s.
Primary Whites by Anonymous — Sub-titled “A
While there has always been Novel Look at Right-Wing Politics,” this deadly-accu-
somewhat more non-fiction rate parody of Primary Colors switches Pat Buchanan
for Bill Clinton, parallels the lesbian character of the
(there are many more subject original with same fond gay-bashing (let me explain:
because it’s an inverse of Colors, this book's bad-
categories, after all), mouthing of gays is actually politically correct) and
throws in a transvestite romance as well. $9.95 cl,
the balance has recently 0-7871-1104-X, Dove Books.
really tipped. *Gay Comix #23 edited by Andy Mangels — After
a year in hiatus, this 16-year-old showcase for queer
comix talent is back. Contributors include an equal mix
*A Funny Time to Be Gay: Hilarious Gay and of women and men, among them Roberta Gregory,
Lesbian Comedy Routines, from Trailblazers to Catherine Doherty and Beck Main, J. A. Fludd, David
Today's Headliners by Ed Karvoski, Jr. — From in-jokes Kelly and Jon Macy. $3.50, Bay Area Reporter, 395 Ninth
for an in-crowd to full hours on Comedy Central: we're Street, SF CA 94103 for direct orders, or try BP.
here, we're queer, and you can laugh at us, says this Absolutely Fabulous 2 by Jennifer Saunders —
part-social history, part-comedy routine collection. $12 The complete second season scripts of the U.K. pro-
pb, 0-684-81806-5, January, Simon & Schuster. gram which was such a hit on Comedy Central. Even
The Homo Handbook: Getting in Touch with in print, it’s hilarious. $12 pb, 0-671-00021-7; Ab Fab
Your Inner Homo by Judy Carter — From a stand-up 1 is also $12 pb, -52714-2, Pocket Books.
comic, a ten-step strategy for coming out, filled with *Leonard & Larry: Kurt Cobain and Mozart Are
cartoons, quizzes, charts and worksheets and some Both Dead by Tim Barella — Certainly the most
seriously funny suggestions on how to leave the right popular of the comic-art collections sold at A Different
clothes behind when you come out of the closet. One Light, and the closest gay male work comes to Dykes
question: why “homo” twice in one title? $12 pb, to Watch Out For in terms of humor and insight: here’s
0-684-81358-0, Simon & Schuster. what Robert Triptow says in his introduction: ”...off-
The Wit & Wisdom of Oscar Wilde: A Treasury spring of Lucy and Ethel...they’re originally from
of Quotations, Anecdotes and Observations by Mayberry, they've hung out at Cheers...can out-bitch
Ralph Keyes — Hip is OK, and it’s nice to see the burst the cast of Designing Women and have French-kissed
of new humour energy; but there’s nothing like a Roseanne.” $9.95, 1-884568-04-1, Palliard Press,
classic wit, and there are hundreds and hundreds of Alamo Square or BP; also: Domesticity Isn't Pretty, the
examples in this 192-page culling of Wilde's words. first Leonard & Larry Collection, $12.95 pb, -00-9.
It's from a series which previously has included Abra- *Doc & Raider Incredibly Lifelike by Sean
ham Lincoln, Ben Franklin, Winston Churchill and Martin — Full-page cartoons about a sweet couple
Mark Twain... I guess there have never been any with a slight S/M flavor. $10.95 pb, 1-895564-04-2, Q
women in the English-speaking world either wise or Press, Alamo Square.
witty. $12 pb, 0-06-992755-0, HarperCollins. *The Ethan Green Chronicles by Eric Orner —
Oscar Wilde's Guide to Modern Living edited by And Orner runs Barella a close second, with his wry
John Calvin Batchelor and Craig McNeer — A great and occasionally wicked comic commentary on the
November /December 1996 78 Volume 19 Number 4
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
lives of Ethan and his friends. $10.95 pb, 0-312-14742-2, for gay fiction, this is a good book to stock. $13.95 pb,
St. Martin’s. 0-316-10329-9, Little, Brown/Back Bay Books.
Municipal Bondage: One Man’s Anxiety- Shadowdance by Robert Wayne Bailey —
Producing Adventures in the Big City by Henry Upfront gayness in a highly readable fantasy, about a
Alford — Another one to rave about: a collection of lad who must dance every night to be able to walk,
really funny essays on working at really odd jobs or and who perhaps must sacrifice his mobility for the
encountering really odd workers. $10 pb, 1-57322- man he loves. $5.99 pb, 1-56504-946-2, White Wolf.
510-X, Riverhead. Storm Tide by Mel Keegan — Keegan’s previous
thrillers have been a hit: Fortunes of War, Death's Head
and Equinox, and this latest, are unapologetic over-
the-top narratives; here, two men on a cruise in order
to salvage their love find themselves caught up drug-
You Know You're Gay When by Joseph Cohen — smuggling at sea. $12.95 pb, 0-85449-227-5, GMP,
An older title (10/95) of which we’ve sold several LPC / InBook.
hundred; snappy aphorisms with a ring of truth. $9.95 *Unholy Ghosts by Richard Zimler — In despair
cl, 0-8092-3320-7, Contemporary Books. over AIDS, a classical guitar teacher moves from New
*Patriarchy’s Nightmare by Rick Jacobsen — York to Portugal, only to find that the disease has
This is a cash-register countertop oddity, a deft parody followed: his prize student tests positive. To buck him
of those Jesus-will-save-you hate-tract comics often up, he takes him to Paris to prepare him for a concert
peddled by the fundies; again, A Different Light has career, and the trip — with the lad’s stonemason father,
sold hundreds. $1.25, no ISBN, RJ, available only from is a healing and often witty and moving adventure.
Alamo Square. $14.95 pb, 0-85449-233-X, GMP, LPC /InBook.
*The Unofficial Gay Manual by Kevin Dillalo and *Young Men at War by Noel Currer-Briggs —
Jack Krumholtz — And this is the gay humour prize Based on a true experience, this tale of love across
winner, a how-to-be-gay energizer bunny of a book, of borders — a young British aristocrat in love with a
which A Different Light has sold, in all its stores, close German officer in WWII — is fascinating history and
to 5,000 copies; it still sells about 100 copies a month a ripping good love story. $14.95 pb, 0-85449-236-4,
combined, and it’s been out for two years. $12.95 pb, GMP, LPC /InBook.
0-385-47445-8, Bantam Doubleday Dell. . *For a Lost Soldier by Rudi van Dantzig —
Rush Limbaugh Is a Big Fat Idiot by Al Franken Another true tale, told from the adult perspective of a
— Watch for the paper edition of this book; not par- young man who fell in love with a Canadian soldier
ticularly gay, or feminist, but definitely on the side of who liberated his small Dutch town near the end of
the angels, and it struck a chord with our customers. WWII. $14.95 pb, 0-85449-237-2, GMP, LPC /InBook.
$21.95 cl, 0-385-31474-4, Bantam Doubleday Dell. Hunting With Diana by David Watmough —
This eleventh novel by Canadian author Watmough
FICTION
*Men on Men 6 edited by David Bergman — The HELLO, PERSONNEL? |
first four in this series of excellent anthologies were AFFIRMATIVE. AM IREER AAN ALFERSICBAINAN
e g ed ia gli vt he a td n i zb e ey d stt hh ee rala n gt t me h o nG lo e go cyr g re b io S o dt m a om nob fo tl i hta en h , e rw p aa dh s io t ts ie os ne s v t e wa nn td hoar rd ACTION Yes, OF W F WC E U OO L RH LU KNA VR LE D AS I V CE A EE! R S .E W QUH ICKE E /LCHAIR..
y ar ; B e a a r e t i P
number five — and together they have sold about
200,000 copies. $12.95 pb, 0-452-27708-6, Plume.
*Best American Gay Fiction 1996 edited by Brian
Bouldrey — Think of this as a sampler of really good
gay writing, drawn by a persistent editor from main-
stream and alternative magazines, excerpts from Artist: Ann Glover, from The Homo Handbook
novels and other sources. If you've got limited room (Fireside Books)
79 November /December 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
features, as always, his literary alter ego Davey Bryant, Original Color by Hugh Kennedy — The
an aging gay man who surfs the Internet while his cut-throat world of art dealers is the setting for a first
lover (of 40 years, a fact and part of the fiction) sleeps. novel described as a hybrid of The Mysteries of Pitts-
Think of him as a male Jane Rule: he’s that good. $14.95 burgh and The Bonfire of the Vanities. $21.95 cl,
pb, 1-55152-032-X, Arsenal Pulp Press, LPC/InBook. 0-385-47736-8, Doubleday.
*Sons of Darkness edited by Michael Rowe and *Gary in Your Pocket: Stories & Notebooks by
Thomas Roche — Men and women both in this Gary Fisher edited by Eve Kosofsky Sedgwick — Says
co-gendered followup to Daughters of Darkness. $12.95 the publisher: “The incandescent African American
pb, 1-57344-059-0, Cleis, LPC /InBook. writer Gary Fisher was completely unpublished when
*Does Freddy Dance by Dick Scanlan — Paper he died of AIDS at age 32. This book...will introduce
edition of tales spanning 30 years in a gay man’s life, readers to a tender, graphic, extravagant and unswerv-
sweet and romantic and, a rare thing, mature. $9.95 ingly incisive talent.” $14.95 pb, 0-8223-1799-0, Duke.
pb, 1-55583-386-1, Alyson. *Pagan’s Father by Michael Arditi — What
*2nd Time Around by James Earl Hardy — New makes a father? Biology? Law? Love? That’s the gist
novel from the author of B-Boy Blues, one of the best- of this excellent British novel about a gay man who
selling Alyson books of all time, seriously sexy and inherits five-year-old Pagan when her mother dies
fiercely funny and Black-on-Black. $11.95 pb, 1-55583- suddenly. Excellent fiction, but also a fine fit for a
372-1, Alyson. parenting section. $24 cl, 1-56947-062-6, SoHo.
*Chain of Fools by Richard Stevenson — *Dream Boy by Jim Grimsley — Painful first love
Albany, New York’s only gay private eye, Donald between two teens, one who knows he’s gay and
Strachey, is called to the bedside of his own lover’s another who’s not yet sure, written in a memorable,
high school beau as tempers flair during a family taut and haunting Southern voice. $11 pb, 0-684-
feud over control of a family-owned newspaper. A 82992-4, January, Simon & Schuster.
guarantee: Stevenson's quiet humor and brisk style Winter Birds by Jim Grimsley — His highly-
are captivating. $20.95 cl, 0-312-14563-2, St. Martin’s. praised debut novel, about a young boy trapped
*Death Trick by Richard Stevenson — New between his father’s rage and his mother’s anguish.
paper edition of an earlier well-crafted story featuring $11 pb, 0-684-82991-6, Simon & Schuster.
Donald Strachey, called in to clear a young gay activist *The Promise of Rest by Reynolds Price — Paper
of murder. $9.95 pb, 1-55583-387-X, Alyson. edition of an extraordinary novel by one of this coun-
Forth Into Light by Gordon Merrick — The slew try’s best writers, about a man confronting old age, his
of Merrick novels which best-sold (not really a word; son's AIDS and his regrets over the lost chance for the
sorry) through the 1960s to the mid-1980s are com- love he really wanted. $13 pb, 0-684-82510-4, Scribner.
ing back into print. Awful books, really, but *The Death of Friends by Michael Nava — The
immensely popular, especially for younger readers fifth of Nava’s Henry Rios novels is strong and elo-
getting their queer-lit feet wet. This is the third of a quent; an excellent mystery, with the bonus of being a
classic trilogy, after The Lord Won’t Mind (1-55583- searing examination of self-hatred, hidden lives, the
290-3) and One For the Gods (-291-1), all $9.95 pb, cost of lives and the pain of death. $21.95 cl, 0-399-
(Alyson, -292-X). 13977-X, Berkley.
*Dhalgren by Samuel R. Delany — Probably the
richest, densest, queerest-before-its-time SF novel
ever, back in print after far too long. The plot's impos-
sible to distill: but it’s a book which tackles the
*Little Men by Kevin Killian — Hovers, says the conflicts between and the intersections of gay and
author, between searingly humorous fiction and self- straight, Black and white, women and men, madness
effacing autobiography. Think pop culture gone awry, and sanity. Introduction by William Gibson. $17.95
and know that the author has contributed to Sally pb, 0-8195-6299-8, Wesleyan University Press.
Field’s official fan-club newsletter. $12.95 pb, *Trouble on Triton by Samuel R. Delany —
1-889097-01-2, Hard Press, Consortium. Published back in 1976 as Triton, this looser and less
November /December 1996 80
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
f z a
intense tale tackles gender roles and sexual expecta- G
tions with a deft touch. SF section, or maybe Gender
studies...introduction by Kathy Acker. $14.95 pb, TI'UMR KSEOYR R BYA, S TYEORU ACSA N AT SCPLOAUISMA L T HDEE D )UCTION,
0-8195-6298-X, Wesleyan University Press.
Three Plays by Mart Crowley — The Boys in the
Band is/are back, off-Broadway in New York and else-
where; and here is the text of that landmark play, along
with two other works and a new introduction by
Crowley. $11.95 pb, 1-55583-357-8, Alyson.
Hell Has No Limits by Jose Donoso — For your
Spanish-interest sections, a re-issue of a 1966 Chilean
novel with, as a primary character, a sympathetic Artist: Ann Glover, from The Homo Handbook
transvestite dancer/prostitute. $10.95 pb, 1-55713- (Fireside Books)
187-2, Sun & Moon.
*Captain Swing by Larry Duplechan — New The New Gay Book of Lists by Leigh Rutledge
cover for a fine old novel (well, late 1980s) featuring — New edition of an Alyson classic, and a clever
gay African American Johnnie Ray Rousseau, who is combination of trivial facts and important matters.
funny and smart as he comes “out” into the world. $11.95 pb, 1-55583-359-4, Alyson.
$9.95 pb, 1-55583-361-6, Alyson. The Day We Met by Jack Hart — True stories, in
Nature in the Raw: Erotic Stories from Freshmen the tradition of this author's My First O and My First
Magazine edited by Gerry Kroll — The writing’s Time, by men describing the erotic heat of first-time
erratic, but if you're a store with a section of vanilla gay romantic and sexual encounters. $11.95 pb, 1-55583-
male erotica, you can't go wrong with this collection of 352-7, Alyson.
sex under the sun. $11.95 pb, 1-55583-363-2, Alyson. The Alyson Almanac: The Gay and Lesbian
*Go the Way Your Blood Beats: An Anthology Fact Book edited by Gerry Kroll — An updated
of Gay and Lesbian Literary Writing edited by edition of one of Alyson’s featuring plenty of new
Shawn Stewart Ruff — Half the 32 entries in this facts, plus a comprehensive guide to on-line serv-
mixed-gender mixed-genre collection are original, ices; a must for any reference section. $11.95 pb,
and it’s a must for any progressive store. $16.95 pb, 1-55583-390-X, February, Alyson.
0-8050-4437-X; $30 cl, -4736-0, Holt/Owl. Wonder Bread & Ecstasy: The Life and Death of
*Daddy’s Wedding by Michael Willhoite — Joey Stefano by Charles Isherwood — Life story of one
Phooey to the Defense of Marriage Act: here’s a win- of gay America’s most lusted-after porn stars, done in
ning follow-up to the controversial kid’s book Daddy's by drugs and despair. $11.95 pb, 1-55583-383-7, Alyson.
Roommate. $15.95 cl, 1-55583-350-0, Alyson. *Coming Out While Staying In by Leanne
McCall Tigert — Staying in the church, that is, and this
NON-FICTION collection tells the story of women and men, gay and
Strength in Numbers: A Lesbian, Gay & lesbian and bi, who have chosen to do so. $14.95 pb,
Bisexual Resource — From Visible Ink, which special- 0-8298-1150-8, United Church Press.
izes in often prosaic reference books, this is more than The Sexuality of Jesus by William E. Phipps —
just a directory; as the publisher claims, it’s also a call Twenty-five years ago, the author asked in a controver-
to political and social action; not just lists of facts, but sial book, “was Jesus married?” Here he deals with
biographical sketches too, the faces behind the names. sexuality and faith, especially how the church's attitude
$16.95, 0-7876-0881-5, Visible Ink. towards sexuality has shifted so dramatically over the
*Love Between Men by Rik Isensee — A book centuries. $16.95 pb, 0-8298-1144-3, Pilgrim Press.
about, as the subtitle says, enhancing intimacy and Gay and Gaia: Ethics, Ecology and the Erotic by
keeping your relationships alive. It’s a reprint from a Daniel T. Spencer — In several words: liberationist
few years ago, but psychotherapist Isensee’s sugges- theory, environmental concern and gay passions are
tions are timeless. $12.95 pb, 1-55583-362-4, Alyson. brought together by the author in a plea for gay and
81 November /December 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
lesbian and straight and bisexual and transgendered culture is in danger of being assimilated out of exist-
to “reject a human-centered worldview in favor of an ence. $24.95 cl, 0-7868-6165-7, Hyperion.
ecocentric worldview.” $19.95 pb, 0-8298-1149-4, *The Mythology of Transgression: Homosexu-
Pilgrim Press. ality as Metaphor by Jamake Highwater — A
*Farm Boys: Lives of Gay Men from the Rural renowned Native American writer on myth and spiri-
Midwest by Will Fellows — Just what the title says: tuality uses his own queerness as a starting point for
interviews which demonstrate, with plain-spoken a spirited discussion of how our culture both disdains
directness, that queerness is not just a big-city thing. and depends on “the outsider.” $23 cl, 0-19-510180-4,
More than three dozen men, ages 24 to 84, tell their Oxford University Press.
tales; and the publisher is sending editor Fellows on a *Islamic Homosexualities: Culture, History and
30-city tour, impressive stuff from a university press. Literature edited by Stephen O. Murray and Will
$27.50 cl, 0-299-15080-1, University of Wisconsin. Roscoe — A collection of anthropological and socio-
*Reclaiming the Heartland: Lesbian and Gay logical writing demonstrating that patterns of male
Voices from the Midwest edited by Karen Lee and female homosexuality have long existed and
Osborne and William J. Spurlin — In the same vein, often flourished in the Islamic world. $19.95 pb,
another university press book offers a look (through 0-8147-7468-7, January, New York University Press.
fiction, poetry, memoir, essays, photos) at the lives of *A Queer World: The Center for Lesbian and
both lesbians and gay men who were born, grew up Gay Studies Reader edited by Martin Duberman —
and live in the geographical Middle America. Adver- A 600-page compilation of lectures, panels, discus-
tised in the Feminist Bookstore Network’s Fall Catalog. sions and papers that have passed through the portals
$18.95 cl, 0-8166-2754-1, University of Minnesota. of the five-year-old Center for Lesbian and Gay
*Out Our Way by Michael Riordon — And with Studies (CLAGS), focusing on the social sciences and
three books on rural gay life, it must be a trend: issues relating to public policy. $24.95 pb, 0-8147-
covering primarily Canada but with a few interviews 1875-2, January, New York University Press.
from the U.S., this is a splendidly-written look at the *Queer Representations: Reading Lives, Read-
lives of gay men who have chosen the rural life over ing Cultures edited by Martin Duberman — from
the urban way, written by a long-time Canadian activ- CLAGS, but with a more literary bent, this collection
ist. $16.95 pb, 1-8963-5705-9, Between the Lines, (Dorothy Allison, Edmund White, Essex Hemphill,
Alamo Square Press. Jewelle Gomez, Samuel R. Delany, Joan Nestle, many
more) emphasizes the interconnectedness of lesbian
and gay lives and their literatures. $22.95 pb, 0-8147-
1884-1, January, New York University Press.
*Dancing Around the Volcano: Freeing Our
*Out & About USA Resorts & Warm Weather Erotic Lives, Decoding the Enigma of Gay Men and
Vacations by Billy Kolber and David Alpert — Used Sex by Guy Kettlehack — A passionately pro-sex book
to be, everything you could find out about lesbian and which, through interview, anecdote and analysis,
gay travel was in Bob Damron’s, Ferrari’s, the looks at the sorts of sex gay men are really having. $25
Gayellow Pages or the old Gaia’s guides. Now there cl, 0-517-70103-0, Crown.
are shelves-full of national, regional and specialized *Perfect Enemies: The Religious Right, the
guides, including this first in a series from Out & About Gay Movement and The Politics of the 1990s by
magazine, featuring “the hottest” gay destinations. Christopher Bull and John Gallagher — A good sub-
$14.95 pb, 0-7868-8177-1, January, Hyperion. title says a lot about a book; this is a useful analysis
London Scene 1997 — Indispensable gay male of why our community is too often on the defensive.
guide. $11.95 pb, 0-85449-229-1, GMP, LPC /InBook. $25 cl, 0-517-70198-7, Crown.
The Rise and Fall of Gay Culture by Daniel Tom: The Unknown Tennessee Williams by
Harris — Hmmm. Could this be a neocon look at Lyle Loverich — Paper edition of a definitive
homosexual culture? Essayist Harris contends, it account of the playwright’s early years. $18 pb,
seems, if catalogue copy is to be believed, that gay 0-517-88772-X, Crown.
November /December 1996 82
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
*Much More Than Sexuality: Listening to 70 $17.95 pb, 0-304-33324-7, Cassell, LPC /InBook.
Gay People Talk About Their Lives compiled and Gay Phrase Book (2nd Edition) by Barry McKay
edited by Liz Sherblom and Hohn Sherblom — Aimed — Japanese has been added to the French, German,
as much at the parents of gays and at non-gay youth Spanish, Italian, Dutch and Portuguese in this handy
as it is at those wrestling with coming out, this collec- compendium of useful homophrases — all the words
tion of autobiography is a great addition to the coming you need for a gay holiday. $12.95 pb, 0-304-33775-7,
out shelves. $13 pb, 1-879418-90-8, Audenreed Press, Cassell, LPC /InBook.
LPC/InBook.
Essays on Kushner’s Angels by Per Brask —
Directors, dramaturges, poets and playwrights from For now, major publishers,
the U.S., Canada, Germany, Denmark and Australia academic houses and
discuss and dissect one of the great gay plays. $14.95
pb, 0-921368-577, Blizzard Publishing, LPC /InBook. university presses must all
*Policing Public Sex edited by Dangerous Bed-
fellows — A group of New York-based activists call for be profiting from the
a new activism that refuses to sacrifice queer culture
and sexuality on the altar of...moralistic hysteria.” $16 lesbian and gay titles
pb, 0 - *8 B9 i6 0 M8- e5 n4 ’9 s - X L, i v eS so :u t Bh i s eE xn ud a l P Mre es ns , T L eP llC T / hI en iB r o o Tk a. les they've published
edited by Mark Zepezauer — Several dozen men from in the past few years.
their 20s into their 50s, from widely different class and
cultural backgrounds, from several different coun- *Between the Sheets: Sex Diaries and Gay
tries, discuss bisexuality as a range of behavior and a Men’s Sex in the Era of AIDS by Antony Coxon —
way of life. $16.95 pb, 1-884365-11-6, See Sharp Press, Based on new data extrapolated from more than 1,000
LPC /InBook. sexual diaries, this book portrays the reality of gay sex
in relation to the transmission of HIV. $17.95 pb, 0-304-
33208-9, December, Cassell, LPC /InBook.
*We Are Family: Queer Parents Tell Their
Stories by Turan Ali with Catherine Treasure — An
*We Must Love One Another or Die: Larry engrossing (and British) look at the lives of lesbians
Kramer, His Life and Legacy by Lawrence D. Mass — and gay men who are parents, exploring such topics
Christopher Bram, Kate Clinton, John D’'Emilio, as what to tell the children, what to tell the neighbors
Michael Denneny, Patrick Merla, Urvashi Vaid, Rosa and what kids think of their queer parents. $17.95 pb,
von Praunheim, among others, assess the life activist, 0-304-33148-1, December, Cassell, LPC /InBook.
polemicist, novelist, film producer, scriptwriter and *Antigay: Homosexuality and Its Discontents
person-with-AIDS, Kramer. $23 cl, 0-304-33545-2, edited by Mark Simpson — Bruce La Bruce, John Weir,
December, Cassell, LPC /InBook. Glennda Orgasm and others of a post-PC ilk take off
*Cassell’s Encyclopedia of Queer Myth, Symbol the gloves, and the rose-tinted glasses, to take aim at
and Spirit by Randy P. Conner — Same-sex desire, the AIDS sanctimony and other issues too seldom dis-
sacred and gender variance are the themes of this cussed in polite pink society. $16.95 cl, 0-304-33144-9,
320-page co-gender, cross-cultural and across-the- December, Cassell, LPC /InBook.
ages reference, as readable as an almanac and as Robert Duncan in San Francisco by Michael
researched as an encyclopedia. By the author of Blos- Rumaker — Here’s a truly unique book: published
som of Bone. $21.95 cl, 0-304-33760-9, December, in the 1990s, 20 years after it was written by
Cassell, LPC /InBook. : Rumaker, about events that took place 20 years pre-
Gay Skins: Class, Masculinity and Queer viously, when Duncan and Rumaker and Jack Spicer
Appropriation by Murray Healy — A look at the and Allen Ginsberg were all a lot younger. $8.95 pb,
world of the skinhead, deconstructively speaking. 0-912516-13-5, Grey Fox, BP.
83 November /December 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Accepting Ourselves & Others: A Journey Into Dorothy Dean, who rarely identified with either other
Recovery From Addictive and Compulsive Behavior women or other Blacks, but surrounded herself with
for Gays, Lesbians and Bisexuals by Sheppard B. white gay men. $21 cl, 0-374-29205-1, FSG.
Kominars and Kathryn Kominars — A gay father and *Out in Force: Sexual Orientation and the Mili-
his daughter, both psychologists, examine recovery as tary edited by Gregory Herek, Jared Jobe and Ralph
it affects the queer community; this is a highly revised Carney — Refuting the notion that gayness and the
edition of the book Accepting Ourselves, published in military are incompatible, this study of the issue from
1989. $18.95 pb, 1-56838-120-4, Hazelden. a social science perspective aims to keep the issue of
A Crisis of Meaning: How Gay Men Are gays in the services alive. $17.95, 0-226-40048-4,
Making Sense of AIDS by Steven S. Schwartzberg — University of Chicago.
Drawing on in-depth interviews with 19 gay men
with AIDS, the author shows how some triumph emo-
tionally, and some do not, and then offers guidance for s
all. $25, 0-19-509627-4, Oxford University Press.
My Life With Noel Coward by Graham Payne The Good Book by Peter J. Gomes — Harvard’s
with Barry Day — Paper edition of a lively remem- minister reads the Bible without blinkers and sug-
brance by Coward’s long-time companion, an intimate gests that it does not exclude lesbians and gays, or
but discreet book. $16.95 pb, 1-55783-247-1, Applause. women, or people of color — all those the religious
*The Gay Agenda: Talking Back to the bigots claim the good book gives them the right to cast
Fundamentalists by Jack Nichols — Long-time out. $25 cl, 0-688-13447-5, Morrow.
activist Nichols (he co-founded the Mattachine Soci- *The Rights of People Who Are HIV Positive by
ety of Washington) sets the fundies on the run in this William Rubenstein, Ruth Eisenberg and Lawrence
examination of their hysteria, their hypocrisy and Gostin — One in a series of excellent legal-rights
their own “hidden agenda.” $24.95 cl, 1-57393-103-3, guides produced by the ACLU and pitched at the
Prometheus. layperson. $13.95 pb, 0-8093-1992-6, December,
The Masculine Marine: Homoeroticism in the Southern Illinois University Press.
U.S. Marine Corps by Steven Zeeland — Records *The Rights of Families by Martin Guggenheim,
what active-duty Marines have to say about being a Alexandra Dylan Lowe and Diane Curtis — Ditto;
man, being a Marine and desiring other men, and includes section on adoptive, single-parents and gay
examines why the hyper-masculine Marine is such a and lesbian parents. $8.95 pb, 0-8093-2052-5, Southern
staple of gay fantasy. $14.95 pb, 1-56023-874-7, Illinois University Press.
Harrington Park. *Life Is Not a Rehearsal by David Brudnoy —
Against My Better Judgment: An Intimate We are everywhere; here, we are a conservative
Memoir of an Eminent Gay Psychologist by Roger Boston radio talkshow host who kept his job and his
Brown — It reads like a novel, is a model of self-analy- following after he “came out,” at age 54, as both gay
sis, and tells what tantalizes a 65-to-70-year-old gay and a person with AIDS. $22.95 cl, 0-385-48276-0,
man after his lover of more than 40 years has died. January, Doubleday.
$17.95 pb, 1-56023-888-7, Harrington. Science and Other Homosexualities edited by
*True Selves: Understanding Transsexualism Vernon Rosario — The first anthology by historians of
for Families, Friends, Coworkers and Helping science studying European and American research on
Professionals by Mildred L. Brown and Chloe Ann sexual orientation since the coining of the word “homo-
Rounsley — With real life stories, letters, poems and sexual” nearly 150 years ago. $17.95 pb, 0-415-91502-3,
more, this is a first coming-out collection for the TS Routledge.
community. $25 cl, 0-7879-0271-3, Jossey Bass. We Are Everywhere: A Historical Sourcebook for
*The Women by Hilton Als — In four provoca- Gay and Lesbian Politics edited by Mark Blasius and
tive studies, New Yorker and Out Magazine writer Als Shane Phelan — Includes writings from the beginnings
looks at the issues of racial and sexual identity; among of the gay movement (Ulrichs, Hirschfield, Symonds
the portraits — that of brilliant Harvard-educated through ONE, Mattachine, The Ladder, Daughters of
November /December 1996 84
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Bilitis, on to the early days of AIDS, through to current DIFFA and the Pediatric AIDS Foundation. $35 cl,
activism. $24.95 pb, 0-415-90859-0, Routledge. 0-00-255459-3, HarperSan Francisco.
Positive Cooking by Janet Brauer, Lisa McMillan
SPECIAL BONUS COOKBOOK SECTION and Jill Jarvie — On a more serious note, here’s a
Despite all the passion gay men are said to have useful recipe book specifically for people living with
for cooking and dinner parties (to say nothing of that HIV, using sensible nutrition as a way to deal with the
Martha Stewart stuff), there really haven’t been many side effects of medications used to fight HIV. $12.95
gay-specific cookbooks. What makes a sorbet gay, pb, 0-89529-734-5, Avery Publishing, PGW.
anyway? But as I went through several hundred torn-
out catalogue pages to compile this column, I came A trend this year in gay books: there’s a /ot more
across several: non-fiction than fiction so far, as you can see from a
Food For Life and Other Dish edited by Lawrence count of the listings you've just skimmed. My sense
Schimel — A benefit book for organizations around the from past years, and past columns, is that while there
country serving meals to people with AIDS, this one has always been somewhat more non-fiction (there
contains not one but two (or perhaps more) lasagna are many more subject categories, after all), the bal-
recipes (Michael Musto and Tony Kushner), and dozens ance has recently really tipped. What does this mean?
more, from queer and queer-friendly authors. Full dis- Stronger backlist, sales, perhaps — good religion,
closure #1: I have a recipe in it. A meaty one. “I need coming out, parenting, sexual how-to, reference and
meat recipes,” the editor wailed at me. “Everyone’s a queer theory titles tend to sell more steadily than most
vegetarian.” (As is he.) Full disclosure #2: the cover fiction. It also means that, for now, major publishers,
models manage the New York branch of A Different academic houses and university presses must all be
Light, in one case, and clerk in the San Francisco store, profiting from the lesbian and gay titles they've pub-
in the other. $14.95 pb, 1-57344-061-2, Cleis. lished in the past few years.
Cookin’ With Honey: What Literary Lesbians
Eat edited by Amy Scholder — In the tradition of A Different Light Bookstore is preparing a series
M.FK. Fisher, this is as much a collection of mouth- of specialty catalogues to use for outside sales; to date,
watering essays and ruminations on the sensuousness we have one listing more than 100 titles of interest to
of food and the satisfaction of preparing it well, as it educators and librarians (Concerning the Children),
is a recipe book. $13.95 pb, 1-56341-076-1, Firebrand. produced for GLSTN, the Gay and Lesbian Teachers
Network; and two smaller ones, with a couple of
dozen titles each, covering Counseling & Therapy
and Parenting. By year’s end, we'll have two more:
The Law and Us and Queer in the Workplace, each
Queer Street Cookbook by Donna Clark — “With with a couple of dozen titles. If any FBN-reading store
so much disposable income and so few children, queers would like a copy of these, please write to Jim Breeden
are seriously into cuisine,” says this book’s publicist, at 489 Castro Street, SF CA 94114, or e-mail to his
promising recipes with which to bed the baby dyke attention to (adl@adlbooks.com).
spotted at the Girl Bar, with which to prepare homo
hordes for Gay Pride marches or with which to turn off To end: my favorite lesbian title of the past few
the sexual approach of a guy you'd still like to break months is Katherine Forrest's Liberty Square. She’s
friendly bread with. $16.95 pb, 0-304-33812-5, Cassell. continuing the Kate Delafield series started at Naiad,
Feast for Life: Over 100 Celebrities and Chefs and here shifts locale from Los Angeles to Washing-
Share Their Favorite Recipes by Linda Provus ton, where her Delafield is attending a reunion of
Bartlett and Gretchen Sandin Jordan, foreword by Vietnam vets. There are several pleasures to Forrest's
Elizabeth Taylor — Here’s the straight version of Food work, among them the fast pace of her story, the
for Life, featuring recipes from the likes of Diane skilled interweaving of politics and personality, and
Sawyer (roasted potato skins), Harrison Ford (pasta) the evolution, over the years, of Kate’s personal life.
and Karl Lagerfield (apple strudel). Proceeds to $21.95 cl, 0-425-15477-X, Berkley Crime. o
85 November /December 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Éditions Aubrey Walter
beautiful books of gay art & photography
$29.95 order now from:
40 colour plates : LPC Group/ InBook
a 8.7.4 8.2 106, toll free 1 800 243 0138, 1800 626 4330
fax 1 800 334 3892
November /December 1996 86 Volume 19 Number 4
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
By Tee A. Corinne
This is one of those months when it is obvious
that the Women’s Liberation Movement has had a
tremendous impact on the range and number of books
about women artists coming out. This, in turn,
impacts art that is produced in the future, the ways in
which it is made available, and who is seen as the
reading /buying public. Congratulations all!
Canadian Emily Carr (1871-1945) is one of my
favorite artists. Beloved Land: The World of Emily
Carr, introduction by Robin Laurence, is a wonderful
way to get to know this gifted painter and writer who
never married, was perhaps more fond of animals
than people, and did stunning paintings of the British
Columbian landscape and Native sites along the
coast. $17.95 pb, 0-295-97542-3, Douglas & McIntyre
and the University of Washington Press.
Feminism & Contemporary Art: The Revolu-
tionary Power of Women’s Laughter by Jo Anna Isaak
features the work of women artists active, for the most
part, in the last 30 years: Nancy Spero, Mary Kelley,
Lorna Simpson, Hannah Wilke, Kiki Smith and the
Guerrilla Girls. Of special interest is a large section on
Russian women artists. All reproductions are in black
and white. $17.95 pb, 0-415-08015-0, Routledge.
Women, Creativity, and the Arts: Critical and
Autobiographical Perspectives edited by Diane
Apostolos-Cappadona and Lucinda Ebersole is a
fascinating collection of first person accounts by writ-
ers and visual artists including Georgia O'Keefe,
Michele Wallace, Louise Nevelson and Audre Lorde.
$18.95 pb, 0-8264-0831-1, Continuum Books.
Erotic Faculties by Joanna Frueh is a collection of
personal essays by a contemporary performance artist
Self portrait by Dorr Bothwell, from /ndependent Spirits
(University of California Press).
November /December 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Finger-Licking Good: The Ins and Outs of Zuni A:shiwi Publishing. Distributed by University of
Lesbian Sex by Tamsin Wilton, along with a lively New Mexico Press.
discussion of lesbian communities and issues, profiles Jane Bown, Observer, introduction by Andrew
seven artists who have worked with sexual imagery: Billen, is a collection of images by a British photojour-
Della Grace, Kiss and Tell, Laurence Jaugey-Paget and nalist who began chronicling the faces of our times in
me. Subtle and perceptive. $17.95 pb, 0-304-33259-3, the 1950s. These sympathetic, revealing portraits
Cassell. Distributed by LPC. engage whether you recognize the subjects (Yoko
A complex and interesting book, A Question of Ono, Kate Millett, Ella Fitzgerald, Sinead O'Connor)
Balance: Artists and Writers on Motherhood edited or not. $19.95 pb, 0-500-27891-1, Thames and Hudson.
by Judith Pierce Rosenberg, includes interviews with Distributed by W.W. Norton.
writers and artists including sculptors Linda Vallejo,
Alison Saar, Roxanne Swentzell, photographer Bea
Nettles, painters Karen Horn, Elizabeth Murray, Faith
Ringgold, May Stevens, illustrator Trina Schart
Hyman and collage artist Betye Saar. $14 pb, 0-918949-
53-X; $25 cl, 0-918949-54-8, Papier-Mache Press. Susie Cooper: An Elegant Affair by Bryn Youds
Distributed by LPC. features plates, jugs, tea and coffee sets, and more
In Dialogues with Zuni Potters, Milford Naho- produced from the 1920s on by a British ceramist
hai and Elisa Phelps combine interviews with (1902-1995) who achieved commercial success in
wonderful pictures of contemporary Native Ameri- England and the U.S. $24.95 pb, 0-500-27888-1,
can potters (often shown at work) and their pots, Thames and Hudson. Distributed by W.W. Norton.
bowls and animal forms. Most of the potters are Earth, Spirit and Gender: Visual Language for
women. $19.95 pb, 0-9641401-3-6; $45 cl, 0-9641401-2-8, the New Reality by Kyra Belán records the explora-
tions of an American artist of Argentine heritage.
Chapters include: “The Issue of Gender-Identified
Art,” “The Face of Mother God,” “The Female Gaze
and the Male Nude,” “Earth, Nature and the Eco-
Feminist Vision” and “The Artist as Shaman.” $27 pb,
en warea $ o Ef d i tP hh o St .o g Wra ap th soer n 0 in-8 g2 ; 8 1 8- 00 08 -3 25 4- 28 -, 8 7 A 86m .erican Heritage Custom Publish-
Frances Rooney Tappe rC te c pil ri ea s eB ne ta su x t h a en d w ot rh ke oA fr t a o pf a i nP to er rt r a oi ft u r te h e b y A m T ea rr ia -
i Newf F oro um n dou latp nor dt to can upper class (1855—1942), still active into the 1920s,
the Queen but best known for her dignified and elegant pictures
Charlotte Islands of men and women in formal attire. $29.95 pb,
Edith Watson 1-56098-658-1, Smithsonian Institute Press.
captured images Olympic Portraits by Annie Leibovitz is an
people in the pr P ec ao rf io ua sb ,outing extraordinary collection of black and white photo-
graphs of athletes in motion and repose. $29.95 cl,
CLA R pLEoTiOgNn a onft ,b u ioldfitnegn a gcoruunetrllyi.n gH er act 0-8212-2366-6, Little, Brown.
UNIMAJ SHBA Pictures are recognizable and Reframings: New American Feminist Photogra-
PRE :S S C ac no am dp a'e sl l i nn ag t i ot na ali ls m pa sn ys c h eo f and phies edited by Diane Neumaier, foreward by Anne
PI a social history that i s m uv ce hr y alive. W tui al lk , e s m uT lu tc i-k ce ur l, t u i rs a l a / l mav ui ls th i-ly et h p nr io c d u cc ee led b, r ah ti ig oh nl y o f i n tt hel elec-
Format 9"x 12", paper scruffy-grunge school of contemporary photography.
Tel. (613)520-3740 ISBN 0-88629-273-5 $35.95 $49.95 cl, 1-56639-331-0, Temple University Press.
lax. (613)520-2893 WOMEN’S EXPERIENCE SERIES #8 Secrets, Dialogues, Revelations: The Art of
email: jsloan@ccs.carleton.ca Order our catalogue today Betye and Alison Saar with essays and interviews by
November /December 1996 88
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Lucy R. Lippard, Ishmael Reed and Judith Wilson, theory, and art criticism” to broaden the under-
“examines the shared experience of two Black women, standing of Vigée-Lebrun’s success. $40 cl,
two artists, two mothers, and their very special rela- 0-226-75275-5, University of Chicago Press.
tionship” with each other as mother and daughter. Imogen Cunningham: Flora by Richard Lorenz
$30 pb, spiral bound, 0-943739-14-4, Wight Art Gal- is a lush, gorgeous book of black and white (and some
lery. Distributed by University of Washington Press. color) photographs by one of the pioneers in the tran-
Nampeyo and Her Pottery by Barbara Kramer is sition from soft focus to sharply defined images which
an engaging, informative biography of the famous took place in the 1920s. Cunningham (1883-1976)
Hopi-Tewa potter (1860-1942) who is credited with spent most of her adult life in the San Francisco Bay
revitalizing Hopi pottery “by creating a contemporary Area and her images reflect the range of plant forms
style inspired by prehistoric ceramics.” $39.95 cl, which thrive in that moderate climate. $45 cl, 0-8212-
0-8263-1718-9, University of New Mexico Press. 2221-X, Bulfinch / Little, Brown.
Tapestries of Hope, Threads of Love: The
Arpillera Movement in Chile, 1975-1994 by Marjorie
Agosín is probably priced too high for the slimness of
the volume (142 pages), but the art work is so moving,
and the interviews so compelling, that, once opened,
it is difficult to put it down. $39.95 pb, 0-8263-1692-1; Mbuti Design: Paintings by Pygmy Women of
$70 cl, 0-8263-1691-3, University of New Mexico Press. the Ituri Forest by Georges Meurant and Robert Farris
Independent Spirits: Women Painters of the Thompson is a scholarly study, handsomely pro-
American West, 1890-1945 edited by Patricia Trenton duced, of geometric designs painted on cloth and on
takes a regional focus in celebrating the work of a bodies. $60 cl, 0-500-97430-6, Thames and Hudson.
variety of artists who worked outside of the Paris/New Distributed by W. W. Norton.
York mainstream. With its intermixing of solid text, Barbara Hepworth: A Pictorial Autobiography
documentary photographs and lush color prints, it is a by David Fraser Jenkins is once again available.
striking resource and a delightful gift book. $29.95 pb, Hepworth (1903-1975), British, paved the way for
0-520-20203-1; $60 cl, 0-520-20202-3, Autry Museum of women sculptors to tackle large scale commissions
Western Heritage/University of California Press. Dis- and abstract work. $22.95 pb, 0-295-96768-4, Tate
tributed by University of California Press. Gallery. Distributed in the U.S. only by University of
Vivir La Muerte: Rituals of Death in Latin Washington Press.
America by Bastienne Schmidt, introduction by New distributor: At Century’s End: Norwegian
Edward Sullivan, is a collection of intense, black and Artists and the Figurative Tradition, 1880/1990 by
white photographs by a contemporary German Susan Fisher Sterling, Anne Wichstrøm and Toril Smit,
woman who spent five years documenting the ritual previously reviewed here as “a rich and fascinating
surrounding death in Peru, Columbia, Guatemala, book which gives up ways of understanding how
Mexico, Cuba and Brazil. $39.95 cl, 3-905514-73-7, women artists have supported one another.” $28.95
Edition Stemmie. Distributed by Distributed Art pb, 0-940979-32-2; $50 cl, 1-55553-288-8, The National
Publishers, 636 Broadway, New York NY 10012. Museum of Women in the Arts. Distributed by North-
eastern University Press.
And finally, Forbidden Fires by Margaret C.
Anderson, edited by Mathilda M. Hills deserves art
attention for two reasons. First, the 97 photographs —
most of which have never been published before
The Exceptional Woman: Elisabeth Vigée- — show a creative circle of lesbian friends. Further,
Lebrun and the Cultural Politics of Art by Mary D. Margaret Anderson’s first major lover, Jane Heap,
Sheriff is a detailed study of a famous French portrait trained at the Chicago Art Institute in the 19-teens and
painter (1755-1842). The author utilizes “philosophy ran aninfluential avant-garde gallery in New York City
as well as modern feminism, psychoanalysis, literary in the 1920s. $21.95 cl, 1-56280-123-6, Naiad Press. O
89 November /December 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Angela Davis Maria Jimenez
Gloria Steinem Mililani Trask
Feminist Family Values Forum
Order now for delivery mid-September 1996
On May 10,1996 the Foundation for a Compassionate Society invited
these women to speak on family values from a feminist point of view.
A common thread in the presentations was that social change is
necessary in order to allow all humans to thrive. Let's begin, as this
year's presidential campaigns gear up, to spark public discussion
about values beyond right wing definitions of family.
Produced by Plain View Press in collaboration with the Foundation for a Compassionate
Society, the book will be available in September, 1996. A 50% discount will be given to
bookstores that order directly from: the Foundation for a Compassionate Society: 1711
South Congress Ave., Austin, TX 78704, (512) 473-8335 or FAX (512) 472-1043. Or
contact: Plain View Press P.O. BOX 33311, Austin, TX 78764, voice or FAX (512) 441-2452,
e-mail sbpvp@eden.com. Also available through Plain View Press from Baker and Taylor.
ISBN:0-911051-86-4. $15.95p, 160 pgs.
November /December 1996 90 Volume 19 Number 4
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Compiled by Jenn Tust serves as a testament to the strength and commit-
ment to a multicultural state of these Bosnian,
ASTARTE SHELL PRESS Croatian and Serbian women of all religions, ages
Celebrating Ourselves, a crone ritual book first and ethnic backgrounds. Designed as a replication
published in 1992, was mentioned by Laura Weltner of the original handmade book (of which only 80
in her syndicated column. She had attended a croning were produced during wartime) the memoirs ap-
ceremony and learned of the book depicting the ritual. pear in the original Serbo-Croatian, along with
She mentioned it and us, and for the last nine months English, Spanish and Italian translations. $22.50 cl,
orders from Pennsylvania, Texas, Ohio, Massachu- 1-879960-46-X.
setts and Indiana have flowed in as the local papers Grassroots: A Multicultural Reader edited by
picked up the column and/or wrote their own ver- Aunt Lute. As a multicultural women’s press, Aunt
sion. The Des Moines paper, for instance, ran a Lute has been committed to publishing the words of
full-page spread, which USA Today and then CNN women from an extraordinary range of personal,
picked up. Oh for the joys of a syndicated column on political and cultural histories. Grassroots brings
all our books! together some of our most highly acclaimed essays
Another great asset for a publisher is an author and stories about identity, survival and celebration
with charm, hutzpah and energy. Such an author creating a sampler of the most vibrant voices in litera-
generates lists and contacts for the publisher, reaches ture today. It includes works by Paula Gunn Allen,
out to bookstores herself, and initiates interviews Gloria Anzaldúa, Kleya Forte-Escamilla and Jyl Lynn
and readings. This is what Toke Hoppenbrouwers, Felman. $7.95 pb, 1-879960-49-4.
author of Autumn Sea, has been doing. As a result,
she has been largely responsible for generating sales
of half the run in six months, even though she is a
first-time novelist. For a small press, with one per-
son responsible for all the marketing, such an author
is a godsend.
Astarte Shell Press, PO Box 3648, Portland ME
04104; 207-828-1992, 800-329-0941. Distributed by
Koen, LPC /InBook. —Astarte Shell Press
AUNT LUTE BOOKS
I Remember: Writings by Bosnian Women
Refugees edited by Radmila Manojlovic is a collec-
tion of short memoirs written by Bosnian women
refugees and accompanied by their drawings. It
91
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Aunt Lute’s 16-month weekly planner, Imagery: Network's Fall Catalog. $15 pb, 0-912932-15-5; $25 cl,
Women Writers, features remarkable portraits by -16-3. Booklegger discounts 1—4 titles at 20%, 5—9 at
talented photographer Jean Weisinger and inspiring 30%, 10+ at 40%. Carton quantities of the same title:
words from 33 writers including Audre Lorde, 50%. All orders are freight free! Booklegger Publish-
Chrystos, Angela Davis and Cherríe Moraga. $13.95 ing, PO Box 460654, San Francisco CA 94146;
spiral, 1-879960-48-6. 415-642-7569. Distributed by Alamo Square, BP and
Aunt Lute Books, PO Box 410687, San Francisco by Marginal in Canada. —Booklegger Publishing
` CBAP 9.4 14 1S; P41D5-8.2 6 -1—300A. Duistnribtu te dL buy t Ceon s orBtiuomo,ks CALYX BOOKS
Present Tense: Writing and Art by Young Women
edited by the Calyx Young Women’s Editorial Collec-
tive (Micki Reaman et al.). This groundbreaking
BOOKLEGGER PUBLISHING anthology of vibrant work by a new generation of
Booklegger Publishing has acquired the rights writers and artists — the 20th anniversary special issue
from Cleis Press to Celeste West's bestselling Lesbian of Calyx Journal (Summer 1996) — is now being
Love Advisor in order to market it with West's new released as a book. Edited by a group of young editors
Lesbian Polyfidelity: How to Keep Nonmonogamy and writers, Present Tense is “multicultural,”
Safe, Sane, Honest, & Laughing, You Rogue! and her “post-industrial,” “chick lit” — always, it is utterly
other titles. Booklegger also distributes poet/ contemporary. “Sistas, you sing, make my spine
philosopher Elsa Gidlow’s autobiography Elsa: I Come shiver: what you know, I know — the diaspora of your
with My Songs and her collected poetry Sapphic Songs lives crystallizing in words, the pissed-off frantic sweet
as well as her other books and audio tapes. Lesbian lyric that resounds for all of us here in the present
Polyfidelity is advertised in the Feminist Bookstore tense. My thanks to you.” —Lois-Ann Yamanaka.
INFO THE
by Jean Hegland
the Bully Burgers
November /December 1996 92
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms“What a wonderful birthday present...engrossing writ- Meow-Mories: A Place for Kitten Notes and
ing and art by emerging talent.” —Tee Corinne. “New Cat Fancies by Non-Biological Parents of Fabulous
as only a generation can be new, [Present Tense] casts Felines by Julia Willis, illustrations by Chris
race, class, sexuality, family, community, country in Suddick, is a charming and humorous “baby book”
surprising ways that embrace the past yet speak from in which to record the antics and mark the mile-
the present tense.” —Shirley Geok-lin Lim. $14.95 pb, stones of the fabulous felines in your life, with
0-934971-53-6; $26.95 cl, -54-4, January. Calyx Books, PO plenty of space for photos and momentos. Illus-
Box B, Corvallis OR 97339; 541-753-9384, fax 541-753- trated by cat-loving cartoonist Chris Suddick. Writer
0515. Distributed by Consortium, BP, SPD, Pacific Julia Willis is the author of the very funny Who Wears
Pipeline, Banyan Tree Distribution, Airlift, and other the Tux? The All American Dyke Quiz. Advertised in
small press distributors. — Calyx Books the Feminist Bookstore Network’s Fall Catalog.
$9.95 pb, 1-889594-00-8.
Caffeinated Cartoons: Cartoons about Coffee
and Tea by Stephanie Piro. Hilarious cartoons cele-
JP COMMUNICATIONS brating America’s addiction to coffee and tea by
Jan Phillips, co-founder of the Syracuse Cultural popular cartoonist Stephanie Piro (author of Men!
Workers, co-editor of their annual Women Artists Date- Ha!, Caffeinated Romance, The Caffeinated Workplace,
book: In Praise of the Muse and author of Making Peace: Coffee Snobs, Tea Rebels and much more). Piro’s new
One Woman's Journey Around the World, recently pub- single panel cartoon feature, Fair Game, has just been
lished Born Gay: Images and Reflections of an picked up by Chronicle Features and will be syndi-
Ordinary Lesbian. In chapbook form, this photo- cated to major newpapers starting this fall. Piro’s
graphic chronicle of the author’s life from age 3 to 47 work has been featured in Ms., The Funny Times, Glam-
is a quick and entertaining read. Phillips writes of her our, Women’s Glib and on countless T-shirts and coffee
early crushes on women, outing a straight friend, mugs. $7.95 pb, 0-9632526-9-0.
dismissal from the convent and how she finally comes
into herself, how her family reacts and how she feels
at 47. $8 pb, no ISBN. 40% for 5+. JP Communications,
3226 Petunia Court, San Diego CA 92117; 619-483- Laugh Lines is also advertising Kicking the Habit:
2955, fax 619-483-2959, e-mail (jpfalsh@aol.com).—JT Cartoons about the Catholic Church by Rina Piccolo,
Ellen Orleans’ Who Cares If It's a Choice: Snappy
LAUGH LINES PRESS Answers to 101 Nosy, Intrusive and Highly Personal
Still Can't Keep a Straight Face by Ellen Orleans, Questions about Lesbians and Gay Men and The Butches
illustrations by Noreen Stevens. Ellen Orleans, author of Madison County in the Feminist Bookstore Net-
of the Lammy-winning The Butches of Madison County, work's Fall Catalog.
is back, with a brand-new collection of wickedly All Laugh Lines titles are available directly from
funny essays on topics ranging from lesbian adven- the publisher (PO Box 259, Bala Cynwyd PA 19004 at
ture novels and Olivia Cruises to Ricki Lake and the a 50% discount, prepaid, with no minimum order.
Supreme Court. Ellen’s first three lesbian humor We pay postage on orders of +5). Also available from
books have sold close to 20,000 copies and are still LPC/Womansource, BP, Alamo Square, Koen,
selling steadily. Ellen’s latest take on lesbian life will Bookazine and most other distributors.
be a strong seller as well. $8.95 pb, 1-889594-01-6. —Laugh Lines Press
93 November /December 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
LUNA PRESS Womyn in Community. Topics explored include:
The 97 Lunar Calendar: Dedicated to the womyn’s land, working together, creating culture,
Goddess in Her Many Guises “is like no other, and generations, loving womyn, being outside “the cir-
customers who have never seen it before will be cle” and tools of community. The offerings are
thrilled to find it.” —New Age Retailer. We celebrate the varied, heartfelt and genuine. Advertised in the
21st edition with fresh work from 23 artists, poets and Feminist Bookstore Network’s Fall Catalog. $13.95
writers! Features real lunar months depicted in 13 pb, 0-9510661-8-8. Mother Tongue Ink, PO Box 1395-
graceful spirals, definitive moon data, plus the lunar R, Estacada OR 97023; 503-630-7848. Distributed by
year-at-a-glance, complete instructions and bibliog- BP, Ingram, New Leaf, Pacific Pipeline.
raphy, 32 pages, opens to wall-hanging 11"x 17". Nancy —Mother Tongue Ink
F. W. Passmore, Editor. $20, 1-877920-07-X. Luna Press,
PO Box 15511, Kenmore Station, Boston MA 02215; NAIAD PRESS
617-427-9846. Distributed by BP, Ladyslipper, Moving Well-known for her true-to-life portrayals of the
Books, New Leaf, Samuel Weiser, Small changes, joys and heartbreaks of contemporary lesbian life,
Visionworks and the publisher. —Luna Press Jackie Calhoun paints a frighteningly real portrait of
an obsessed ex-lover in the compelling romance
Love or Money. Calhoun is the author of Lifestyles,
Triple Exposure, Second Chance, Friends and Lovers,
MOTHER TONGUE INK Changes and Sticks and Stones, which is also available
The 16th edition of We’Moon: Gaia Rhythms from Naiad on audio-cassette. $10.95 pb, 1-56280-
for Womyn is ready. An astrological moon calendar, 147-3, December.
appointment book, and daily guide to natural Author of Patience and Sarah, Side By Side, The Love
rhythms for women We’Moon is a multicultural an- of Good Women and A Dooryard Full of Flowers, the
thology of women’s art and writing, as well as a incomparable Isabel Miller is without a doubt one of
primer on living in tune with the earth’s cycles. The the most beloved lesbian novelists of all time. Laurel,
We’Moon has 40 pages of reference material and a passionate account of May-December romance, is
informative articles, making astrology and lunar Miller’s richest, most deeply intimate novel yet.
rhythms accessible to anyone who uses the calendar, $10.95 pb, 1-56280-146-5, December.
and it is filled with articles, poetry and art from 100 Costa Brava is the heartwarming, hilarious
women! We’'Moon 97 focuses on the theme of novelization of Marta Balletbo-Coll’s award-winning
Amantha Magdalena
BA OS OM KS The story of two women The story of a great diva, brought by the loss of
caught in the web of the her heart's love to the depth of despair as a
opulent patriarchal society of homeless streetwoman, and of the devoted
Baltimore, Paris and London in the 1880s and 90s, friendship of four younger women who rescue her.
who nevertheless reach intimate love with each ISBN: 0-9646648-1-X $9.95
other. ISBN: 0-9646648-0-1 $10.95
a joy to read”. AIl twelve of the
November /December 1996 94
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
film. Set amidst the beauty of Barcelona and the splen- and Michael Ondaatje, among many others. Further-
dor of Spain's Mediterranean coast, Costa Brava more, here in Toronto, a local ultraconservative
chronicles the love affair between Anna, a Barcelona talk-radio host has launched a campaign to get all of
tour guide and aspiring performance artist, and Sister Vision’s funding cut, on the grounds that our
Montserrat, a Tel Aviv-born/Boston-bred seismic being a women-of-colour publishing house is “racist.”
engineer. The feature-length video of Costa Brava is Nonetheless, we’re forging ahead.
also available from Naiad Press ($49.95). $11.95 pb, Quilting a New Canon: Stitching Women’s
1-56280-160-0, January. Words edited by Uma Parameswaran is a collection of
essays that attempts “to ground a theory of justice in
the experience of injustice.” Feminist inquiry into
difficult and provocative socio-economic questions
Meeting Magdalene is an intriguing short story provides a context for the literary critiques and theo-
collection by the multi-talented Marilyn Freeman, retical discussions of other essays. This book doesn’t
creator of the sexy, lesbian film of the same name. just insist that all women’s voices must be “quilted”
Her stories pulsate with insightful, poignant, into the literary canon — it illustrates why.
humorous peeks at romance, relationships, coming C$24.95/$19.95 pb, 1-896705-06-5.
out, staying in, power dykes and babes in the ‘burbs.
The video version of Meeting Magdalene is also Small Press Distributors
available from Naiad Press ($24.95). $11.95 pb,
1-56280-170-8, January. Alamo Square Distributors
Second Fiddle is the spellbinding followup to PO Box 14543, San Francisco CA 94114
Kate Calloway’s blockbuster debut novel, First Impres- 415-252-0643, fax 415-863-7456
sions. Someone is blackmailing the residents of Cedar
Ridge and Oregon private eye Cassidy James buries Bookpeople (BP)
herself in the investigation, hoping it will help her 7900 Edgewater Drive, Oakland CA 94621
forget the horror of her last case...and the woman who 800-999-4650, fax 510-632-1281
broke her heart. Let your mystery buffs know that Consortium
Calloway’s next thriller, Third Degree, will be coming 1045 Westgate Drive, St. Paul MN 55114
out s o To hn e! N$1 a1 ia.9 d5 P p rb e, s s ,1 - P5 O62 8 B0 o-1 x6 1 1- 09 5, 4 3J , a n Tu aa lr lay h. assee FL 800-283-3572, fax 612-221-0124
32302; 904-539-5965. Naiad titles are available from Koen/Inland (Koen)
the publisher and from BFP, LPC/WomanSource, 10 Twosome Drive, Moorestown NJ 08057
Ingram, et al. —Naiad Press 800-257-8481, fax 609-727-6914
SISTER VISION PRESS LPC Group (InBook/Login Trade/Womensource)
We've been under some duress lately — drastic 1436 West Randolph Street, Chicago IL 60607
arts funding cuts at both provincial and federal levels 800-243-0138, fax 800-334-3892
have had a devastating effect on all small Ontario Publishers Group West (PGW)
presses: we were saddened to witness the recent Box 8843, Emeryville CA 94662
demise of Coach House, the highly respected literary 800-788-3123, fax 510-658-1834
press that launched the careers of Margaret Atwood
95 November /December 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
What happens when ten Native women of dykes. Taking cultural space for their language and
diverse ages, representing many different nations and art, Anne-Marie Alonzo, Sherree Clark, Laura Her-
clans, come together for two days of writing, reading shey, Audre Lorde, Mary Frances Platt, Sherry
and sharing? Into the Moon happens — an eclectic, Shute, Shahnaz Stri, Frances Yip Hoi and others,
engrossing anthology of poetry, fiction, myth and per- challenge exclusionary notions about who counts as
sonal essays. By coming together in a circle, the a dyke, and subvert pervasive stereotypes about
members of the Native Women’s Writing Circle find disabled people. In doing so, these writers and art-
the strength to speak the experiences of their hearts, ists enrich queer communities and contribute to the
souls, bodies and minds, and to challenge hate and efforts of anti-ableist and other disability activists.
violence with their words. C$14.95/$12.95 pb, Finally, an autonomous, self- contained collection of
1-896705-04-9. cultural work by disabled dykes, Pushing the Lim-
Sister Vision Press, PO Box 217, Station E, Toronto its is compelling, provocative and affirming. $13.95
ONT M6H 4E2; 416-595-5033, fax 416-595-0627. Dis- pb, 0-88961-218-8. Women’s Press, 517 College
tributed in Canada by General Distribution Services, Street #233, Toronto ONT M6G 4A2; 416-921-2425.
30 Lesmill Road, Don Mills ONT MS5B 2T?9; 416-445- Distributed in the U.S. by LPC/ InBook and in Can-
3333, fax 416-445-5967. In the U.S. by LPC /InBook. ada by University of Toronto Press.
—Sister Vision Press —Women’s Press/Canada
WOMEN’S PRESS — Canada
Pushing the Limits: Disabled Dykes Produce
Culture edited by Shelley Tremain is a path-break- WOMEN’S PRESS — U.K.
ing multi-media anthology of fiction, personal The Women’s Press Ltd. titles are finally available
narrative, poetry, song and artwork by disabled again in the U.S.! All of the following titles should be
available through Trafalgar Square by the time you
Which lunar calendar? s read this. Trafalgar will also be opening accounts with
other U.S. wholesalers, so check with your favorite
The Lunar Calendar. distributor. We’ll report the details as we get them.
Instead of Full Stops: A Guide to Writing and
39999000 Publishing Nonfiction edited by Susan Sellers offers
LUNA PRESS © © a tl ol wth re it eg u ai nd dan c pe u, b la id shv ic ne o nan fid c t ie on nc o u br oa og ke sm , e wnt it h n e ce od ne td ribu-
€) »”? Box 15511, Kenmore Station tions from top writers, editors and publishers. Aimed
Boston, MA 02215-0009 USA © at both novice writers and at writers hoping to make
» 0e (617) 427-9846 the switch from fiction to nonfiction, journalism to
books, or one form of nonfiction to another, it stands
eec. © © out from the “how-to-write” crowd, because of the
sheer quality and breadth of the material included.
THE LUNAR CALENDAR: $17.95 pb, 07043-4439-4.
DEDICATED TO THE GODDESS IN HER MANY GUISES. In The Protectors’ Handbook: Reducing the
Risk of Child Sexual Abuse and Helping Children
The 21st anniversary edition features fresh work from Recover, Gerrilyn Smith argues that, with child sex-
ISB N23 a 13r -t 2i 8s t 7s p 7 aa 9n g 2d e 0 ,w - 0r i w 7te -r a Xs l, l .- d h e Rf ai nn ei tgti av i ine l : g m ,o so tn r i- led la c t y a, oc nle lyd p 2a 0p .0e 0r . US$. u adal u l ta b u ins e a nn yow c ou nn tq au ce ts t aio t n a ab lll y w iw thid e csp hr ile da rd e, n e v mer uy st become
an active protector of children (rather than simply a
AvNailable from: BOOKUPEOPLE, LADYSLI PPER, NE W LEAF2 non-abuser). Giving adults all the information and
DISTRIBUTING, MOVING BOOKS, SAMUEL WEISER, SMALL skills necessary to protect children in their day-to-day
CHANGES, VISIONWORKS, and the publisher. lives, this excellent book is aimed at parents, other
relatives, nurses, teachers, nursery workers, childcare
November /December 1996 96
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
workers — anyone in contact with children. Gerrilyn In Snowflakes in the Sun by Jean Buffong a
has been a professional childcare worker for many retired couple returns to Grenada and reflects upon
years and The Protectors’ Handbook draws on her their working life in an often hostile, racist society.
professional experience, a wide range of sources and “Never before has the Caribbean dialect been molded
techniques and on the testimony of young survivors into such sensuous and uplifting prose.” —Publishers
themselves. $13.95 pb, 07043-4417-3. Weekly. “A wonderfully evocative portrait.” —Kirkus
The A-Z of Non-Sexist Language by Margaret Reviews. $13.95 pb 07043-4423-8.
Doyle provides a complete listing of sexist words In Mahi’s Story, celebrated Iranian author Gohar
and their non-sexist alternatives. It has proved Kordi recounts in fiction form her mother’s early
invaluable for writers, editors, journalists, teachers years as a young woman, providing a warm and
and others and has become a strong seller for The loving picture of the mother/daughter relationship
Women’s Press both in the U.K. and in Canada. and an analysis of the strengths of Iranian culture. “A
$13.95 pb, 07043-4430-0. writer of riveting quality.” —Good Book Guide. $11.95
Secret Flowers: Adapting to Mourning and to pb, 07043-4373-8.
Loss by Mary Jones is one woman’s account of the These and other backlist titles are also available
loss of her husband, the processes of grief and how from Trafalgar Square . Z
she learnt to live alone. It has made a huge impact
because it describes with clarity and compassion the
different stages of grief, loss and recovery. The
author is now a bereavement counselor. “A moving Backlist Titles
record of bereavement and grief...[it] will comfort all NONFICTION:
those who have to face the death of someone dear ‘ Every Mother’s Son: The Role of Mothers in the
and the pain and isolation that can involve.” —Val Making of Men by Judith Arcana. (Arcana is Profes-
Hennessy, She. “Compulsive reading.... Mary Jones sor of Interdisciplinary Studies at The Graduate
has important things to say and she says them School of the Union Institute, Washington.) $17.95 pb,
clearly, honestly and intricately.” —Bereavement Care. 07043-3916-1.
“A beautifully written book.” —Guardian. $13.95 pb, Our Mother’s Daughters by Judith Arcana.
07043-4505-6. $15.95 pb, 07043-3864-5.
Reader I Murdered Him, Too. edited by Helen Delighting the Heart: A Notebook by Women
Windrath provides superb short stories from top Writers edited by Susan Sellers. $17.95 pb, 07043-
women crime writers, including Sara Paretsky, 4176-0.
Amanda Cross, Mary Wings, Val McDermind and Taking Reality by Surprise: Writing for
many more. ($11.95 pb, 07043-4363-0.) The sequel to Pleasure and Publication edited by Susan Sellers.
the best-selling collection, Reader, I Murdered Him. $17.95 pb, 07043-4267-7.
($11.95 pb, 07043-4159-X.) The Anorexic Experience by Marilyn Lawrence.
Unlike Normal Women by Vernella Fuller is a A Women’s Press Handbook. $13.95 pb, 07043-4441-6.
powerful novel by increasingly acclaimed Black Dealing with Depression by Kathy Nairne and
writer, Vernella Fuller. Set in Jamaica just after inde- Gerrilyn Smith. A Women’s Press Handbook. $13.95
pendence, three women take a stand against lingering pb, 07043-4443-2.
corruption and bring about much-needed change. Hidden Loss: Miscarriage and Ectopic Pregnancy
$13.95 pb, 07043-4431-9. edited by Valerie Hey, Catherine Itzin, Lesley Saunders
97 November /December 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
and Mary Anne Speakman. A Woman’s Press Hand- Barrett Browning, selected and introduced by Cora
book. $13.95, 07043-4457-2. Kaplan. (Kaplan is Professor of English and Director
For the Record: The Making and Meaning of of the Institute for Research of Women at Rutgers.)
Feminist Knowledge by Dale Spender. $17.95 pb, $11.95 pb, 07043-3820-3.
07043-3960-9.
Not a Passing Phase: Reclaiming Lesbians in
History by the Lesbian History Group. $17.95 pb,
07043-4175-1.
New Age and Armageddon: The Goddess or the Reader I Murdered Him: Crime Fiction by
Gurus? Towards a Feminist Vision of the Future by Women edited by Jen Green. $11.95 pb, 07043-4159-X.
Monica Sjoo. $22.95 pb, 07043-4263-4. Happy as a Dead Cat by Jill Miller. $9.95 pb,
In Our Own Hands: A Book of Self-Help 07043-3898-X.
Therapy by Sheila Ernst and Lucy Goodison. $17.95 Three Ply Yarn by Caeia March. $13.95 pb, 07043-
pb, 07043-3841-6. 4007-0.
On Women and Writing by Virginia Woolf, Fire! Fire! by Caeia March. $13.95 pb, 07043-4282-0.
selected and introduced by Michele Barrett. $17.95 pb, The Unbelonging by Joan Riley. $13.95 pb,
07043-3839-4. 07043-3959-5.
A Journey into the Red Eye: The Poetry of Sylvia Waiting in the Twilight by Joan Riley. $13.95 pb,
Plath by Janice Markey. $15.95 pb, 07043-4316-9. 07043-4023-2.
Aurora Leigh and Other Poems by Elizabeth The Awakening by Kate Chopin. $11.95 pb,
07043-3822-X.
ONE WOMYN'S Devotion and Disorder by Marie Cardinal.
JOURNEY TO FEEL $15.95 pb, 07043-4247-2.
A Piece of the Night by Michele Roberts. $13.95
"I tell of my journey to offer hope to those who have pb, 07043-3830-0.
traveled my path. I share my courage and strength to The Visitation by Michele Roberts. $13.95 pb,
celebrate, to reaffirm, to empower myself and other 07043-3903-X.
Womyn who have walked in unshielded silence." Walk to the End of the World and Motherlines
Laura Irene Wayne.
"An illustration of painstaking beauty by a by Suzy McKee Charnas. $14.95 pb, 07043-4154-9.
talented artist's and poet's pictures and words, The Soul Brothers and Sister Lou by Kristin
mapping out the recovery of her soul." Hunter. One of our Livewire books for young women.
T deh pis t h sb o o ok f ec mhr oo tn ioic nl ae ls , o sn exe u aW l O aM ndY N p'S h y j so iu cr aln e ay b u f ser .o m it t rh ee cords $9.95 Tp hb e, 0 W7 o0 m43 e- n49 ’s0 0 P- r0. ess Ltd. titles are available
her emergence from a battered child struggling in silence again in the U.S. through Trafalgar Square Publish-
to the Womyn warrior who fought the battles and won. Her ing, Howe Hill Road, North Pomfret VT 05053;
poetry and Artwork was once Artist and Poet Laura Irene 802-457-1911, 800-423-4525; fax 802-457-1913. Their
tW o a y hn ee a' ls i n gon , l y h e rs o l "a Jce o, u r b nu et y n To ow F i et e l ."is $a 1l 5so .0 0 h e pr b , voice, her path terms are: 40% for 3—9; 42% før 10-24; 44% for 25-74;
0-9643923-0-4. 40%. Jora Publications, P.O. BOX 46% for 75—249. Women’s Press titles should also be
221850 Sacramento, CA. 95822; 916-684-9989 appearing at other U.S. wholesalers over the next
" aA n d jo u arn e dy e sta tk ie nn a t t ih or nou g rh e at ch he e e dy e s b yof a a n c h i eld mpowered few months. They can be obtained in Canada from
Womyn." Fitzhenry & Whiteside, 195 Allstate Parkway, Mark-
ham ONT L3R 428; 905-477-9700, fax 905-477-9179.
"The branches of my body glide —Women’s Press/U.K.
:. whispering the mellow winds of her songs
dancing, rising, roots WOLFE VIDEO
in search of the soul it longs."
Antonia's Line is coming to video in October. A
Natures Dance: Laura Irene Wayne ©93 rich, big-hearted fable worthy of the Academy Award
for Best Foreign Language Film, with a delightful
November /December 1996 98
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
feminist slant. On a bright, sunny morning an elderly articles, reviews and such by women on topics of
woman wakes up and decides that this is the day she interest to women including history, current events,
will die. Thus begins this Dutch film portraying a politics, humor, art, environment and the outdoors.
rural matriarchy that covers four generations of They are planning to add regular columns on health,
women. Subtitled in English. Wolfe Video is offering economics, legal concerns and other topics. 72 pages,
a 40% discount to bookstores on this highly recom- 8⁄2" by 11" format, black and white glossy, large print,
mended title. $89.95. easy to read. Subscription is 6 issues /$20/ year. $3.95
I Shot Andy Warhol is coming to video in October. each. ISSN 77470-90431. InterMountain Woman, PO
Valerie Solanas, lesbian separatist and founder of the Box 7487, Missoula MT 59807; 406-721-8420, e-mail
Society for Cutting Up Men (SCUM), has one mission (imwoman@marsweb.com). And on the Web: (http:
— to spread the word of female superiority. Lili Taylor / /www.marsweb.com/imwoman). Distributed by
gives an incredible performance set in the 60s and the
cultural whirlwind of events surrounding the shooting
of Andy Warhol. (Closed Captioned.) $89.95.
French Twist has also just been released to video
by Wolfe. A sexy housewife gets revenge on her two- Goddessing Network News is a bimonthly news-
timing husband by taking a female lover. Based on a print networking journal for people throughout the
true story, this hilarious sex farce takes on new twists world passionately interested in goddessing. This
and plays on every possibility. Subtitled in English, impressive journal includes a large letters and net-
but you'll love it anyway! $99.95. working section, articles, poetry, interviews,
Teresa's Tattoo has just been reduced to $19.95 by bibliographies of related readings, news, festival
Wolfe Video. Teresa’s Tattoo is last year’s goofy reports, reviews, a listing of goddess tours and an
comedy with not-to-be-missed cameos by k.d. lang extensive calendar of goddess-related events
and Melissa Etheridge. throughout the world. For those interested in the con-
Coming Out Under Fire has also just been cepts, values, art and inspiration of “prehistoric,”
reduced to $29.95 by the Wolfe Pack. The experiences pre-patriarchal goddess-oriented cultures. Issue #5,
of nine gay and lesbian veterans is documented in this “Still Harvesting/Light Waning,” includes a letter
powerful new film directed by Academy Award nomi- and an editorial stance supporting feminist book-
nee Arthur Dong. stores. “Please Support Your Local Feminist and
Wolfe Video, PO Box 64, New Almaden CA 95042; Alternative Bookstores!” heads an editorial that reads,
408-268-6782, e-mail (wolfevid@megamed.com). in part, “These bookstores have given many of us our
—Wolfe Video first exposure to Goddess books and music; now
when so many are going out of business, they really
need our community to return that gift with our
Magazines matronage and patronage.” 5 issues for $15—25/
InterMountain Woman is a new bimonthly £9-13, sliding scale. Sample issue: $4/£2.50. Based in
women’s literary magazine out of Missoula, Montana. Malta, but printed and mailed from the U.S. 40%.
Founded on the belief that many women would like Goddessing has working addresses in both the U.S. and
to read something beyond the standard diet, beauty in Malta: PO Box 269, Valrico FL 33595; PO Box 73,
and romance fare, InterMountain Woman publishes art, Sliema, Malta; e-mail (goddssng@maltanet.
photos, fiction, poetry, essays, profiles, interviews, omnes.net). Direct order only. O
99 November /December 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Wherike bishop of San Juan de Acre asked the bride if she
took Bernardo for her husband, she let [oose—at the very foot
of the altar—with a resounding and energetic “No!”
From “Torn Lace”
and Other Stories 1A
Emilia Pardo Bazán
Translated by María Cristina Urruela
Introduction by Joyce Tolliver
LTHOUGH WRITTEN a century ago, the sixteen stories by Emilia
Pardo Bazán collected in this volume are strikingly relevant to contem-
porary concerns. Noted for narrative complexity, stylistic variety, and femi-
nist themes, Pardo Bazán’s stories explore many aspects of the relationships
between men and women.
Readers of these stories, most of which are here translated into English
for the first time, will encounter memorable and affecting characters. A mys-
terious nun spends her days in a convent crying over something that hap-
pened to her long ago. A young man tries to uncover the true reason a
scheming woman married his uncle. An unwed pregnant woman finds unex-
pected help from a misogynist doctor. A bachelor wishing to marry develops
a special test for prospective wives, only to see it backfire. And in the title
story, a bride suddenly calls off her wedding at the last possible moment
without an explanation.
Both outspoken and witty, melancholy and humorous, these stories will
interest general readers as well as students and scholars of Spanish literature.
Considered by many scholars one of the most important writers of
nineteenth-century Spain, Emilia Pardo Bazán (1851-1921) published
twenty novels, twenty-one novellas, two cookbooks, seven plays, nearly six
ÅVAILABLE FROM INGRAM hundred short stories, and hundreds of essays.
BOOK COMPANY OR
January 1997
DIRECTLY FROM THE MLA Advertising in major literary reviews and scholarly journals
Nu s 5% x 8% * c. 180 pp. * Trade paperback ISBN 0-87352-784-4 © $7.95 trade
M O D E R N L ANGU AG ÈE ASSOCIATION
10 Astor Place • New York, NY 10003-6981- Phone Orders 212 614-6382 • Fax Orders 212 477-9863
November /December 1996 100 Volume 19 Number 4
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFROM IH
By Lisa McGowan and Jenn Tust social change. Suzanne Pharr founded and has been on
the staff of The Women’s Project, an organization that
An updated edition of Jennifer Harbury’s Bridge has worked to eliminate sexism and racism since 1981.
of Courage: Life Stories of the Guatemalan In this new book she blends personal anecdote and
Compañeros and Compañeras has just been released contemporary cutting-edge analysis — along with a
by Common Courage Press. Harbury is the woman vision of a multi-issue, multi-racial movement — to
whose hunger strikes forced into the open the CIA's create a powerful call to action. ($10.95 pb, 0-9620222-8-4.)
long ties to the Guatemalan military as well as the
assassination of her husband by a paid agent of the
CIA. Through the Guatemalan guerrillas’ own stories
of fighting against a U.S.-backed army, she provides a
terrifying yet inspiring account of a revolution
brought down to the most elemental, human level.
$14.95 pb, 1-56751-068-X; $29.95 cl, -069-8.
Sara Diamond (Spiritual Warfare: The Politics of the
Christian Right, Roads to Dominion: Right-Wing Move-
ments and Political Power in the United States) has been
studying, analyzing and reporting on right-wing move-
ments in this country since the early 1980s. In Facing the
Wrath: Confronting the Right in Dangerous Times,
she provides a highly readable, essential road map of
the desolate fringes of our country’s politics. Showing
that the Far Right is made up of more than just the
psychotics who make headlines with their bloody
deeds and that it has in fact significant popular, grass-
roots support by many who work quietly and diligently
to put their agenda into effect, Diamond demonstrates
the need to abandon any preconceived stereotypes we
have about who this movement is made up of and to
understand how it really operates. $16.95 pb, 1-56751-
078-7; $29.95 cl, -079-5.
Common Courage Press, PO Box 702, Monroe
ME 04951; 207-525-0900. Distributed by Koen.
In the Time of the Right: Reflections on Libera-
tion is another insightful analysis of the Right written Stone carving from the church at Kilpeck, Herefordshire,
by a woman who has long been an activist working for England, from The Yoni (Inner Traditions).
Volume 19 Number 4 101
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Also by Suzanne Pharr is Homophobia: A Weapon of inspire.” —Mary L. Shanley, Professor of Social Science,
Sexism, published by Chardon Press in 1988. Chardon Vassar College. $18.95 pb, 0-8420-2563-4, Scholarly
Press publishes works relating to [or funding] the work Resources Inc., 104 Greenhill Avenue, Wilmington DE
of social justice and social change. All proceeds from the 19805. Distributed by B&T, Blackwell North America
sale of these books go to The Women’s Project. ($9.95 pb, and other major wholesalers and distributors.
0-9620222-1-7.) Chardon Press, PO Box 101, Inverness
CA 94937. 40%. Books available from The Women’s The Womanspirit Moving: Toward Peace and
Project, 2224 Main Street, Little Rock AR 72206; 501-372- Justice 1997 Peace Calendar edited by Virginia Baron
5113; fax 501-372-0009, e-mail (wproject@aol.com). focuses on the contributions of women to the non-
Distributed by BP. violent movement. This 42nd peace calendar from the
War Resisters League tells numerous stories (albeit
quite abbreviated) that attest to the vision, dedication
and courage of activist women around the world.
Resources for peace and justice, women’s, and non-
In Women Reshaping Human Rights: How violence groups (both in the U.S. and internationally)
Extraordinary Activists Are Changing the World by are included in the back of the calendar, as well as a
Marguerite Guzmán Bouvard, women activists from list of publications that make a significant contribu-
around the world tell their own stories, in their own tion to peace and independent thought. $12 spiral
words. The activists challenge drug dealers and toxic bound, 0-940862-08-05. War Resisters League, 339
polluters threatening their neighborhoods, combat Lafayette Street, New York NY 10012; 212-228-0450.
racial and ethnic discrimination, confront authoritarian Distributed by BP, Small Changes, VisionWorks.
governments, and fight to uphold women’s rights as
human rights. Each piece begins with a brief biography Conceived by the League of Women Voters to
of the activist that provides a context for her work. honor the 75th anniversary of the 19th Amendment,
These “ordinary” women then tell their own stories of A Voice of Our Own: Leading American Women
political activism. “Extraordinary acts of courage, com- Celebrate the Right to Vote edited by Nancy M.
passion and political skill grew out of the ability to see Neuman is a collection of original essays featuring
the relationship between everyday activities and larger pieces from an eclectic group of contributors. The
political imperatives. These stories both instruct and women, which include Mary Chapin Carpenter,
Katherine V. Forrest “Blum is Women
describe their
a superb
writer.” first lesbian
—Feminist Bookstore News experience
1$-95.955583-381-0 1-555 $8131-.39554-3
LOUISE A BLUM
November /December 1996 102
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Martina Navratilova, Betty Ford, Wilma P. Mankiller, theologically both heterosexual and lesbian and gay
Rebecca Walker, Donna Shalala and Nicole Hollander, relationships. $14.95 pb, 0-264-67328-X.
offer their own unique perspectives on their visions of Amazon to Zami: Towards a Global Lesbian
equality. $24 cl, 0-7879-0231-4. Jossey-Bass, 350 San- Feminism edited by Monika Reinfelder is a collection
some Street, San Francisco CA 94104. Distributed by of essays that looks at the existence of a global net-
B&T, Ingram. work of lesbian feminist activists in Latin America,
Africa, Asia and the Pacific. Challenging the assump-
tion that lesbianism is a political phenomenon
exclusive to the white decadent West, the contributors
explore the history, myths and oppression of lesbians
Back in January we ran a pre-publication excerpt in their respective countries, placing lesbian concerns
from Unspoken Rules: Sexual Orientation and in the context of the pressing political issues of their
Women’s Human Rights edited by Rachel Rosen- regions. $17.95 pb, 0-304-33203-8; $60 cl, -33193-7.
bloom. This ground-breaking book, prepared by the Lesbians Are So Chic...that we are not really
International Gay and Lesbian Human Rights Com- lesbians at all by Laura Cottingham is an intelligent
mission in time for the Beijing conference, documents and insightful examination of current debates in
human rights violations against lesbians in 31 coun- lesbian, gay and feminist politics that seeks to re-affirm
tries around the world. It situates lesbian human the position of the lesbian in relation to queer and
rights within the broader framework of women’s feminist ideologies. In this slim volume Cottingham
human rights, arguing for a women’s movement that argues that the lesbian significance of the mainstream
embraces and works for the most inclusive vision of media's “lesbian chic” phenomenon is less about
human rights. A vitally important document in the lesbian cultural power than it is about disempowering
field of women’s and lesbian studies and human and marginalizing lesbians by making lesbianism a
rights. $14.95 pb, 0-304-33764-1, commodity. $4.95 pb, 0-304-33721-8.
Accessible, entertaining and original, Undress- Sue O’Sullivan’s I Used to Be Nice: Sexual Affairs
ing Lesbian Sex: Popular Images, Private Acts and offers the reader an engaged, questioning and hilari-
Public Consequences by Elaine Creith draws on ously honest account of international feminist and
information provided by women from three 1992 sur- lesbian politics. The essays in this collection stretch back
veys — two in London and one in New York. over 25 years and touch on many different topics: from
Presenting a down-to-earth review of what lesbians her ambivalence toward motherhood and marriage in
do, how they do it, and how often, this is a provocative the 60s to butch/femme and queer in the 80s and 90s;
and informative book. $14.95 pb, 0-304-32849-9. from birth control and PMS to HIV/AIDS and eroti-
In Just Good Friends: Towards a Lesbian and cism. A passionate and witty account of a feminist life
Gay Theology of Relationships, author Elizabeth in progress. $16.95 pb, 0-304-33572-X.
Stuart suggests that lesbians and gay men have sig- Sakhiyani: Lesbian Desire in Ancient and
nificant insights to contribute to creative theological Modern India by Giti Thadani offers a unique and
reflection upon sexuality, marriage and celibacy — fascinating account of lesbian life in India, both con-
most notably in the understanding of friendship to temporary and in history. Through a detailed
include our most intimate and committed relation- examination of mythology, cosmology, ancient art and
ships. Stuart makes the case that the covenant of artifacts the study of ancient Sanskrit texts, the author
friends is the most appropriate model for sexual rela- constructs a tapestry of feminine kinship, genealogy
tionships, and in this book seeks to revise and sexual bonding between women in ancient India.
103 November /December 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
CONVENTIONS PRIMARY CONCERN?
T
Hologram Girl’s Guide to River & Bridge American Saint Frances
A Book of Glosas Giving Head by Meena Alexander Notebooks of Hollywood
by P.K. Page by Sheri-D Wilson A Writer’s Journey by Sally Clark
by Marie-Claire Blais
w oP vK i en. r n iP n aa gg e d oa zuis et nh t o h r b e o oo ka fw sard- T t doh a ze z S l h iw ne go rr i- l pDd o ea W tc ic cilo s r o ud n ni :n i v g a erse MTr ol r. e b y th aL ni n ad a f aG sa cb ino ar tia inu g = “It is this mix a Co n lf ad r k f fa a c hnt at sa s y c a pt th ua rt ed so
o anf d p o ne ot nr -y f, i c tf ii oc nt .i o n H, er o mf y tj haz oz l, o g d yr e ta hm as t a tn akd es oa fu t a o gb ri eo atg r wa rip teh r,i c ia t'l s aa lsc ocount sb tr ri il kli ia nn gt l y a d van and t au gs ee ..d . to
paintings are exhibited nothing for granted. an album of exquisitely the effect is brutally
internationally. drawn contemporaries. chilling.”—Variety
BRICK BOOKS ARSENAL PULP PRESS TALON BOOKS TALON BOOKS / DRAMA
0- 919M626-72A-6 * $1 1.9d5 peba 1-55152-031-1 * $12.95 pb 0-88922-358-0 • $13.95 pb 0-88922-366-1 • $11.95 pb
She also looks at contemporary lesbian realities and All the Rage: Reasserting Radical Lesbian
issues, including lesbian marriages, suicide pacts, Feminism edited by Lynne Harne and Elaine Miller
lesbian human rights, sexual exile and the different is a collection of essays that explores how feminism
constructions of gender, family and possible kinship is being undermined by current trends in popular
alliances. $17.95 pb, 0-304-33452-9; $60 cl, -33451-0. culture such as queer theory, sado-masochism,
Cassell Academic, 127 W. 24th Street, 4th Floor, New lesbian chic and lipstick lesbianism. The contributors
York NY 10011. Distributed by Koen, LPC/ InBook. argue that these glamorous trends are in fact the
post-modern disguises of a patriarchal backlash that
The term yoni heralds from a culture and era in threaten the hard-won (and often precariously held)
which women were regarded and honored as the gains made by radical feminists over the past three
embodiment of divine energy and where the female decades. The book also shows how a generation of
genitals were seen as a sacred symbol of the Great radical lesbian feminists are continuing to connect
Goddess. Yoni worship has been part of the spiritual lesbianism with feminism and are working in coali-
heritage in every part of the globe and may, in fact, be tions with other feminists to reassert a radical
the most ancient realizing of humanity. In The Yoni: feminist agenda. $16.95 pb, 0-8077-6284-9, Teachers
Sacred Symbol of Female Creative Power, Rufus C. College Press, 1234 Amsterdam Avenue, New York
Camphausen traces this primal motif from its first NY 10027. Distributed by AIDC; 800-575-6566.
surviving occurrence almost 30,000 years ago in Europe
to its remnants and budding renaissance in contempo- Compiled by Feminists Against Censorship and
rary language, art and literature. $19.95 pb, edited by Cherie Matrix, Tales from the Clit: A
0-89281-562-0. Inner Traditions, One Park Street, Female Experience of Pornography is a collection of
Rochester VT 05767; 802-767-3174. Distributed by BP. essays that confronts the stereotype that all feminists
November/December 1996 104 Volume 19 Number 4
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
are in favor of censoring pornography. From intimate brings together new stories, both witty and deadly
sexual experiences and physical perception through serious, that adamantly reject the role of female vic-
to the academic arena, this volume documents timization. This new anthology of short fiction, which
women’s positive thoughts, uses and desires for, with features new work by Rikki Ducornet, Eurydice,
and about pornography. $10.95 pb, 1-873176-09-0. AK Elizabeth Graver, Ursule Molinaro and others, is sure
Press, PO Box 40682, San Francisco CA 94140; 415-923- to fascinate, arouse, anger and ultimately intrigue
1429. Distributed by LPC/InBook. readers, whether gay or straight, male or female.
$11.95 pb, 1-57366-020-5. FC2/ Black Ice Books, Illinois
Haunted Houses by Lynne Tillman is the film noir State University, Normal IL 31790. Distributed by
version of growing up female. In this dark and comic Northwestern University Press, 625 Colfax Street,
story of three friends growing up in urban middle-class Evanston IL 60208; 847-491-5313.
families in the late 50s and 60s, Tillman chronicles the
loneliness of childhood and incipient womanhood, the
salvation of friendship, and the neurotic chain that
binds perpetually needy daughters to their perpetually
self-absorbed parents. $12.99 pb, 1-85242-400-1. With Exteriors author Annie Ernaux (A Woman's
Serpent's Tail also has two new books in their Story, Simple Passion, A Man’s Place) shifts the focus
Mask Noir crime fiction series. In Wavewalker by from her immediate circle and surroundings to survey
Stella Duffy, Saz Martin, who first appeared in Calen- the outside world, though in doing so she continues
dar Girl, returns to investigate a mystery that starts in to reflect on her own condition and the lives of those
70s San Francisco and then comes crashing down into near to her. This slim novel takes the form of random
her own 90s London life. About Calendar Girl, The journal entries and captures the feeling of contempo-
Times of London wrote, “There’s a lot of lesbian love rary living on the outskirts of a great city — drab,
and sex in it, but is also a fast, witty and clever crime tortured, chaotic, lyrical, and powerfully alive. Annie
story, with a cracking dialogue and exuberant charac- Ernaux will be touring the U.S. in November to pro-
ters.” Jenn loved both of Duffy’s mysteries. ($13.99 pb, mote this book as well as the paperback edition of A
1-85242508-3.) Pieke Biermann won the German Frozen Woman (advertised in the Feminist Bookstore
Crime Writers’ Prize for Violetta in 1991, which is now Network’s Fall Catalog) — be prepared for height-
available in English with the publication of this ened interest in her work. $16 cl, 1-888-363-31-2. Seven
edition. “Pieke Biermann has an apocalyptic imagina- Stories Press, 632 Broadway, 7th Floor, New York NY
tion. Her voice — telling us of violence and despair as 10012. Distributed by PGW.
we hurtle to the end of the millennium — is unique
among contemporary crime writers.” —Sara Paretsky. Rachel Guido deVries’ second collection of
($13.99 pb, 1-85242-289-0.) poetry, How to Sing to a Dago is from her perspective
Serpent's Tail, 180 Varick Street, 10th Floor, New of a southern Italian American woman looking first at
York NY 10014; 212-741-8500. Distributed by Koen. the world of family and lovers and friends, then
focusing on the dominant culture in which she and
Chick-Lit 2: No Chick Vics edited by Cris Mazza, her cast of characters must live. DeVries’ novel Tender
Jeffrey DeShell and Elisabeth Sheffield is FC2’s second Warriors was published by Firebrand in 1986.
collection of new and alternative post-feminist C$12/$10 pb, 1-55071-028-1.
women’s fiction. A follow-up to their well received In the two plays that comprise Women As
Chick-Lit: Postfeminist Fiction, 1995, this new volume Lovers, Theresa Carilli satirizes the lesbian, rendering
105 November /December 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bòokstore News
a humorous and dramatic portrait of San Francisco
Beyond lesbian culture. In “Dolores Street,” four roommates
Our Ghettos arrange a dinner party from a personal ad as they
comically struggle to understand their ill-fated love
affairs, fascination with jelly donuts and obsession
GAY AND GAIA with house meetings. In the end, they discover each
aE nt dh i c ts h, e E c Eo rl oo tg iy c, Jot oh 'se r l. o v“ eW r i n ge e t sC o iu nn vt or ly v” e d d e wp ii tc ht s t hth eie r t br eia sl ts fo rf i e ntr di a n ang dle s . Jo
DANIEL T. SPENCER heals through her experience only to find herself in
A bold and passionate call to another triangle — on the other side. $C18/$15 pb,
rethink our fundamental assump- 1-55071-007-9.
tions about the sacred, ecology, Guernica Editions, PO Box 117, Station P, Toronto
DANIE a PIn S ad B p s N ee rx u — a 0li $-ty 8 1. 2 99 .98 5-1149-4 464 pp. / ONT Canada M5S 2S6. Distributed by LPC/InBook.
EROS BREAKING FREE
Interpreting Sexual Theo-Ethics
ANNE BATHURST GILSON Jan Zobeľ’s Minding Her Own Business: The
A landmark statement on sexuality, theology, and ethics Self-Employed Woman’s Guide to Taxes and
that affirms carnal joy and reconnects it to Christian faith. Recordkeeping is a down-to-earth, comprehensive
ISBN 0-8298-1021-8 176 pp. / Paper—$14.95 guide that addresses all those frequently asked ques-
BODY, SEX, AND PLEASURE tions that people who are starting and running their
Reconstructing Christian Sexual Ethics own businesses have. This often intimidating infor-
CHRISTINE E. GUDORF mation is presented in a clear, inviting format, guiding
tP er ao cp ho is ne gs oa n s w see xe up ain l g r oc lh esa ,l l e an cg te iv it to y , t r anad di t i ro en la al t i oC nh sr hi is pt si .an w tho em e wn a y t h tr ho ru og uh g h t h he i r b inas gi c s h e o lpf . s Te htt ei n bg o o u kp i na c lb uu ds ei sness all
ISBN 0-8298-1062-5 272 pp. / Paper—$15.95 examples that provide additional clarity to the con-
cepts presented as well as lots of resources that offer
STAYING POWER further help in running a business. An indispensable
Reflections on Gender, Justice, guide for the new small business owner. Advertised
Ca An RTd ER HC EYo Wm ARDpassion $in 1 6 .t 9h 5e p F be ,m 0in -9is 6t 5 4 7B 7o 8o -k 6s -t Xo ,r e E aN ste Htw ilo l r k P’ rs e sF s,a l l 6 1C 1a 4t a l Lo ag S. alle
Offers a deeply personal vision of what it means to speak Avenue # 599, Oakland CA 94611. Distributed by BP.
out and live a life of service. Heyward is at once personal
a In Sd B p Nol i ti 0ca -l 8. 298-1027-7 144 pp. / Paper—$12.95 Personal Financial Planning for Gays and
BEYOND OUR GHETTOS bL yes b Pia en tes: r O Mu .r BG eu rkid ee r y t ,o J P rr . u d ise n at cD oe mci psi ro en h e nM sa ivk ein g guide to
Gay Theology in Ecological Perspective key financial issues for those outside the “traditional
J. MICHAEL CLARK family” model. The book provides many examples of
“Recognizes the value of all beings...in the fight against the ways in which the entire financial infrastructure
exploitation of the earth....a tough and caring book.” — the insurance industry, the investment process, the
— ISD B. NMA R 0K - 8H 2A 9RR 8I -S 0, 9 a 5ut 9h -o 7r o f 1 2 E 8m b r pac pin . g /th e P E aa prt eh r—$10.95 pta rx o c es st sr u —ct u r de o, e s t h ne o t r e at ci cr oe mm men ot d a tsy e s t te hm e la en sbd i a nth e a n p dr o gb aa yte
For orders or information communities’ goals, priorities, or relationships. It
then gives practical, easy-to-read and essential advice
The Pilgrim G PrEessO on how lesbians and gay men can navigate this sys-
tem to plan for their financial futures. “Until we have
equal rights under the law, this book is a ‘must read’
November /December 1996 106
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsfor every lesbian or gay person planning for their Lader’s autobiographical discussion of the evolution
future.” —Carole Migden, Asssemblywoman, Cali- of the abortion rights movement. Lader was an active
fornia State Assembly. $24.95 cl, 0-7863-0482-0. Irwin participant in the debate from its beginning, and his
Professional Publishing, 1333 Burr Ridge Parkway, book provides a full story of how the movement
Burr Ridge IL 60521; 800-634-3966. Distributed by started and developed, and how RU 486 has come to
Koen, B&T, Ingram. play a pivotal role in the struggle. ($24.95 cl, 1-57392-
012-6.) Prometheus Books is also the publisher of Why
Try This at Home: A Do-It-Yourself Guide to I Am An Abortion Doctor by Suzanne T. Poppema,
Winning Lesbian and Gay Civil Rights by the Direc- M.D. ($25.95 cl, 1-57392-045-2), a firsthand look at the
tor of the ACLU Gay and Lesbian Rights Project, life and work of a leading abortion provider, and The
Matthew A. Coles, explains how to rally the commu- Recovering Catholic: Personal Journeys of Women
nity, get organized, respond to opposition, get Who Left the Church by Joanne H. Meehl ($24.95 cl,
proposals into public hearings and win over policy 0-87975-927-5), a book that focuses on the individual
makers. This tool is designed to help create change at journeys of women who have, for various reasons,
all levels of government. It includes instructions for made the choice to leave the Catholic church.
building support in the lesbian and gay community, Prometheus Books, 59 John Glenn Drive, Amherst NY
preparing for public hearings, designing campaign 14228. Distributed by B&T, Ingram.
organization, developing an endorsement strategy,
building relationships with the media, writing and Based on a conference of Christians for Biblical
negotiating policy, lobbying, implementing domestic Equality, Women, Abuse, and the Bible: How Scrip-
partnership policies and more. $14.95 pb, 1-56584-309-6. ture Can Be Used to Hurt or Heal edited by Catherine
The New Press, 450 W. 41st Street, New York NY Clark Kroeger and James R. Beck reveals that many
10036; 212-6529-8811. Distributed by W.W. Norton. abusers see no conflict between their behavior and
their Christian beliefs — some even justify their
behavior by citing biblical passages and religious
principles. This book compels Christians to recognize
the existence of domestic violence; shows how the
Gay & Lesbian Online by Jeff Dawson is a travel Bible can be used to hurt or heal; offers practical and
guide to digital queerdom on the Internet, the World creative pathways to healing; and challenges
Wide Web, America Online, Compuserve, and BBS’s churches to honestly address the issues of domestic
coast to coast. In this easy to use guide, readers will find violence, verbal and clergy abuse, emotional cruelty,
resources for activism, books, cooking, dating, erotica, sexual harassment and rape. $14.99 pb, 0-8010-5707-8.
gardening, movies, politics, square dancing, travel, 40%. Baker Book House, PO Box 6287, Grand Rapids
women’s groups — just about anything one could MI 49516; 616-676-9185, fax 616-676-9573. Distributed
imagine wanting to know about, and, because it’s the by Ingram, Spring Arbor.
Internet, more. $15.95 pb, 0-201-88453-4. Peachpit Press,
2414 Sixth Street, Berkeley CA 94710; 800-283-9444. Dealing with Date Rape: True Stories from
Distributed by Ingram and Addison Wesley. Survivors by Susan Smith Nash, Ph.D., presents the
stories of victims of date or acquaintance rape who
A Private Matter: RU 486 and the Abortion Crisis share their experiences to provide support, guidance,
by Lawrence Lader, founding chair of the National understanding and courage to others who are reach-
Abortion and Reproductive Rights Action League, is ing out for knowledge. $12 pb, 0-9641837-1-4. 40%.
107 November /December 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Texture Press, PO Box 720157, Norman OK 73073; female characters of different ethnic backgrounds —
405-366-7730. Distributed by B&T. and good stories along with beautiful art! Down
Home at Miss Dessa’s by Bettye Stroud and illus-
Making Waves: The Public and Private Victo- trated by Felicia Marshall is the story of an afternoon
ries of the Women’s Team in the America’s Cup by two young girls spend with their elderly neighbor,
Anna Seaton Huntington chronicles the ten-month Miss Dessa. “[Author] Stroud successfully conveys
drive of the first all-female team to race for yachting’s the strength of the bond between two generations,
most coveted and esteemed prize. The author, a free- subtly underscoring the key fact that...the support
lance journalist and 1992 Olympic bronze medalist in and caring are mutual...[Artist] Marshall’s textured
women’s pair rowing, was a member of the 1995 acrylic illustrations also capture the characters’
America” women’s team aboard the Mighty Mary. In compassion.” —Publishers Weekly. Ages 4 and up.
this book, she relates the process by which this group ($14.95 cl, 1-880000-39-3.) The poems in The Palm of
of talented athletes learned to work together to prove My Heart: Poetry by African American Children
to the world that fast boats and teamwork were more edited by Davida Adedjouma are as colorful, powerful
important that the physical strength of a male sailor and bold as the paintings by Gregory Christie that
in this still very male-dominated race. $19.95 cl, illustrate them. Each of the 20 poems in this dazzling
1-56530-191-9. The Summit Publishing Group, 1112 E. collection resounds with the captivating rhythms of
Copeland Road, 5th Floor, Arlington TX 76011; 817- life, as seen through the eyes of African American
274-1821. Distributed by Ingram, BFP, B&T, Koen, PP. children. Ages 4 and up. ($15.95 cl, 1-880000-41-5.)
Confetti: Poems for Children by Pat Mora and illus-
We're very excited about the kids books being trated by Enrique O. Sanchez is a collection which
published by Lee & Low. These books have strong celebrates the vivid landscape and culture of the
Southwest and the delightful rapport children have
Small Press Distributors with the natural world. The poems are written in
English with Spanish words woven in, adding
Alamo Square Distributors rhythm and color to these vibrantly illustrated
PO Box 14543 poems. A glossary of Spanish words is included.
San Francisco CA 94114 Ages 4 and up. ($14.95 cl, 1-880000-25-3.) In Allie’s
415-252-0643, fax 415-863-7456 Basketball Dream by Barbara E. Barber and
illustrated by Darryl Ligasan a young girl’s perse-
Bookpeople (BP) verance and determination in the face of gender bias
7900 Edgewater Drive, Oakland CA 94621 are celebrated. Basketball has been Allie’s favorite
800-999-4650, fax 510-632-1281 sport since her father took her to her first game at
Consortium Madison Square Garden. When her dad gives her a
1045 Westgate Drive, St. Paul MN 55114 basketball of her own, she hits the neighborhood
800-283-3572, fax 612-221-0124 courts and practices and practices — until she’s
making baskets and being cheered by the boys who
Koen/Inland (Koen) had been teasing her. Ages 4 and up. ($14.95 c|,
10 Twosome Drive, Moorestown NJ 08057 1-880000-38-5.) In My Steps by Sally Derby and
800-257-8481, fax 609-727-6914 illustrated by Adjoa J. Burrowes, the reader enters
the pretend worlds a young girl creates on the front
8L 1 04P 03C -6 2 4 G W 3r -o e 0u s 1tp 3 8 R ,( I a n fnB ad xo oo l k p 8h/ 0L 0 o -Sg 3t 3i rn 4e -e 3tT 8,r 9 a 2Cd he/ icW ago om e ILn s o 6u 0r 6c 0e 7) ws at i e tcp hhs i l wdo ’f as t eh i rme cr oa lg oih rno sa .m t ..i he v a e v i e n p l aat yh . fe .. r B ec r si i ht g ,y h . t c h“ cA ilu d t l-g ip ke a en p t el qre u as c lit o to l ylr a .y g ” e sabout
Publishers Group West (PGW) —School Library Journal. Ages 3 to 8. ($14.95 c|,
Box 8843, Emeryville CA 94662 1-880000-40-7.)
800-788-3123, fax 510-658-1834 Lee & Low Books, 95 Madison Avenue, New York
NY 10016; 212-779-4400. Distributed by PGW. O
November /December 1996 108
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFROM
THE
PP
By Mev Miller power and violence that undergird sexual exploita-
tion. $22 pb, 0-8006-2979-5.
I haven't seen a humor title come from a Univer- Also of interest: Through the Eyes of Women:
sity Press for quite some time, but I desperately Insights for Pastoral Care, The Handbook of
wanted to contribute some humor as it’s the theme of Womencare edited by Jeanne Stevenson Moessner.
this issue. So here are three titles to contemplate. I $21 pb, 0-8006-2928-0.
don’t mean to be offensive, just cute!
Homoerotic Butch/Femme Dykes in Foucault's COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS
“Treatise on Postmodern Whatever” and Paglia’s Noel Coward and Radclyffe Hall: Kindred
“Words for the Cranky:” A Critical Comparison edited Spirits by Terry Castle is the first look at the connec-
by R. U. Boredyet. $39.95 cl, Major City University. tion between these two influential contemporaries.
We Have Arrived: The Memoirs of 14 to 16 year- Though they are two very different personalities,
old Norwegian Girl Immigrants from the East End Castle reveals their similarities in a captivating
of Oslo to Northfield, Minnesota Between May 1, manner. This book includes 45 illustrations and
1840 to June 13, 1841 edited by Ineda T. Gradguwait. photographs. $19.95 cl, 0-231-10596-7.
$20.95 pb, Women’s Studies University, December. Sappho and the Virgin Mary: Same-Sex Love
The Hermeneutics in the Transcontinental and the English Literary Imagination by Ruth Vanita
Psychosexual Writings of the Bloomsbury Group: reveals how mainstream criticism, from Freud to
Literary, Critical, and Socioanalytic Perspectives by Foucault and on to Camille Paglia and Harold Bloom,
Ima Akidemick. $29.95 cl, Big Word University, has effectively excluded the notion of homoerotic
December. ancestries in Western literature. $17.50 pb, 0-231-
10551-7, December.
AUGSBERG FORTRESS
4
As feminists, we have tended to look at prostitu- l
tion (the few of us who did) from the broader |
viewpoint of violence against women. In Casting '
Stones: Prostitution and Liberation in Asia and the CORNELL UNIVERSITY PRESS
United States, Rita Nakashima Brock and Susan Holding the Line: Women in the Great Arizona
Brooks Thistlethwaite remind us that religion is in Mine Strike of 1983 is the book that launched Barbara
large part responsible for casting stones at prostitutes Kingsolver’s writing career. It’s the story of how
— calling them sinners and blaming them for their women’s lives were transformed by the 18-month
situations. The authors draw on understanding the strike against the Phelps-Dodge Copper Corporation,
global system of exploitation of women in the U.S. as and is part history and part social criticism. $14.95 pb,
well as in Korea, Japan, the Philippines, Thailand and 0-8014-8389-1.
Taiwan while analyzing the doctrines of sin and Also of interest: Hannah Arendt and the Limits
karma. The heart of their project is rethinking the of Philosophy, Lisa Jane Disch. $14.95 pb, short
deeper cultural and religious notions of sexuality, discount, 0-8014-8378-6.
Volume 19 Number 4 109 November /December 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
DUKE UNIVERSITY PRESS
The Road to Auschwitz In Beyond the Whiteness of Whiteness, Jane
Fragments of a Life Lazarre weaves a narrative from her own and her
HEDI FRIED sons’ and husband’s voices. Recalling events that
Edited and translated opened her eyes to her sons’ and husband’s experi-
by Michael Meyer ences as Black Americans — an operation, turned into
“This is more than a a horrific nightmare by a doctor’s unconscious
personal document, it is 19 NSS racism; the jarring truths brought home by a visit to
testimony. Deeply P an exhibit on slavery at the Richmond Museum of the
moving. Heartbreaking.” Confederacy; her own revealing missteps — Lazarre
—Elie Wiesel describes her journey from silence to consciousness
$10 paper and a commitment to action. As personal as this story
is, it is a remarkably incisive account of how percep-
The Very Rich tions of racial difference lie at the heart of the history
Hours of Adrienne and culture of America. “An important affirmation of
Monnier wa a rw rh ioit re mw oo mm ,a n h's a s lo cv re o s o sef d h oe vr e r b .”l a c —k A s lo icn es . W J aa ln ke e r .Lazarre,
ADRIENNE MONNIER Advertised in the Feminist Bookstore Network’s Fall
Translated with an
Catalog. $17.95 cl, 0-8223-1826-1.
introduction by
Richard McDougall
Introduction by
Brenda Wineapple
“A work that radiates MIT PRESS
intelligence and How often have we not been satisfied with physi-
grace.. . . An ample cal spaces — wondering if they couldn't be more
p ero ar .t ”r a —it N o ewf. .. Y a on rk Times p str ra uct ci tc ia nl g o Hr e rm o Pr re a c tb ie ca eu t eif du itl e? d T bh ye A Frr ac nh cit ee scc at : HR ue gc hon es-
$23 paper examines how the introduction of women to the main
body of architecture might bring about a reconstruc-
Conversations with Maryse Condé tion of the orders that shape architectural production
FRANÇOISE PFAFF and consumption. It's packaged as a text book but will
An exploration of the life and art of Maryse Condé, who be a great addition to those who collect sturdy art/
first won international acclaim for Segu, a novel about architecture books. Essays from twelve American and
West African experience and the slave trade. European architects reflect on the nature of critical
$15 paper/$35 cloth practice and its relation to architecture. Lots of
pictures too! $35 cl, 0-262-08245-4.
Searching for Saleem
An Afghan Woman’s Odyssey NEW YORK UNIVERSITY PRESS
FAROOKA GAUHARI “Isn't it interesting,” she mused with a sarcastic
Foreword by Nancy Dupree grin, “how all of a sudden we're perceived with so
A first-person account of a national tragedy that much power that everyone wants our votes, 70t.” In
interrupted daily life in Afghanistan after the communist The Lavender Vote: Lesbians, Gay Men, and Bisexu-
coup of April 1978. als in American Electoral Politics, Mark Hertzog
$35 cloth G examines lesbians, gay men and bisexuals as a force
in American elections. He contrasts the differences in
At bookstores. University of Nebraska Press demographics, attitudes and voting behavior
publishers of Bison Books Lincoln NE * 800-755-1105 between these groups and the rest of the voting
November /December 1996 110
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsERIO I Á
w
population. This is a timely book to have for the
upcoming elections. $18.95 pb, 0-8147-3530-4.
Your John: The Love Letters of Radclyffe Hall
edited by Joanne Glasgow is the first publication of
original writing by Hall in 50 years. This is a selection
of Hall's love letters to Evguenia Souline, a white NORTHEASTERN UNIVERSITY PRESS
Russian émigré with whom Hall fell in love in the Books from The National Museum of Women in
summer of 1934. These letters continued until 1942, the Arts are now available through Northeastern
and this collection reveals how these letters also University Press. Though their new title may be too
caused pain for Una Troubridge, Hall's lover. Adver- narrow in focus for some stores, it will be of interest
tised in the Feminist Bookstore Network’s Fall to those with strong art sections. At Century’s End:
Catalog. $24.95 cl, 0-8147-3092-2. Norwegian Artists and the Figurative Tradi-
Feminism and Islam: Legal and Literary tion—-1880/1990 edited by Susan Fisher Sterling, Anne
Perspectives edited by Mai Yamani illustrates how Wichstrøm and Toril Smit, offers feminist interpreta-
women in Islamic societies have become actively tions of the art of Harriet Backer, Kitty Kielland and
involved not only in learning their rights under the Asta Nørregaard. Full color plates of their work is also
sharia (Islamic Law) but in rereading this law to included. $28.95 pb, 0-940979-32-2.
improve their status and gain increased equality and Elisabeth Schwarzkopf by Alan Jefferson is the
freedom. $19.95 pb, 0-8147-9681-8; $60 cl, -9680-X, first full-length biography of this internationally
December. renowned soprano. She was a preeminent performer
Critical Race Feminism: A Reader edited by in both opera and Lieder for three decades. $29.95 cl,
Adrien Katherine Wing reveals how the historical 1-55553-272-1.
experiences and contemporary realities of women of Hearing the names of Eve and Jezebel invoked to
color are profoundly influenced by a legacy of deny women suffrage and justify women’s subjuga-
racism and sexism that is neither linear nor logical. tion, Elizabeth Cady Stanton decided to scrutinize
Contributors include Anita Hill, Lani Guinier, and reinterpret Biblical passages relating to women.
Regina Austin, Patricia Williams and over three In 1895 Stanton published The Woman’s Bible, a con-
dozen other women seeking to ensure that their troversial critique of the Bible, arguing that far from
perspectives on race, power, law and politics in the being the word of God, “these degrading ideas of
U.S. will never again be distorted or ignored. $24.95 woman emanated from the brain of man.” Advertised
pb, 0-8147-9309-6, December. in the Feminist Bookstore Network’s Fall Catalog.
E $15.95 pb, 1-55553-162-8.
l OHIO UNIVERSITY PRESS
|
! Recollections of Anaïs Nin: By Her Contempo-
Also of interest: Feminizing Venereal Disease: raries edited by Benjamin Franklin V presents Nin
The Body of the Prostitute in Nineteenth-Century through the eyes of 26 people who knew her. They
Medical Discourse, Mary Spongberg ($40 cl, short include Anatole Broyard, Valerie Harms and Deena
discount, 0-8147-8060-1), The Politics of Survivor- Metzger. This is a fine companion piece to Nin’s
ship: Incest, Women’s Literature, and Feminist diaries. $14.95 pb, 0-8214-1165-9; $29.95 cl, -1164-0,
Theory, Rosaria Champagne ($35 cl, short discount, December.
Volume 19 Number 4 111 November /December 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
OXFORD UNIVERSITY PRESS Smith ($19.95 pb, 0-7914-3106-1; $59.50 cl, -3105-3),
Graced with 60 rare photographs, Art and Affec- Women in Medical Education: An Anthology of
tion: A Life of Virginia Woolf by Panthea Reid Experience edited by Delese Wear ($20.95 pb, 0-7914-
illuminates the life of one of the great voices of mod- 3088-X; $62.50 cl, -3087-1).
ern literature. Reid draws on a wealth of original
documents to shed light on how the twin desires to
write and to be loved drove Woolf all her life. Reid is |
particularly insightful on Woolf's relationship with 1
her sister, Vanessa, and Vanessa’s influence on Woolf’s UNIVERSITY OF ARIZONA PRESS
writing. Advertised in the Feminist Bookstore For those who enjoy nature writing and reflective
Network's Fall Catalog. $30 cl, 0-19-510195-2. memoir, Bringing the Mountain Home by SueEllen
OST FA T NE E W U N YIV OE RR KS I T PY RESS WC goa am t y p ,m b Pe el rl i e s x tis ic ni t ea e , d t T r — re ua s d u D gr iee ns. i g r ,eJ , u G s E rt q a nut i dh p ee m u r ec ,no tn M,t e isFn eit rns yd ,ip n a g Pg ae yt ih na el gone
Between the Flag and the Banner: Women in Attention to Detail, Wildflowers, Wild Animals, Fear,
Israeli Politics edited by Yael Yishai is the first com- Stunned by Beauty, and so on — holding a careful
prehensive study of the political life of Israeli women balance of what's good and what's precarious about
and looks at political participation, political identity, being in nature. $14.95 pb, 0-8165-1617-0.
women’s political organizations and public policy Also of interest: Mexican Cinema/Mexican
regarding women. $17.95 pb, 0-7914-3128-2; $54.50 cl, Woman: 1940-1950, Joanne Hershfield. $16.95 pb, short
-3127-4, December. discount, 0-8165-1637-5; $39.95 cl, short discount, -1636-7.
Also of interest: Women and Minorities in
American Professions edited by Joyce Tang and Earl UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO PRESS
Fans of Signs reprints and the scientific research
CARLETON o tof kSa nl oly w K ao bh ouls tt e d Gt e n a dn ed r H ane dle n S c L ieo nn tg ifin ico Aw uil tl h ob re i t yhappy
UNIVERSITY edited by Barbara Laslett, Evelyn Hammonds, Long-
[N D ino and Kohlstedt. Topics range from mathematics,
anthropology, philosophy, computers, and biology to
social concerns, lesbians and psychology, and Black
feminism and social construction. $19.95 pb, 0-226-
CHANGING WOMEN, 46918-2; $30 cl, -46917-4.
CHANGING HISTORY It’s an election year, so they're all coming out (as
A Bibliography of the History it were) — those books on women and the vote. Add
of Women in Canada to the list this new one by Kristi Andersen After
Diana Pedersen Suffrage: Women in Partisan and Electoral Politics
Here is an up-to-date biblio- Before the New Deal which gives an account of both
graphic guide to the scholarship the accomplishments and disappointments experi-
O no rn eg na n tiC z ea d sn uua n bd d ji e ea r c n tb r ow a hd eo am y dete i n n p ge’s r st ,i - h ais nt dory. e pn bc , e d 0 - 2b 2y 6 - 0w 1o 9m 57e -n 8 . in the decade after suffrage. $13.95
accompanied by author and subject indices, it is accessible Tomorrow, God Willing: Self-Made Destinies
and comprehensive—an indispensable resource for students, in Cairo by Unni Wikan, reads like a novel but is the
scholars, teachers, librarians and researchers. moving real-life portrait of Umm Ali — a mother of
F Io Sr Bm Nat: :8 . 05" - 8 x 8 611 2" 9-280-8 paper $29.95 eight children, the wife of a man who abuses her and
WOMEN’S EXPERIENCE SERIES #9 Order our catalogue today a woman living in extreme poverty. Despite this, Ali
Tel. (613)520-3740 Fax. (613)520-2893 1-800-320-4606 maintains some level of self-respect and an unwaver-
email: jsloan@ccs.carleton.ca ing belief that she can improve her situation. $17.95
pb, 0-226-89835-0.
112
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termspmr
= tin RAAI I A
Employing a range of cultural sources, from facing drunken hunters outside her isolated cabin and
magical spells and medical texts to astrological horo- more. These essays ultimately ask the question — can
scopes and dream interpretation, Bernadette J. women learn to travel alone, on roads and in their daily
Brooten examines female homoeroticism in the lives without fear? $14.95 pb, 0-252-06534-4.
ancient Roman world in Love Between Women: Early The Unruly Voice: Rediscovering Pauline Eliza-
Christian Responses to Female Homoeroticism. beth Hopkins edited by John Cullen Gruesser
From brutal clitoridectomies for women who dis- explores the literary and journalistic career of Pauline
played “masculine desires” to social support for E. Hopkins, a turn-of-the-century African American
woman-woman marriages, Brooten gives a tour of the writer who was editor-in-chief of the Colored American
lives and beliefs of ancient Mediterranean peoples. Magazine, though it was not acknowledged on the
Advertised in the Feminist Bookstore Network’s Fall masthead. She wrote short fiction, novels, non-fiction
Catalog. $34.95 cl, 0-226-07591-5. articles and a play believed to be the first by an African
A American woman. Versatile and politically commit-
l ` ted, she was fired when the magazine was bought by
| an ally of Booker T. Washington who disliked her
! editorial stands and unconciliatory politics. $16.95 pb,
UNIVERSITY OF GEORGIA PRESS 0-252-06554-9.
Because I Remember Terror, Father, I Remember I can only say, wow! It's this kind of book that I
You by Sue William Silverman is a harrowing memoir find not only interesting but an off-beat and quirky,
of incest and survival. To all outward appearances, it though worthy, addition to the memoirs or spiritual-
was a normal middle-class family, but at home Silver- ity section of any women’s bookstore. In Betrayal of
man’s family was a place of horror. Her father — a the Spirit: My Life Behind the Headlines of the Hare
successful banker and high-ranking government offi- Krishna Movement, Nori Muster recounts the story
cial — abused her from age 4 to 18. Her mother’s of her life in the Hare Krishna movement since 1977.
complicity in silence of actions she couldn't stop and her For more than ten years, she worked as a public
sister's aloofness left Silverman bereft of a sense of self. relations secretary and editor of the organization's
Happily, she’s able to come to some sense of recovery. newspaper. It’s an insider’s view of drug dealing,
Advertised in the Feminist Bookstore Network's Fall weapons stockpiling, deceptive fundraising, child
Catalog. $19.95 pb, 0-8203-1870-1. abuse and murder. Though she has formally left the
Woman of Color, Daughter of Privilege: movement, she is still a believer. It may not be feminist
Amanda America Dickson, 1849-1893 by Kent but it does offer a rare look into the world of those
Anderson Leslie is the true story of a slave who women dressed in orange who put flowers in your
became the wealthiest Black woman in the South. hands at the airport in search of spare change. $24.95
$14.95 pb, 0-8203-1871-X. cl, 0-252-02263-7.
Writing Mothers, Writing Daughters: Tracing the
UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS PRESS Maternal in Stories by American Jewish Women by
The Lonely Other: A Woman Watching America Janet Handler Burstein analyzes memoirs, autobiogra-
by Diana Hume George chronicles the life of a woman phies, short stories and novels examining how
constantly facing new amazements. In this collection of immigrant daughters “translated” their mothers’
creative non-fiction, George recounts her life as a white stories into the vernacular of their own American expe-
teenage bride on an Indian reservation, as an adult riences. Writers discussed include Anzia Yezierska,
Volume 19 Number 4 113 November /December 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Emma Goldman, Tillie Olsen, Grace Paley, Adrienne revealing three generations of a cursed family. $14 pb,
Rich, Erica Jong and Kim Chernin. Advertised in the 0-8032-7963-9; $30 cl, -2913-5.
Feminist Bookstore Network’s Fall Catalog. $14.95 pb, Conversations with Maryse Condé by Françoise
0-252-06555-7; $34.95 cl, 0-252-02252-4. Pfaff is an exploration of the life and art of Maryse
Also of interest: The Entangling Net: Alaska’s Condé, who first won international acclaim for Segu,
Commercial Fishing Women Tell Their Lives, a novel about West African experience and the slave
Leslie Leyland Fields. $16.95 pb, 0-252-06565-4; trade. Her writings — novels, plays, essays, stories
$34.95 cl, -02220-3. and children’s books — have led her to an increas-
ingly important role within Africa and throughout the
UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA PRESS world. $15 pb, 0-8032-8743-7; $35 cl, -3713-8.
In Resisting State Violence: Radicalism, Gender, Also of interest: Automatic Woman: The Repre-
& Race in U.S. Culture, Joy James takes the conver- sentation of Women in Surrealism, Katherine
gence of race, gender and class as a fundamental Conley ($35 cl, short discount, 0-8032-1474-X), Cather
trajectory and offers an account of a world in which the Studies, Volume 3 edited by Susan Rosowski ($45 cl,
United States functions as the political-police center. short discount, 0-8032-3920-3, December) and Covered
James examines the prevalence of racist violence in U.S. Wagon Women, Volume 3: Diaries and Letters from
policies, making connections between seemingly the Western Trails, 1851 edited and compiled by
disparate themes and events, and linking them to Kenneth L. Holmes ($13 pb, 0-8032-7287-1).
global and U.S. domestic politics. She creates a picture Now in paperback: Claiming Breath by Native
of a nation that consistently uses dehumanization to American writer Diane Glancy. $12 pb, 0-8032-7066-6.
normalize and rationalize violence in foreign policy, all Available again: Song of Rita Joe: Autobiography
the while creating a domestic climate that pathologizes of a Mi'kmaq Poet, Rita Joe. $16 pb, 0-8032-7594-3.
Blackness and sexuality, portraying those most vulner-
able to violence as its carriers. Foreword by Angela Y.
Davis. Advertised in the Feminist Bookstore
Network's Fall Catalog. $18.95 pb, 0-8166-2813-0.
UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA PRESS
UNIVERSITY OF MISSOURI PRESS A generation of educated African American
Lost Women, Banished Souls is a collection of women emerged in the 1890s to become, in effect,
stories by Garnett Kilberg Cohen capturing the voices diplomats to the white community after the disen-
of a variety of women who share one main charac- franchisement of Black men. In Gender & Jim Crow:
teristic — the sense of loss. These stories explore such Women and Politics of White Supremacy in North
social issues as domestic violence, teenage pregnancy Carolina, 1896-1920 Glenda Elizabeth Gilmore
and child-rearing after divorce. This is Cohen’s first argues that the ideology of white supremacy embod-
book. $16.95 pb, 0-8262-1073-2. ied in the Jim Crow laws of the turn-of-the-century
profoundly reordered society and within this envi-
UNIVERSITY OF NEBRASKA PRESS ronment, Black women crafted an enduring tradition
Rue Ordener, Rue Labat is a moving memoir by of political activism. $17.95 pb, 0-8078-4596-5.
distinguished French philosopher, Sarah Kofman. Her
father was a rabbi of a small synagogue who was UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA PRESS
dragged from their Paris home and transported to Sometimes a book comes into my hands and I
Auschwitz. This eloquent story recalls her family and can't help but moan (o/h god, hardcover, expensive,
father in the years before the war and turns to the academic and way too narrow in focus). One look at the
terrors and confusion of her childhood in Paris during table of contents in this one, though, and I actually
the German occupation. $10 pb, 0-8032-7780-6. got excited. Old Norse Images of Women by Jenny
Slander by Linda Lê is a novel whose narrator Jochens is filled with considerations of fertility
has distanced herself from Vietnamese society and her goddesses, Valkyries, Sibyls, goddesses, magic,
family. Her story is an exercise in clear-eyed fury warrior women, prophetesses and sorceresses,
November /December 1996 114
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFRENI A
avengers and more. Oh sure, it’s still an academic
study (and expensive and hardcover) but if you have a
customer base who likes anything related to goddesses
or mythology and ancient women’s folklore, I'd give
this book a second look. $39.95 cl, 0-8122-358-1.
WAYNE STATE UNIVERSITY PRESS
UNIVERSITY OF TORONTO PRESS Originally published by Humanities Press in 1985,
Based on more than 30 interviews, Fiona Nelson’s Women’s Liberation and the Dialectics of Revolution:
book, Lesbian Motherhood: An Exploration of Reaching for the Future by Raye Dunayevskaya is a
Canadian Lesbian Families, explores the many aspects rich collection of 35 years of Raye Dunayevskaya’s
and stages of lesbian motherhood through the lives of writings, based on active participation, correspon-
two groups: those raising children conceived in prior dence, interviews and meetings. Dunayevskaya
heterosexual relationships and those raising children (1910-1987) founded the philosophy of Marxist-
conceived in lesbian relationships. These experiences of Humanism in the United States and was the author of
mothering are often strikingly different. Included is a Rosa Luxemborg, Women’s Liberation, and Marx's Philoso-
directory of Canadian resources for lesbian parents. phy of Revolution among other titles. $15.95 pb, short
Advertised in the Feminist Bookstore Network's Fall discount, 0-8143-2655-2.
Catalog. $18.95 pb, 0-8020-7135-X; $50 cl, -0765-1.
UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON PRESS
|
The 37 women who competed for the U.S. in Los '
Angeles in 1932 catapulted the Olympic Games and YALE UNIVERSITY PRESS
women’s athletics into the nation’s consciousness. In Working mothers today confront conflicting
Their Day In The Sun: Women of the 1932 Olympics, demands on their time and energy as well as conflicting
Doris H. Pieroth’s interviews with the athletes and ideas about how they should behave: they must be
observers, along with quotes from journalists Damon nurturing and unselfish with their children but com-
Runyon and Paul Gallico, reveal the extraordinary petitive and ambitious at work. Sharon Hays addresses
courage and stamina it took to challenge the barriers this contradiction in The Cultural Contradictions of
in a world abounding with stereotypes about women. Motherhood, arguing that ideas about “appropriate
Advertised in the Feminist Bookstore Network’s Fall mothering” stem from a fundamental ambivalence
Catalog. $16.95 pb, 0-295-97554-7; $30 cl, -97553-9. about a system based on the competitive pursuit of
individual interests. Advertised in the Feminist Book-
UNIVERSITY PRESS OF FLORIDA
store Network's Fall Catalog. $25 cl, 0-300-06682-1.
UPF has two books this season that would be C'est livre en française — Écritures de Femmes:
good in women’s studies sections — especially in an Nouvelles Cartographies, compilé et edité par Mary
area of study often overlooked, namely women in Ann Caws, Mary Jean Green, Marianne Hirsch et
Egypt. Unfortunately they are both expensive and Ronnie Scharfman. This is an anthology of writings in
short discount so I just mention them. The Mobiliza- French by 20th century women. It promises to be a
tion of Muslim Women in Egypt, Ghada Hashem dazzling array of literary treasures and recommended
Talhami ($39.95 cl, 0-9130-1429-8) and Doria Shafik, fo0r t-hos3e w0ho0 ha-ve 0 Fra6nco4pho1ne 2cust-om8ers.. $30 pOb,
Egyptian Feminist: A Woman Apart, Cynthia Nelson
Volume 19 Number 4 115 November /December 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsGOD'S God's Self-Confident Religion, Feminism,
DAUGHTERS Early Christianity and the (Studies in the Fa a mn id ly ,t h Re e lF igam ionil ,y
Liberation of Women and Culture series)
Anne Jensen Anne Carr and Mary Stewart Van Leeuwen, editors
Paper $34.00 Paper $33.00
Contributors to this volume analyze the
Reworks "older portraits of women in impact of feminism on the experience of family
early Christianity in such a way that these women life in its religius dimension. Contributors include
can now be seen as strong, powerful, and Margaret Lamberts Bendroth, Pamela Couture, Toinette
influential figures in the development of Christian M. Eugene, Tikva Frymer-Kensky, Christine Gudorf,
faGith randa pdractuice.a"-Ktareen Jo STorcjesehn, oTheo Clla rem o|nt Bonnie Miller-McLemore, Sally B. Purvis, Rosemary
Radford Ruether, and others.
Dictionary of
"You H aovfe YStoeuprt POlaucte " [7 |g. fsuA
_ Letty M. Russell and J. Shannon
Clarkson, editors A History of Women and
Cloth $39.00 Religion in America :
Susan Hill Lindley |. £%
Cloth $35.00 “
C hT urh ce h e sS t anai dn e Td he- iG rlass Ceiling Lydia's Impatient Sisters Sia
Women Pastors A Feminist Social History | ffs" Set»
t3 PSa all py e rB. P $u 1rv 2i .s 00 Luise Schottroff Foreword by o Df o r oE tha er e l y So e llC e Ch lor ti hs t $i 2a 9n .00ity
The Arts of Ministry Saving Work
Feminist-Womanist Feminist Practices of
Approaches Theological Education
Christie C. Neuger WESTMINSTER Paper $1 Re3be.cc0a 0S. Chopp
JOHN KNOX PRESS
Louisville, KY 40202-1396
116 Volume 19 Number 4
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
i + i lili..
Compiled by Jenn Tust intimate look at her own life while pondering how
ADDISON WESLEY women can attain the balance between fulfilling our
own needs and participating in the world. Short major
There are not a lot of feminist titles in AW’s Fall city author tour. $18 cl, 0-8070-7090-4.
catalog, but there are some strong titles if you have an Doctors of Conscience: The Struggle to Provide
education or teaching section. (We added a section Abortion Before and After Roe v. Wade by Carole
labelled “teaching” a couple of years ago; books sell Joffe is new in paper. Although I believe that all femi-
well from there.) nist stores should carry this book, I haven't sold much
A Life In School: What the Teacher Learned by on the abortion “controversy” here. Sounds like a
Jane Tompkins ($22.95 cl, 0-201-91212-0) is a “pain- good summary of the struggle, though. $14 pb,
ful and exhilarating story of spiritual awakening” by 0-8070-2101-6.
a teacher who rebels against conventional educa- Feminism and Religion, Rita M. Gross. How
tion. The Manufactured Crisis by David Berliner have 30 years of feminist thought affected religious
and Bruce Biddle will be available in paper in Octo- institutions around the world? Gross examines how
ber ($13 pb, 0-201-441969). They argue against the ritual, theology and leadership roles have changed in
neo-conservative agenda that is prepared to write the five major (patriarchal) religions. She also looks at
off public education. the “new religion” of feminist spirituality. $16.95 pb,
If you sell gay biography, you might want to stock 0-8070-6785-7; $40 cl, -6894-9.
Alvin Ailey: A Life in Dance, by Jennifer Dunning. It
sh6ou2ld 6 rec0eiv7e 1a .lo t of— revTiewr atutendtioyn. $3 0 M cl, 0i-l20l1-s il:
Antigone Books/Tucson AZ
BALLANTINE Rena R e Kna o’s r nPr ro em icis he: A G e S lt io sr sy e n o f w Si is tt her s H in e a tA hus ec rh w i Dtz u, ne
Now in paper: The Oldest Sin ($5.99 mass, 0-345- Macadam. This memoir by a survivor of Auschwitz
40202-2, December) by Ellen Hart, the author of the tells of her promise to take care of her sister, a connec-
Jane Lawless Mystery series, continues the series fea- tion that ultimately made it possible for them to endure
turing food critic Sophie Greenway. The Hundred the horrors. $14 pb, 0-8070-7071-8.
Secret Senses, Amy Tan. ($6.99 mass, 0-804-11109-X, Life in a Day, Doris Grumbach. Novelist and
December, Ivy.) Women Who Run with the Wolves, essayist Grumbach, now 77 years old, leads the reader
Clarissa Pinkola Estes. ($7.99 mass, 0-345-40987-6, through one day in her life effectively “seeing the
January.) —Dorothy Holland world in a grain of sand.” $17 cl, 0-8070-7088-2.
My Soul Is a Witness: African American
BEACON Women’s Spirituality edited by Gloria Wade-
Approaching Eye Level, Vivian Gornick. These Gayles is now in paper. This history of the life of the
are essays on loneliness, the desire for independence, spirit in African American women’s lives includes
feminism and connecting. Gornick gives us an Maya Angelou, Nikki Giovanni, Rita Dove and
Volume 19 Number 4 117 November /December 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Sonia Sanchez. It is the first such collection. $15 pb, Project, shows how women of all races have, indi-
0-8070-0935-0. vidually and together, challenged narrow definitions
of womanhood and changed history. Looks very
essays exploring aging, homophobia and rape in good. $16.95 trade, March, Berkley.
Rooted Against the Wind. She’s a professor at Spel- She Came to the Castro, an Emma Victor Mys-
man College, and she bravely tells about how her tery by Mary Wings, is a brand-new mystery
students confront her homophobia. She also talks featuring San Francisco lesbian P.I. Emma Victor.
about interracial marriage and the obstacles faced by ($21.95 cl, 0-425-15629-X, April, Prime Crime.) Prom-
young Black scholars. $20 cl, 0-8070-0938-5. ised Land by Connie Willis and Cynthia Felice. I can’t
— Patty Callaghan tell from the catalog blurb. ($21.95 cl, 0-441-00405-9,
Brigit Books February, Ace.)
Now in paper: Journey into Motherhood:
BERKLEY Writing Your Way to Self-Discovery by Leslie Kirk
The American Women’s Almanac: An Inspiring Campbell. ($14 trade, 1-57322-576-2, January, River-
and Irreverent Women’s History by Louise Bernikow, head.) A guided journal to help expectant mothers
in association with the National Women’s History explore the thoughts, feelings and discoveries of their
“This book is both an
important revelation and a ANATOMY
OF THE
SPIRIT
“Caroline Myss is a blessing...
Myss can do both.”
“Anatomy of the Spirit is a rare
thinker.” THE SEVEN STAGES
OF POWER
AND HEALING
RESIS
MYSS, PH.D.
Harmon
a member of the Crown Publishing Group
http://www.randomhouse.com/
118 Volume 19 Number 4
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms: S pFeminist Bookstore News
Rll. IL la| „JlI l
unique experience of pregnancy. Campbell’s a strong Illustrations (color and black-and-white) of images
feminist and single mom, which makes this book a from modern culture echo symbols found in fairy
real asset to our shelves. Toward Amnesia, Sarah Van tales. $16 pb, 0-374-52487-4. — Patty Callaghan
Arsdale. ($11 trade, 1-57322-577-0, January, River- Brigit Books
head.) “When her lover of five years leaves her for
another woman, a young marine biologist is lost and HARPERSAN FRANCISCO
bereft....” The Cloister Walk, Kathleen Norris. ($12 After a 13 year gestation, Marcia Falk's Book of
trade, 1-57322-584-3, April, Riverhead.) After spend- Blessings: New Jewish Prayers for Daily Life, the
ing two residencies at a Benedictine monastery, Norris Sabbath, and the New Moon Festival has finally
takes the reader through one liturgical year — rituals, arrived from HarperSanFrancisco. Long awaited in
prayers, daily activities. Norris discovered a different Jewish feminist circles, where Marcia Falk’s non-
perspective on family, community and spirituality hierarchical, non-patriarchal re-visioning of Jewish
during her residence. Doing It For Ourselves: prayer is well known, this book re-creates blessings,
Success Stories of African-American Women In meditations and poetry in English and Hebrew (and
Business, Donna Ballard. ($12 trade, 0-425-15613-3, some Yiddish), with extensive commentary. The
February, Riverhead.) Inspiring and engaging conver- poetry is all by women and the blessings are gay
sa wtion os m with e nsuc .ce ss f —ul A Dfri ocan r oAm ter hica yn bu si Hnes os lland i in s c l gu is vi ev ne i(e n. g . t h t rh ee e F Hr ei bd ra ey w n vig eh rst i o n“B s:l e s fs oin r g a t h we o m B ae nlo v ae nd d” a
FARRAR STRAUS GIROUX hm ea fn t, y f po rr i c et w (o $ 5 0w ),o m te hn is a 5n 0d 0 + f o pr a g t ew o b o om ke n w). i l lD e bs ep i t ae the
First Generations: Women in Colonial America, resource for Jewish feminists for years to come. A
Carol Berkin. Berkin, professor of history at Baruch warning: HarperSanFrancisco announced this book a
College, gives us a much needed multicultural history year ago (at a substantially lower price) and did not
of Native, African and European women of 17th- and reannounce it for this Fall, so if you were on hold with
18th-century America (by “America” I think the pub- Harper any time during the last year, chances are your
lisher means the U.S.). She looks at women’s roles as backorder was cancelled and you'll need to reorder
wives, mothers, household keepers, workers and rebels. (0-06-062340-3). — Rose Katz
It sounds like the book may reclaim herstory in a read- A Room of One's Own
able way. The cover as shown in the catalog is a little too
scholarly looking for my taste, but it depicts African,
Nativ e G oa in nd g E Au lr l o p te ha en W w ao ym : e Tn e. e n$2 ag3 e c Gl, ir 0 ls- ’8 0 T9 a0 l- e4 s5 6 o1 f- 3 . Sex, il: l
Romance and Pregnancy, Sharon Thompson. In these HEALTH COMMUNICATIONS
interviews, 400 girls reveal their thoughts about their Are we the only ones growing weary of chicken
own sexuality and experiences with love, sex, birth soup? Well, there's an October title that you'll want to
control and motherhood. An important study. $13 pb, stock, even if you are full of soup. Chicken Soup For
0-8090-1599-4. the Woman’s Soul has a wide array of authors, includ-
From the Beast to the Blonde: On Fairy Tales ing Maya Angelou and Bessie Delaney. The catalog
and Their Tellers, Marina Warner. Warner (Alone of All notes that “part of the profits will be donated to
Her Sex) explores how changing attitudes toward organizations promoting breast cancer research.”
women affect their roles in fairy tales from ancient $12.95 pb, 1-55874-4150. —Trudy Mills
stories to the Brothers Grimm to Angela Carter. Antigone Books/Tucson AZ
Volume 19 Number 4 119 November /December 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
LITTLE, BROWN
Strategies and Best American Gay Fiction: 1996 edited by Brian
Subversions Bouldrey. If you carry gay men’s fiction, a few of these
are in order. $13.95 pb, 0-316-10317-9.
SHE CAN READ Giving Voice to Myself: A Memory Book for
FBeibmliicnails t N Rareraadtiinvge Strategies for W Sarom gee nn t . P Le og o k S st r le ie kp e, aw a gt ie fr tc o il to er ms b fy o r C l aa u gd eia n e K raa lr a ab uic dience.
EMILY CHENEY Journal format provides headings for writing topics
o“ c f.. i .a s n rm e ae d x i nc ae gl n l e sdn tt r a tl bi en gik ib ea slg ie c f rao olf m f s e ttm hu ei n d i bs i rt e o s ac d.r ei r ti I- ts application accom p Ca on ui re td s b oy f w Loa vt ee :r c o Al o r Ns o. v $ el1 l9 a. 9 5 & c Sl t, o r0 i- e8 s,2 1 2 E- ll2 e2 n43-0.
field of feminist studies to the biblical Gilchrist. Gilchrist can always be counted on to tell
y text is...quite insightful.” — FERNANDO F. SEGOVIA a s e g llo o d h ast ro dr cy o. v If e r y o fu i cd to in o’t n ,k n o sw ti c h ke r to or d oo nn e’t . o $ft 2e 3n .95 c|,
1-56338-167-2 192 pp $18.00 pbk 0-316-31478-1.
LA AD NY D W TI HSD E O M SA, G J ESESUS, The Weight of Water, Anita Shreve. Shreve is
M Me att tap hh ewor ’s a Gn od s p S eo lcial Context in a dn oo nt eh e br e t s to el ri d i ns t o pr ay pt ee rl ble acr k, a fn od r h ue sr . Tb ro yok s o n h e a v oe r a tl ww oay s if you
CELIA M. DEUTSCH sell hardcover fiction. $22.95 cl, 0-316-78997-6.
This original, imaginative study focuses Life Support: Three Nurses on the Front Lines,
on why Matthew uses Lady Wisdom as a Suzanne Gordon. Journalist Suzanne Gordon follows
3 f i lg ifu er e a no df ts ep ae ce hch in g f o ar n ds p wec hu ola mti o n th io s n s eJ re vs eu ss .’ three nurses at Boston's Beth Israel Hospital and
1-56338-163-X 240 pp $20.00 pbk reveals what she found. A possible gift item for
WOMEN SPEAK nurses. $23.95 cl, 0-316-32117-6.
Of God, Congregations, and Change Last Night in Paradise: Sex and Morals at the
JOANNA BOWEN GILLESPIE Century’s End, Katie Roiphe. The catalog copy prom-
Filled with women’s voices — women’s ises that this book will cause controversy. Here,
words and responses to questions about Roiphe reports what she has observed in sex educa-
j t 1h -e 5m 63s 3e 8lv -1es 0, 4 - 4G o d 22, 4 f a pi pth , $ 1 c 6o .0n 0g r peg ba ktions. tion classes, abstinence clinics, talks with teens and
interviews with educators and policy makers. I'm a
WOMAN INVISIBLE firm believer in having at least one copy of books by
FA em inP ie smrsonal Odyssey in Christian authors such as Katie Roiphe. There's always some-
MARGA BÜHRIG one eager to read them. $21.95 cl, 0-316-75439-0.
1 “...offers a clear and balanced introduc- —Mary Ellen Kavanaugh
tion to Christian feminist thought...” My Sisters’ Words/Syracuse NY
— Expository Times
1 1-56338-056-0 160 pp $12.95 pbk PUTNAM
SHERYL FRAGMENTED WOMEN Strega Nona: Her Story, as told to Tomie
F Wrag om men et F Ne am rri an ti is vt e s (Sub)Versions of Biblical dePaola, by Tomie dePaola, is a prequel to dePaola’s
„CHERYL EXUM Strega Nona series. This series is remarkable for many
| Subverts patriarchal readings of Hebrew reasons, one that is dear to me is that it shows a culture
| mBibulet etedx ts w byo m teeasnin’gs osutt o orthieersw i saend voices. o kf id ss t r ofon g a, ll s au gr ee s . w $o 1m 5.e 9n 5 — cl, w 0-it 3h 9o 9u -2t 2 8a 1n 8y -7 .apology. For
| 1-56338-018-8 224 pp $14.95 pbk Kitchen Table Wisdom: Stories that Heal by
Rachel Naomi Remen reminds us to look below the
surface and to remember that we are all connected.
F FE PT.ROI.N IBToYx P8R51E,S S V aINlleTyE R FNoArTgIeO, N PAAL 19482 This is a collection of modern-day parables designed
1-800-421-8874 to heal and connect. $22.95 cl, 0-57322-042-6,
24-hour Fax: 610-768-2107 Riverhead. —Dorothy Holland
November /December 1996 120
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
IÈ.:
lal AiR
ll-
RANDOM HOUSE
account of the rhetoric and strategies of both groups
The American Medical Association Complete and show how the mutual passion of these enemies is
Guide To Women’s Health is a comprehensive guide influencing electoral politics from the state houses to
for every stage of a woman's life. This accessible guide the White House. $25 cl, 0517701987.
will help readers take charge of their health. Special Still Unequal: The Shameful Truth About
features include: “Atlas of the Body” (in full color), a Women and Justice In America by Lorraine Dusky is
guide to preventative medicine with specific advice an investigation into America’s legal system and how
for four age groups and questions women should ask it undermines women’s progress. Dusky looks at the
their doctors. This book, developed by a woman profound sexism that still pervades the legal system,
gynecologist and a team of physicians, offers both the prejudice written into the law itself, and the stag-
in-depth coverage of women’s health concerns and gering levels of sexual harassment that exist in law
insights into how major health issues affect us. Adver- schools and law firms. Dusky documents her claims
tised in the Feminist Bookstore Network’s Fall with numerous studies and hundreds of interviews of
Catalog. $39.95 cl, 0679431225. women from all walks of life — Yale professors to rape
survivors. $27.50 cl, 0517593890.
A Woman's Guide to a Simpler Life by Andrea
Van Steenhouse is a thoughtful primer on how to clear
your mind and your closet and make space for what
you truly value in work, home, family, friendships
The Law of Love by Laura Esquivel (Like Water and traditions. $23 cl, 0517706989.
for Chocolate) is a cosmic love story that stretches How To Succeed In Business Without a Penis by
from the fall of Montezuma’s Mexico to the 23rd Karen Salmansohn is a humorous but serious advice
century. Azucena is an ”“astroanalyst,” a sort of book about getting ahead in the business world. $21
highly evolved psychotherapist, in the Mexico City
of the future. She ministers to the karmically chal-
lenged with the help of her Guardian Angel.
Azucena becomes caught in the brass ring of reincar-
nation, meets her Twin Soul but, after one night of
passion, the lovers are separated. Azucena searches Joan Tollifson relays her struggle to make sense
for Rodrigo across the galaxy, through her own past of her life and her spiritual awakening in Bare-Bones
lives. $25 cl, 0517706814. Meditation. Born with only one hand, she grew up
A novel based on the life of Pope Joan, a daring feeling different, found identity and purpose as a
woman who, disguised as a man, rose to rule Christi- bisexual lesbian and a disability rights activist, but
anity as the first and only woman ever to sit on the struggled with drug and alcohol addiction. She first
Throne of St. Peter, Pope Joan by Donna Woolfolk embraced Zen Buddhism then a very bare-bones form
Cross is a sweeping historical drama set against the of spirituality that has no form. This exuberant and
turbulent events of the ninth century. Highly recom- amazing testament is for the many people who don’t
mended. $25 cl, 0517593653. fit into the conventional molds of existing religious
In Perfect Enemies, Christopher Bull and John traditions. $14 pb, 0517887924.
Gallagher, twò senior reporters for The Advocate, trace The Planned Parenthood Women’s Health
the origins and growth of the religious right and the Encyclopedia is the authoritative reference from a
gay movement. The authors offer a comprehensive trusted name in women’s health care. It provides
Volume 19 Number 4 121 November /December 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
#] a Ti m eAUsTHORS
Marci eliane
Order from your K fOVOrH
F" Health
Tul Communications, Inc.’ carts a a 10 Open the
00) 441-5569 Spirits d a i the
complete information on health care and medicine, modern age. Rich, poor, Italian aristocrat, German
articles on complex women’s health issues and peasant — the shape of women’s lives during those
resources for women’s health clinics, organizations centuries was in a profound way the same. Hufton
and hospitals throughout the country. It offers both offers a portrait that encompasses women’s child-
viewpoints from medical and holistic perspectives hoods, their struggles to earn or ensure a dowry, the
and detailed summaries of important and controver- complex bonds between women and men, and
sial issues in women’s health care. Advertised in the women’s lives as mother, provider, widow, scholar,
Feminist Bookstore Network’s Fall Catalog. $22 pb, leader, witch, nun and prostitute. Advertised in the
0517888238. Feminist Bookstore Network's Fall Catalog. $35 cl,
0679450300.
Kennedy Fraser offers essays on women’s lives in
Zi lI!l Ornament and Silence. In these 13 essays, Fraser
explores the uniquely female voice and presence in
RH-Knopf literature and art. She reveals how the early sexual
Selected Stories by Alice Munro is a generous experiences of Virginia Woolf and Edith Wharton col-
selection of stories drawn from Munro’s seven collec- ored their emotions and their work and she considers
tions spanning almost 30 years. If you haven’t read the long life in exile of Nina Berberova. Fraser also
her, pick this up. She is the best short story writer writes of survivors such as feminist Germaine Greer,
writing today. $30 cl, 0679446273. the naturalist Miriam Rothchild and the New York
The Prospect Before Her: A History of Women haute couture designer Valentina. $25 cl, 0394585399.
in Western Europe, 1500-1800 by Olwen Hufton is the Clarissa Pinkola Estes’ new book The Dangerous
first of two volumes that explore women’s fate in Old Woman will not be coming out this Fall. No new
Western Europe from medieval times to the early date has been set.
November /December 1996 122 Volume 19 Number 4
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
lal JLI s|
fÅnl. sil + È
RH-Pantheon j century. Included in this volume are Vera Brittain,
Family: American Writers Remember Their commemorating the deaths of the men she loved in
Own edited by Sharon Sloan Fiffer and Steve Fiffer, the carnage of WWI; Emma Mashinini, who endured
with an afterward by Jane Smiley, is a collection by 18 imprisonment and torture as a labor organizer in
American writers recalling the family member who South Africa; Vijaya Lakshmi Pandit, the daughter of
had the strongest influence on their life and work. Indian aristocracy who became an architect of her
Included are Edwidge Danticat, Alice Hoffman, bell country’s independence movement; and Edith
hooks, Whitney Otto, Jayne Anne Phillips and Marion Mirante, the wise-cracking American whose passion
Winik. $23 cl, 0679442472. for justice took her to the opium trails of Burma.
A collection of stories, essays and conversations Advertised in the Feminist Bookstore Network’s Fall
by Toni Cade Bambara, Deep Sightings and Rescue Catalog. $16 pb, 0679751092.
Missions, is a rich selection of her work. Bambara
died last year of cancer at the age of 56. In her obituary
in the New York Times she was called “a major con- il;
tributor to the emerging genre of Black women’s
literature.” This collection will bring her work to those The story of Lisa See’s family is told in On Gold
already familiar with her writing and also to a new Mountain: The One-Hundred-Year Odyssey of My
generation of readers who will recognize it as a pre- Chinese-American Family. Starting with her great-
cursor to contemporary Black women’s literature. great-grandfather who arrived in the United States in
Advertised in the Feminist Bookstore Network’s Fall 1867, See constructs the chronicle of her family, a work
Catalog. $23 cl, 0679442502. that includes stories of racism, romance,
entrepreneurial genius, domestic heartache, secret
RH-Times marriages and sibling rivalries. $14 pb, 0679768521.
An accurate, up-to-date guide, Menopause by An Unquiet Mind by Kay Redfield Jamison, an
Isaac Schieff, will help women make smart choices authority on manic-depressive illness, is the story of
during this important life stage. It offers steps that can her own struggle with this illness. As she was pur-
be taken to reduce symptoms, explains the differences suing her psychiatric training, Jamison found
between natural and post-surgical menopause, sug- herself succumbing to the exhilarating highs and
gests times when hormone replacement therapy may paralyzing lows that afflicted many of her patients.
be the right choice, considers the roles of diet and While her disorder paid off in mercurial creativity
exercise, alternative therapies, and the “connection” and boundless energy, it also propelled her into
between menopause and depression, weight and loss spending sprees, episodes of violence and an
of libido. $15, 0812923189. attempted suicide. This is a powerful and candid
book that has the power to transform lives. $12 pb,
RH-Vintage 0679763309.
Written By Herself, Volume II edited by Jill Ker Virtually Normal by Andrew Sullivan, the editor
Conway is a sequel to her bestselling collection of of the New Republic, addresses a range of viewpoints
women’s autobiographical writing. Conway assem- about homosexuality. Sullivan draws on both his per-
bles English-speaking voices from three generations sonal experience and on rigorous arguments to
and four continents, voices that serve as paradigms of explore how a predominantly heterosexual society
women’s quests for personal and political power, should treat those citizens who love members of their
autonomy and inclusion over the course of the 20th own sex. $12 pb, 0679746145.
Volume 19 Number 4 123 November /December 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
In Thinking In Pictures: And Other Reports
from My Life with Autism, Temple Grandin, a gifted
animal scientist, delivers a report on autism written
= HOT STUFF from the unique, dual perspectives of a scientist and
an autistic person. What emerges is a story of an
extraordinary human being who bridges the gulf
between her condition and the non-autistic world and
Sne most excitingly rich and sheds light on the riddle of our common identity.
complex collection of love poetry Advertised in the Feminist Bookstore Network’s Fall
Catalog. $12 pb, 0679772898. —Sandi Torklidson
l’yve.ever read.”
A Room of One's Own
—LOUISE DESALVO,
author of VIRGINIA WOOLF and
CONCEIVED WITH MALICE Zi lfil:
ROUTLEDGE
DECEMBER TITLES
In White Trash: Race & Class in America editors
Annalee Newitz and Matt Wray compare stereotypes
with social reality, unmasking racial and social class
assumptions behind the term. Looks like a good book
on class. $17.95 pb, 0-415-91692-5; $55 cl, -91691-7.
In Live Sex Acts: Women Performing Erotic
Labor Wendy Chapkis draws on more than 50
interviews, looking at how competing political
discourses work concretely to frame policy and define
perceptions of AIDS, to mobilize women into oppos-
ing camps, and silence some agendas while
promoting others. $16.95 pb, 0-415-91288-1; $65 cl,
-91287-3.
Off White: Readings on Society, Race, and
Culture edited by Michelle Fine et al. brings a much-
needed analysis of the white racialization process to
the multicultural discussion. While some essays
tackle the privileges associated with whiteness, oth-
ers look at the possibilities that lie within multiracial
ethnic coalition work. $24.95 pb, 0-415-91302-0; $65
hnis is.more. than a. collection of cl, -91301-2.
poetry—this is the lesbian lyric, the Noted here before, Homo Economics has been
ballad/chant of the deepest feelings postponed until December 1996.
one woman can have for another.” In Sexual Justice: Democratic Citizenship and
the Politics of Desire, Morris Kaplan argues that the
—SUSIE BRIGHT achievement of equality for lesbian and gay citizens
is part of the unfinished business of modern democ-
S R IBNy v racy and develops a conception of 1/g rights that
ANO S4S Op pR S £ e rm ecp ogh nas ii tz ie os n p or fo t e qc ut ei eo rn ra eg la ai tn ios nt s hd ii ps sc .r i m $1i 6n .a 9t 5i o n p b ,a n 0d -415-
90515-X; $59.95 cl, -90514-1.
November /December 1996 124 Volume 19 Number 4
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
4f :
LÈil. : El.. F „JlI ;Îl
t
Race/Sex: Their Sameness, Difference and an historical treatment of ecofeminism in the U.S.
Interplay edited by Naomi Zack brings together a $16.95 pb, 0-415-91250-4; $65 cl, -91249-0.
combined discussion of racial and gender theory. Changing the Wor(1)d: Discourse, Politics and
$17.95 pb, 0-415-91590; $59.95 cl, -91589-9. the Feminist Movement by Stacey Young is a critique
The catalog copy says, Psychology and Sexual of the political science research and writing that has
Orientation: Coming to Terms by Janis Bohan been done on the women’s movement in the U.S. NB:
“strives to ‘come to terms’ with lesbian, gay, and The catalog specifically points out that one focus of
bisexual life and with the controversial scientific and the book is on feminist publishing and the books it has
sociocultural theories and arguments on the origin produced. $17.95 pb, 0-415-91377-2; $65 cl, -91376-4.
and meaning of homosexuality....” $18.95 pb, 0-415- —Mary Ellen Kavanaugh
91514-7; $59.95 cl, -91513-9. My Sisters’ Words/Syracuse NY
JANUARY TITLES
Three Plays by Mae West: Sex, The Drag, &
Pleasure Man edited by Lillian Schiessel. If you sell a ıl:
lot of plays, these resurrected plays by Mae West (who
knew she wrote?) may be for you. $16.95 pb, 0-415- Here are some titles that have slipped through
90933-3; $65 cl, -90932-5. the cracks that we think are important for feminist
Disabilities Studies Reader edited by Leonard bookstores.
Davis is the first of its kind — not a general reader, but
one for folks studying or working with any of the 15% ANCHOR
of our population who are called disabled. $24.95 pb, Handsome Heroines: Women as Men in
0-415-91471-1; $74.95 cl, -91470-1. Folklore is a collection of stories based on classic
In Transitions, Environments, Translations: folk tales from around the world with one thing in
International Feminisms in Contemporary Politics common: all of the protagonists are women who
edited by Joan Scott, scholars from Eastern Europe, masquerade as men. The women dress as men for
the former Soviet Union, South Africa, China, Iran, various reasons — to save king, country, kin and
India, Ethiopia and the U.S. consider feminism in their own lives or to get revenge, love and power.
their own cultures. Looks like a good addition to an Sometimes they just do it for fun. After receiving
International section. $18.95 pb, 0-415-91541-4; $65 recognition for their achievements as men, they
cl, -91540-6. reveal their true gender; this shatters the myth of the
FEBRUARY TITLES helpless female and thereby transforms their status
We Are Everywhere: A Historical Sourcebook as women forever. Looks great! $12.95 pb, 0-385-
in Gay and Lesbian Politics edited by Mark Blasius 48405-4.
a lin td er aS rh ya n ae n dP h pe sla yn c h p olr oe gs ie cn at l s d p oo culi mtic ea nl t, s h ti hst ao tr i tc ral a, c e l e tg hal e, BEACON
evolution of the lesbian and gay movement. Making Gender: The Politics and Erotics of
Although the catalog copy doesn’t make clear Culture by Sherry B. Ortner collects eight of Ortner’s
Whether or not an analysis of the works is included, essays illuminating 25 years of her analysis of
this looks like a great collection of original sources. women’s roles and the meaning of gender. In “The
$24.95 pb, 0-415-90858-0; $75 cl, -90858-2. Virgin and the State,” Ortner examines the origins of
Ecofeminist Natures: Race, Gender, and Trans- the idea of the protection of female purity and virgin-
national Environmental Politics by Noel Sturgeon is ity, and in “Borderland Politics and Erotics,” she looks
Volume 19 Number 4 125 November /December 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
at the entry of women into the world of high-altitude school systems. The Last Closet describes the strug-
Himalayan mountaineering. Also included is Ortner’s gles of these educators caught between their desire for
classic “Is Female to Male as Nature is to Culture?” $25 authenticity and their need for safety — a need that
cl, 0-8070-4632-9. forces most of them to hide a significant part of their
identity. $23.95 cl, 0-435-07005-3.
DOUBLEDAY
All stores better be stocking Alias Grace HENRY HOLT
Margaret Atwood’s new novel. Set in the 1840s, In Way Out of No Way: African American Short
Atwood takes us into the life and mind of Grace Marks Stories for Young Adults Jacqueline Woodson (Auto-
a “notorious killer” serving life of imprisonment for biography of a Family Photo) has gathered stories and
the murders of a wealthy landowner and his house- poems by her favorite writers to pass on to a new
keeper /mistress. $24.95 cl, 0-385-47571-3. generation. Here are many tones and moods, from the
In The History of Lesbian Hair Mary Dugger passion and violence of Sapphire’s poem “Wild
delivers a goofy view of the modern world in her les- Thing” to the new horizons of friendship in a chapter
bian “Contract with America.” Dugger utilizes an array from Jamaica Kincaid’s Annie John. This highly per-
of illustrated essays, diagrams and short takes on topics sonal anthology is a great writers’ gift of great writing.
such as “Patsy Cline and the Impact of Her Hair on $16.95, 0-8050-4570-8.
Lesbianism Since the 1950s” and “The PE Teacher.”
“Sheer comic genius.” —Karen Finley. I, on the other RIVERHEAD BOOKS
hand, was disappointed — such a great cover, but the The Armchair Activist: Simple Yet Powerful
inside left me bald! $10.95 pb, 0-385-48037-7. Ways to Fight the Radical Right by Felice N.
DUTTON S emch pw oa wr et rz a tn hd e rS eu az da en rn e w K it. h L fev acin tse ti os d de iss pig en l e d h y pto e and
In The Intimacy Dance: A Guide to Long-Term letters of protest to address vital issues such as censor-
Success in Gay and Lesbian Relationships Dr. Betty ship, deficit reduction, welfare, immigration, civil
Berzon draws on insights that she has gained since liberties, separation of church and state, education
her ground-breaking book Permanent Partners to and much more — all without leaving the house. The
provide specific and compassionate advice for ma- authors show how readers can decode the language
turing relationships of three years and longer, while of the radical right; discover important information
acknowledging the inevitable surprises and compli- about their elected officials; write letters to the gov-
cations our culture presents. Dr. Berzon provides ernment, the media and corporations; use the
sound and realistic advice for any couple interested telephone as a powerful activist tool; and create a
in a stable and rewarding life together. $24.95 cl, “virtual” coalition on-line. $12 pb, 1-57322-549-5.
0-525-94234-3.
VIKING
My First White Friend: Confessions on Race,
Zi lIil: Love, and Forgiveness by Patricia Raybon traces the
significant events in Raybon’s life — her childhood
HEINEMANN confusion about race, her discovery of sex and its
The Last Closet: The Real Lives of Lesbian and mythology in Black life, her first White friend, mar-
Gay Teachers by Rita M. Kissen tells the stories of riage and motherhood, her rediscovery of religion,
lesbian and gay educators as they struggle for dignity and her inspiration from such spiritual leaders as
in the face of homophobia. The stories in this book Ghandi and Martin Luther King, Jr. In a narrative that
come from over one hundred lesbian, gay and bisex- is part journal, part memoir and part social analysis,
ual women and men who are, or have been, teachers, Raybon explores her recent “journey from rage to
counselors, librarians and administrators across the racial reasoning.” Raybon discovers that racial recon-
country. Some of these teachers are so closeted they ciliation starts with individual willingness to love.
know no other gay or lesbian educators in their own $22.95 cl, 0-670-85956-7. —JT O
November /December 1996 126
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Index of Advertisers
AG&MBOORS -i sa ir n eiie aiiai 94 M3. Magazine... -rne ere ea 38
Alyson Publications .... <... 102 Modern Language Association ............. 100
Carleton University. Press... ... 0...10... 88 MUB Raek... iee Sa 70
Carleton University Press. ..............…..…. 112 Naiad o- ea ri a ae i 34
Calyx I g SS 92 Papier-Mache Press 0... N.A.. 18
Díana Manley >- aes 74 Viking Denguin... 1.0 re 32
Doubleday /Anchor. -4 35 o n 4 Pilgrim. Press... Te 106
Fine Print, Distributor... . 5. 9 Plain View Press... .... rrara 90
Gay Men’/s:BressU.K. 2, A.. e. 86 Pléides Records... ks Z1
GYnN/ Designs . 396 te aans t 72 Press Gang PIesS.. eri C3
Harmony /Crown .... +... e. 118 ROUNSdSS. ir i eie 24
Health Communications .................. 122 Third Woman Press... 10
Hilary/s Comfort Beads =... ... >... 73 Tor /Forge BOOKS... e et 62
Jora Publications. o e 98 SRIRIEY PYESS. o e a ata 120
Jane Evershed Card Collection... ...... C2 Scholarly Resources... e 12
Koen BOOK DIStibutors. .. 2. e reet C1 SELIBRET s o e Faria 124
LadYSlpper.. > «e 3 > aes ee e i e 75 Signs Of Pride 9 u o e e 76
Literary Press Group/Canñada. . ......... 104 University Of Nebraska... ... 110
LPC CIOU: o e ea di 28 University of North Carolina .... 0... 5... 2
Luna Pres5. sui rey asee 96 Westminster John Knox Press... ..... >... 116
Lesbian Adventures, continued from page 33. raging at the Collective. Can Jolyn get through to the
documents to her office, keep alive a new, now long- seemingly oblivious feminists without the help of
distance relationship, as well as illegally sublet her Rosa and Elena? Will Rosa's latest book, delayed at
rent-controlled apartment on the Upper West Side. the printer’s, arrive in time to educate, enlighten and
And when it all takes a metaphysical turn as Terry prevent a murder? Or will Jolyn finally take an ax to
experiences the ghosts of her parents while driving in the collective’s bathroom, making it truly accessible
their late-model mini-van in search of a six-pack of once and for all?
decent beer, we see that the suburban search for mean- Vengeful Spirit. When eternal-graduate student
ing is just beginning. and visiting house guest LouAnne takes it upon her-
Jolyn MacCray Takes on the Collective. It’s a rough self to point out all the differences between
ride for European-American sociology professor (over)activist Lucy and Lucy’s cable-TV-addicted girl-
and disabilities-rights activist Jolyn MacCray. With friend Lonnie, all hell breaks loose — until the three
her lover Elena off to Liberia on a Rhodes Scholar- of them discover there’s a ghost in the house. Or is the
ship and best friend Rosa on a whirlwind book tour, “ghost” a prank of the local religious right group, who
Jolyn learns she’s been denied tenure by a stodgy hope to derail Lucy’s latest plans for a local lesbian
group of male professors. Retreating to a small cable network? Can everyone work together, or is one
women’s college for the summer, Jolyn thinks of the three not whom she appears to be?
immersing herself in the lesbian community will Yup, looks like we have a fine summer of reading
ease her pain. But watch out, because these macro- lined up here. So pass the mineral water and sink into
biotic, newspaper-recycling lesbians prove that — well, if it’s not exactly reality — maybe a little
White privilege and ableism are alive and well and escapism isn’t so bad after all. o
Volume 19 Number 4 127 November /December 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
BOOKS $6, and with colorful gemstones $8. Wonderful gifts,
easy to display, no minimum order for CODs. Free
nIn iss tt a n at n d H u lem sbo ir a n S e hc uti mon o! r T bw ooe kn st y - at vw aio la b d leif f de ir re en ct t ly f e fm ri o- m s 3a 2m 37p l e S E w 1it 4h t h ,w h Po ol re ts la al ne d c a Ot Ral o g 9. 7 2 C 0e 2l ;e b 5r 0a 3t -e 2 3 W 9-o 7m 01a 5n .!,
5R 0o %z W toa r 7r 5e %n , t o in cb luo dok ins gto r te hs e a t L a mdi bs dco au -an wts a r dr a n wg ii nn ng i n f grom MUSIC
The Butches of Madison County. For more information,
e-mail (RozWarren@aol.com) or write Roz Warren, PO Ladyslipper Music — the oldest national distributor
Box 259, Bala Cynwyd PA 19004 or phone Roz week- specializing in recordings by women — invites you to
days before noon at 610-668-4252. join us in celebrating our 20th anniversary in 1996! All
genres, including feminist, lesbian/gay, women’s
HELP WANTED spirituality, international, alternative, folk, classical,
spoken, and children’s music, plus songbooks, videos
Circulation Director responsible for marketing, and more. For free annotated wholesale/retail catalog
promoting, and database management for magazine o 6f 04 4o ,v e fr a x 1 5 90 10 9 - C 38D 3 - 3an 52d 5 ,c a Pss Oe t t Be o x t i t 3l 1e 2s 4: , p h Do un rhe a m80 0 N-6 C34-
s sa ul pe es r va it s i nG gi r l af r cie irn cd us l a tm ioa ng a z ai sn se is. t aA nl ts .o T r we osp o yn es ai rb sl e e xf por eri- 27715, e-mail (ladyslip@nando.net181).
ence, familiarity with lesbian market and competence
with Macintosh computers required. For job descrip- RENT
tion/further information, send resume to Erin
Findlay, publisher, Girlfriends magazine, 3415 Cesar Simple Addition. Your Private Paradise on the Gulf
Chavez #101, San Francisco CA 94110; fax 415-648- of Mexico at Alligator Point, Florida. Luxurious
4708, e-mail (staff@gfriends.com). two bedroom two bath house available for weekly
or. monthly rental. Full kitchen, microwave,
SIDELINES washer and dryer, all linens and dishes provided,
pool table, screened in porch, large open deck and
outside shower. 150' boardwalk from house to
Positive Notecards For Women. Joyously illustrated
with florals, herbs, cats, moons, stars, celestials... Neat e ai tg h 8t 0 0 m -5i 3l 3e -s 1 9o 7f 3 . white sand beach. Call Barbara Grier
Stuff! Woman owned and operated. Experience the
notecards women across the country can’t stop talking
about! For color catalog and sample notecard contact: FBN Classified Ads — New Rates — $10 for first 50
Emmanuel Publishing, PO Box 212534-T, Columbia words, 15 cents per word after that. 25% discount
SC 29221; 803-798-8903. for 3+ insertions paid at one time. Payment must
accompany ad. No charge for “Help Wanted” list-
Celebrate Woman! Handcrafted porcelain jewelry ings up to 100 words. Send to FBN, PO Box 882554,
with fun, inspiring designs. Bestselling “Sisterhood” San Francisco, CA 94188.
pin available in six beautiful glaze colors, wholesale
November /December 1996 128
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsSpecial Announcement
from Jane Evershed
Jane’s new journal #3
Refuge From Insanity
Is now available
Printed on 100% recycled paper with soy inks
With a full color cover
{perforated pages allow for double use as stationery or journal entries} |
I am also now the sole distributor of
“More Than A Tea Party”
64 full color pages of art and poetry
Order 6 Journals and 6 books and receive one book free.
$6.00 ea / retail $12.00
Call Toll free 1 888 667 0599
We also have 102 different notecards,
Blank inside with poems on the back,
printed on chlorine and dioxin-free recycled paper with soy inks.
Also available:
Gift bags, posters, gift boxes, bookmarks,poetry plaques, Compact disc-Jagadamba,
conversation catalyst cards, bookmarks, Journal 1-Truth Visiting,
Journal 2- The great Leap,Teeny tiny gift cards.
To order the calender; “The Power of Woman”
call 1800 6253386
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsZ Throwaway Angels
A True Story with Lies A Novel
by Persimmon Blackbridge by Nancy Richler
Funny, tragic and sexy, this Tova's lacklustre life picks up its
lavishly illustrated novel is about pace when her friend Gina
trying to pass for normal. disappears. Wryly told by a
Cloth, Full-colour images throughout. lesbian narrator, this is a page-
ISBN 0-88974-068-2 turner with heart.
$21.95 US / $23.95 CDN NEIRA
Paper, ISBN 0-88974-062-3
$12.95 US / $14.95 CDN
N £E wW
Cereus Blooms at Night
A Novel
by Shani Mootoo
a Part magic realism, part
psychological drama, this
haunting novel explores a world
where love and treachery collide.
Paper, ISBN 0-88974-064-X
S H A NI MOOTO 0 $15.95 US / $18.95 CDN
ZI When Fox Is a Thousand
A Native Perspective on A Novel
Sociology and Feminism by Larissa Lai
by Lee Maracle
This spellbinding novel blends
Maracle's visionary book mythology and intrigue, as an
combines her skill as a First elusive Fox travels through time
Nations orator with her inhabiting the bodies of women.
personal vision of the future. Paper, ISBN 0-88974-041-0
Paper, ISBN 0-88974-059-3 $14.95 US / $16.95 CDN
$14.95 US / $16.95 CDN
La a aa a aa tu mi i taa i matei T E tin H i aat i a mia rai H T M a H H i an maa m m ea Hm an m H T Wai i EA i VA E Ha
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:48:11 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms