Feminist Bookstore News
Source: Reveal Digital, 01-01-1999
Contributed by: Margaret; Jacqueline Dumas; Teri Mae Rutledge; Carol Seajay; Anita
Alexander; Linda Boubon; Lisa C. Moore; Lisa McGowan; Sharon Collingwood; Nan Cinnater;
Barb Smalley; Laurie Fuchs; Matt Nicholson; Jessica Fields; Tee A. Corinne; Richard
Labonte; Laura Quilter; Mev Miller
Stable URL: https://www.jstor.org/stable/community.28036388
Licenses: Creative Commons: Attribution-NonCommercial
JSTOR is a not-for-profit service that helps scholars, researchers, and students discover, use, and build upon a wide
range of content in a trusted digital archive. We use information technology and tools to increase productivity and
facilitate new forms of scholarship. For more information about JSTOR, please contact support@jstor.org.
This item is openly available as part of an Open JSTOR Collection.
For terms of use, please refer to our Terms & Conditions at https://about.jstor.org/terms/#whats-in-jstor
Reveal Digital is collaborating with JSTOR to digitize, preserve and extend access to Reveal Digital
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist
Bookstore
News RivAlzhti
GET READY FOR _
Black History Month
w Women's History
Month
2nd ANNUAL
Volume 21 Number 5
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThis content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Itis truly amazing how much happens in the two found — and then wrote — the lead story for the issue,
short months between issues. I skipped out to Hawaii the profile of Shades of Sienna, an African American
for some R&R just as we went to press in October and children’s bookstore. Turn to page 23 for inspiration,
had a wonderful time. Snorkeling and sea turtles and promotional ideas, and insightful book suggestions.
dolphins and a bit of kayaking, working on a dyke- Teri Mae also dreamed up and recruited the profile of
owned banana farm, and three days of playing with Black lesbian-visioned RedBone Press. There’s lots for
Sisterhood Bookstore’s ex-manager — and FBN’s kids in this issue (see pages 26, 29, and 69), an update
ex-science fiction columnist, Julie Mitchell (who's of the African American Lesbian Books list, and, in
living there for six months) — were just a few of the News, reports on the Feminist Press’ Women Writing
highlights. My only regret was missing the tribute to Africa series and CUNY’s publishing certificate pro-
Lesbian Herstory Archives co-founder Joan Nestle on gram. We tried to trim down our annual Booksellers’
the occasion of the publication of her essay collection, Recommendations for BH/WH Months, but there is
A Fragile Union. From all I've heard, it was an extraor- just too much enthusiasm and energy for these books
dinary event, reflecting back to to do justice in a half a dozen
Joan, perhaps, how her love and pages, so we just let them rip! The
ability to cherish our collective past cheering begins on page 41.
has informed our present — and
the shape of our future. There’s such a difference
And since I’ve been back on the between this cheering enthusiasm
“mainland,” we've had earth- for books and the “My (ah, um...)
quakes (4.2 on the Richter, but database is bigger than your (ah,
who's counting?), an (unrelated) um...) database” competition and
day-long, city-wide power outage advertising going on between
(not such a big deal in hindsight, b&n.com and Amazon.com on TV,
but at the beginning it was tempt- online, and in major newspapers.
ing to give in to all kinds of Into the Not to be gross, but it has all the
Forest-type fantasies), the proposed maturity and sophistication of
sale of Ingram to independent prepubescent boys getting off on
bookstores’ arch rival, Barnes & Noble, and the mush- size competitions before they learn that size and satis-
rooming of B&N (and Amazon.com) banners on gay faction have nothing to do with each other. The
and feminist Web sites, the impeachment, and the “brilliant” minds running both of those establishments
bombing of Iraq. Whew! I gotta say that I'm impressed clearly haven't figured that out either, and they're
that we got an issue out at all — and such a wonderful advertising their egomania all over the place. And
issue at that! these are the people we're supposed to trust with
So welcome to our second annual Get-Ready-for- doing a mature and ethical job of running the nation’s
Black-History-and-Women’s-History-Months issue. largest book wholesaler? I don’t think so! Certainly not
Special thanks to FBN’s new Assistant Editor Teri Mae unless they grow up and get a grip on reality!
Rutledge who, in addition to jumping in and shep- And, for revenge, we're pleased to announce the
herding all of FBN’s many parts to press, went out and return of that bad-attitude character, Hothead
January/February 1999
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Paison. (“That’s FEH MUH NIST — Can you say it?”) McGowan, has resigned her position to fulfill her
Issue #21 — as Hothead says, “So what if it’s three longtime dream of going back to school. We will miss
years late!” — is rolling off the presses as we go to her clear-eyed vision and vast knowledge of the book
press, so drop everything and go find it. We need a industry's workings on a daily basis. Her work at FBN
little attitude to get us through these times. (See page has centered on helping independent bookstores fight
85 for details.) back against the superchain incursions, and we envy
anyone who manages to recruit her for their team in
Enormous thanks to Sojourner crew for the won- the future. Luckily for us, she’s keeping time in her
derful (and long") article about feminist bookstores in schedule to help FBN with various special projects
their December issue. They understand the impor- and so she'll be in and out of the office in the months
tance of feminist bookstores and the economic forces to come. All of us here wish her the very best as she
that are conspiring to do us in and believe in the pursues this dream.
possibility of organizing large numbers of people to Special thanks, too, to Kristin Redmon, who has
stand against those forces to preserve our community made the transition to a new office manager easy as
and its resources. well as fun (she can say FEH MUH NIST!) and to our
I wish that more of our “leadership” organizations Production Manager, Kathryn Werhane, who has
had as clear an understanding! In this issue FBN de- spent the last two issues struggling through new soft-
scribes and addresses the Barnes & Noble—sponsored ware, a lemon of a new computer (that never did
assault on feminist and gay bookstores taking place on work), and truly creepy software bugs, finally, pro-
many of our community's Web sites. (See page 55.) ducing this issue on the old computer with a creative
mix of old and new software.
It’s with a great deal of sadness — and joy — that Yours in spreading the words,
I announce that FBN’s Catalog Coordinator, Lisa Carol Seajay
Spring Summer &
Announcements Sidelines
March - April May - June July - August
Articles Jan. 4 Mar. 5 May 7
Ad Reservations Jan. 8 Mar. 12 May 14
Ad Mechanicals Jan. 15 Mar. 19 May 21
News Column Items Jan. 15 Mar. 19 May 21
Letters Jan. 20 Mar. 24 May 26
letters are the responsibility of the authors. FEMINIST BOOKSTORE
the informal network of feminist bookstores. FBN reaches 500 NEWS (ISSN: 0741-6555) is published bimonthly in January,
feminist and feminist-inclined bookstores in the U.S. and Canada as March, May, July, September, and November by FEMINIST
BOOKSTORE NEWS at 2180 Bryant Street #207, San Francisco
Zealand, India, Japan and Kenya. Librarians, Women’s Studies CA 94110. Periodicals Postage paid at San Francisco CA. POST-
teachers, book reviewers, publishers and feminist bibliophiles MASTER: Please send address changes to FEMINIST BOOKSTORE
comprise the remainder of the subscribers. Signed articles and NEWS, PO Box 882554, San Francisco CA 94188-2554.
January/February 1999 2 Volume 21 Number 5
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFBN CONTENTS
EDITOR & PUBLISHER Carol Seajay
ASSISTANT EDITOR Teri Mae Rutledge BLACK & WOMEN’S HISTORY MONTHS
ADVERT. & PRODUCTION Kathryn Werhane ShFades O of RSiennOa: AfIricÄan Aemerrican C hiGldren’ss B ook s e. . 23 29
CATALOG COORDINATOR Lisa McGowan Publisher Profile: RedBone Press. ............ S1
OFFICE MANAGER kristin Redmon Update: The African American Lesbian Section . . .... 37
COLUMNISTS Booksellers' Recommend BH & WH Titles . . . . . .... 41
Art Books: Tee Corinne
Canadian Books: Jacqueline Dumas ARTICLES
Gay Men's Literature: Richard Labonté The High Price of B&N Web Site Banners . ........ 55
Kids’ Lit: Linda Bubon BOOKSIOre NWS. 3... A NENA 17
Music: Susan Frazier & Barb Smalley Commentary 55 0. È N 59
SM cy i F &s it / e F Hr ai ene as t t: a h s eN y r:a n WL aC hui irn pa pn la Q et uer ilter N e.A cowB mA ' ’ss B / o Oa Sfr fd he n S soh ivr rei n t k L is n? k Ss© I • OA CB eoA r sp oN .r a am tee e .BC .oh oa k n sg ote o ? r e • a S A a lm e sAazon 7
University Presses: Mev Miller
Video: Liz Wermcrantz FTC to Investigate B&N/Ingram Deal • SF Vetos Borders •
PROOFREADERS Women Buy Ms. • £4.2M to Women’s Library • Carolyn
Sarah Fallon, Sarah Holmes, Kizer, Maxine Kumin Resign from AAP -1999 ZIBF •
Kirsten Janene-Nelson, Charlotte Mautner, Women Writing Africa • Publishing Certificate Program
Karen McKevitt, Stephanie Provines, Fights Racism • Sojourner Features Feminist Bookstores •
Kristin Redmon, Dena Taylor, Jenn Tust FB-Net Catalog “The Best Yet” • BEA 1999 • B&N to
Julie Van Pelt, Susan Waller Buy Ingram? • ABA's 1999 Forum Dates
COV TE hR e A '9R 9T L F u/ ni ag rh t C ab ley n dD ae rb r (a L u nO as t r Po rk eo sl so )wicz D A AEP dA nR T o M M uEN nT OS cS eK m a ei ne t so . , e e N o 1 6127
BaCk 10 Pess. . n i t 62
BeSISelleris. r e 67
HOW TO REACH US
CIASSifled AdS. UR e e e a 128
TELEPHONE 415-642-9993 LSHIN lk a s e r s a m en ae r 5
FAX 415-642-9995 Subscription Information... ............... 68
U.S. POSTAL SERVICE They Went That-A-Way . .................. 63
Feminist Bookstore News Writing Wanted.. N BRN e, 66
PO Box 882554 SRE 81
San Francisco CA 94188 THE BOOKS
DELIVERIES Art BOOKS SLR SUPU s e e MEA P 78
2180 Bryant Street #207 KISLIN Rl e aA 2 69
San Francisco CA 94110
MUSIS NEWS9. sanii et ale i A 75
E GM eA nIL eral Info: Kristin@FemBkNews.com M OUYS rIS e OS W N NE s P re e se s ee sf . . . T s . . .e ..a .t LR A Rs 7 2 se 85
Editor & Publisher: Carol@FemBkNews.com
Assistant Editor: TeriMae@FemBkNews.com Publisher'S-RoW =. . . . . : -s s E t a A 109
Advertising: Kathryn@FemBkNews.com SSieHnceO FNict i onR &a e Fsa nt a—sy .. ... ..e... ... ..a..., 8 335
Catalog: Lisa@FemBkNews.com Small Presses... 0 89
Printed in the USA University Presses 77- r. 99
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Women% Words
READING THE RIVER
Swimming in Trees Reading the River A Woman Determined
by Maria Stokes Katzenbach Writings by Claudia Mauro by Jean Swallow
Multi-layered and exhilarating, this The eagerly awaited second collection A character study in the context of
spiritual journey begins with a of stories and poems by the Lambda a close-knit community of urban
murder and celebrates--in language Book Award nominee. At once sexual lesbians, exploring the far-reaching
l hl rik i e afe a l e lla - ui t l cf o io ievr nsc i ae -n t- go otf rh yen ea n -t -u e sr cr pe r- g i- ert y ah i te t eu ic anr e l a a , t i a v ccle l oo mn w c pro le em t xee ,n a . n a n dT dhree o pa f on e md th s e w d m re io te s ttp e n l s y e bn ys u s a ap l i a wr n oi d mt u al nya r l i f, c oa l r i lt ao nv oe tc ho -ntains some ac ic no cin sde ts n ie t t q u ou tne i n oit nc s e s ms . e m Io nbf e r s 1 a 9an n 8d 6 a ,it u s t So wm alo lb oi wle
layered re-membering of self, as er woman ever published. Melding received an Outstanding Achievement
woman, writer, sister, and friend. the power and relevance of Dorothy Award from the National Gay &
A book to breathe in, discover, Allison and the spiritual sensibility of Lesbian Press Association. She
re-discover, and share. Kathleen Norris, Mauro is rapidly committed suicide in 1995 at the
DIVINA, $17.00, 0-9659521-3-4 becoming a favorite in women’s age of 42.
poetry across the U.S. and Canada. Spinsters Ink, $10.95, 1-883523-28-1
Whiteaker, $13.95, 0-9653800-3-3
ORDERS: 1-800-593-WORD FAX: 1-800-948-WORD
January/February 1999 Volume 21 Number 5
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
65 South Court Street human being. She spent quality time conversing with
Thunder Bay ON each customer and gained the respect of us all. After
P7B 2X2 Canada being with her for twenty minutes I felt I had known
Dear FBN, her all my life. Carol's visit was certainly the highlight
Catalogues just arrived (minutes ago) and they Of Our year.
are wonderful. We also had a great evening with Cori Brewster,
Here's payment — I kept waiting for our dollar a singer/songwriter from Edmonton who has been
to recover (which hasn't happened). With the traveling to support independent bookstores. She
exchange on the dollar, it is almost prohibitive to pur- was wonderful.
chase anything from the U.S. Best wishes,
The Northern Woman’s Bookstore has survived Margaret /Northern Woman’s Bookstore O
the six months since the arrival of Chapters — but
most other independents have not survived. The
children’s bookstore, a new age store, and Sweet Destruction Bay
Thursday, our only mainstream independent (and a by Lisa Chavez 72 pp. $8.95
good one) have all closed. What remains is a gay
b seo lo lk s s t bo or oe k s( ,w h twic oh Cis h r m isto is at nly b ov oid ke so ts o) r, e sa , c aa nf dé tt hh ea t N a ol rs to h- “Chavez’ poems are piercing and
ern Woman’s Bookstore. The months of May, June, sharp as a northern winter, and
and July were dreadful. But it’s hard to determine always they are only a word away
how much Chapters was a factor since Thunder Bay from devastation.”
also had strikes against two major employers, a -- Linda Hogan
generally poor economy, and the most marvelous
weather — so people were going to the beach instead No Parole Today
o nf o r msh ao l p p (win hg i. c h S i n isc e n 0A tu g tu os t , s a ym y t h esa yl e s a r ear e g r b ea ac tk ). Wto ith a lot by Laura Tohe 72 pp. $8.95
of luck I should balance my books for the year.
One neat “Chapters” story: About a month ago A Navajo poet describes attending
an American visitor came into the store looking for a government school for Indian
several particular titles. She told me that she had gone children and how it challenged her
to Chapters, looked around, and said, “Good grief, socially, culturally, and expressively.
this is a Canadian Barnes & Noble — there must be
something else.” So she left and searched us out. West End Press Box 27334
Also, we had two great events in September. The Albuquerque, NM 87125
first was a signing by Carol Shields, who is a delight- distributed by UNM Press
ful person — a genuine, unpretentious, pleasant
January/February 1999
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
NEW -som WOMEN’s PRESS
eVe oma z 01010
Fashioning the New Millennium
What does feminism have to do with fashion?
Why dowomen choose towearthe clothes,
accessories and make-up they wear? Inthe West,
where capitalism defines everything, the fashion
industry thrives on women consumers. Itis
assumed thatthe fashion industry dictates what
we wearfrom seasonto season— pinkisin this
fall and out nextfall. Butmany women move
beyond fashion dictates and expresstheir
individuality through styles of their own. Re-
sponses can vary from dismissals to gawks with
comments like “bizarre,” “interesting,” “exotic,”
“different,” “weird,” “crazy.” The 2000
Everywoman‘s Almanacrevealsthe thinking
behind the dressing from 12women determined to
asserttheir personal styles into the next millen-
nium.
° new design
NP PANT ° address sect ° i sotunnning cover
° convenient compact size
$8.95 US /$11.95 CAN Sewn
0-88961-233-1
Release: July 1999
Distributed in the US by the LPC Group (1-800-626-4330),
in Canada by University of Toronto Press (1-800-565-9523) É
Visit us atthe BEA atthe LPC Group exhibit.
January/February 1999 6 Volume 21 Number 5
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsthey were hit with series of letters from local commu-
FTC to Investigate B&N/Ingram nity members, other neighborhood businesses, and
and B&N/Bertelsmann Deals Bay Area booksellers. Working Assets joined the
struggle at its height, buying a $60,000, page-three ad
The Federal Trade Commission has announced in the San Francisco Bay Guardian headlined “Borders
that it will investigate both Barnes & Noble’s proposed on Union Street? Just Say No” that described the situ-
purchase of the Ingram Book Group (for $200 million ation (“Borders Books, the giant bookstore chain,
in cash plus $400 million in stock) and the chain book- wants to stick a huge store on Union Street.... This
store's agreement to sell half of its online division, will destroy the character of the neighborhood and
barnesandnoble.com, to Bertelsmann (for $200 million kill a lively independent bookstore....”) and encour-
in cash). Feminist and independent booksellers across aged readers to attend the Planning Commission
the country have written to both the FTC and the meeting or to write, phone, or fax the Planning Com-
Department of Justice requesting investigations into mission. Faced with so much pressure, community
the sale of Ingram, the country’s primary wholesale awareness, and local media coverage, the SF Planning
distributor, to their largest competitor. Commission reconsidered and refused to grant Bor-
If the findings of the preliminary investigation ders an exemption from the zoning laws.
warrant further investigation and the proposal for the
sale is not withdrawn, the FTC will move to a second
level of investigation. “That second hearing is the one Women’s Coalition Buys Ms.
you really want,” ABA’s Avin Domnitz told FBN. — Next Issue: April
These hearings may be scheduled for early spring.
“Joyful” is the word that best describes the energy
at the newly woman-owned Ms. Magazine offices,
Indies: 1, Borders: Zip where the ink is barely dry on both the bill of sale from
the MacDonald Communications Corporation and on
San Francisco's Union Street neighborhood, local the articles of incorporation for the recently formed
booksellers, the Northern California Independent buyers’ group, Liberty Media for Women.
Booksellers Association (NCIBA), and, eventually, “Ms. was founded in the years before women
Working Assets, all pitched in to tell San Francisco's had control of their money,” Ms. editor-in-chief Mar-
Planning Commission that neither Borders nor any cia Gillespie told FBN, outlining why it was possible
other mega-store has a place in this small shop-based to put together a coalition of women investors today,
neighborhood. but not in 1972 when New York magazine sponsored
Because of zoning restrictions already in place, the first issue and Warner Communications put up $1
Borders applied for a waiver to locate their proposed million to launch Ms.
20,000-square-foot store in the trendy neighborhood When MacDonald Communications decided to
— just down the street from a 2000-square-foot, “sell or close” Ms. last spring, Gillespie and Ms.
17-year-old, successful independent bookstore, Solar founder Gloria Steinem went into action and, by the
Light Books. The Planning Commission had already end of September, had put together a coalition of 17
given tentative approval to the Borders’ bid when women — Liberty Media for Women — to secure the
January/February 1999
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
$3 million to buy Ms. and relaunch it. In addition to bimonthly format, which offers readers at least as
Gillepsie and Steinem, the group includes Sandy much editorial content as most monthlies with ads. In
Lerner, a founder of computer network company 1996 Ms., Working Woman, and Working Mother were
Cisco Systems; Martha Crowninshield, the manag- sold to MacDonald Communications. But MacDon-
ing director of the venture capital firm Boston ald, which also runs the National Association of
Ventures; Alix L.L. Ritchie, the publisher of the Female Executives (NAFE), has been shifting its focus
Provincetown Banner; California activist Marta to “more synergistic” audiences (such as NAFE mem-
Drury; Abby Disney, a philanthropist and bers) who are also willing to pay memberships fees
grand-niece of Walt Disney; and a 17-year-old inves- and then shell out more money to attend expensive
tor from a three-generation family of feminist seminars. Ms., with its diverse readership and
activists and philanthropists. The sale was finalized broadly based editorial content, didn’t fit that model
on November 30. and MacDonald began to consider selling or closing
“This is the first time in a decade that Ms. has Ms. last spring.
been woman-owned, and the first time ever that its The new, woman-owned Ms. will be re-
winning ad-free formula has been combined with launched in April with new staff (including Ophira
such ownership,” Gillepsie said of the sale. Con- Edut, co-founder of Hues), a new look (“more accessi-
sulting editor Gloria Steinem, who preserved staff ble and reader friendly”) that will appeal to both
editorial control under the past three owners, said, older and younger feminists, a lighter tone (“while
“Ms. has always had editorial independence, but now keeping the depth and analysis”), and “many excit-
we also have financial independence, and that is cru- ing new elements and sections in addition to our
cial. What has made this exciting future possible is the fiction, investigative reporting, politics, poetry,
new network of women investors who put their humor and international coverage,” Gillespie told
money where their hearts are. Ms. first began to show FBN. “We're back!”
consistent profits in 1990 when it became ad-free and The next issue will drop at the end of March and
asked its readers to pay full cost, as they would for a will be called the April/May issue. Ms.’ new address
paperback book, but it lacked the investment neces- is 20 Exchange Place, 22nd Floor, NY NY 10005.
sary to introduce itself to a larger readership. Now at
last readers and investors share the same vision and
have the means to expand and build on the trust that Britain's National Women’s Library
Ms. has earned over a quarter-century.” Gets £4.2 Million Grant
Ms. was founded in 1972 as a women-controlled
monthly financed, in part, by advertising. Its launch There is to be a National Library of Women in
was greeted with tremendous excitement and the first London, thanks to a £4.2 million grant from Britain's
issue to hit the stands sold out in eight days. Women’s Heritage Lottery Fund. It will incorporate the
liberation was all the rage, and the magazine reso- Fawcett Library, which has its roots in the suffrage
nated, if not for women on the cutting edge of the movement and holds Britain’s oldest and most com-
women’s liberation movement, then certainly for the prehensive collection of women-centered material,
wave of women surging into the spaces opened up by including priceless collections of books, periodicals,
that cutting edge. Circulation soared to half a million, letters, papers, and artifacts. Items to be housed in
but too few advertisers with budgets large enough to the new national library include banners used by the
buy ads in the glossy national magazine were willing women’s suffrage movement and Emily Wilding
to advertise in a magazine committed to interests out- Davison’s return ticket to Epsom, which suggests
side the “food, fashion, and beauty” formula. In 1987 that the suffragette may not have intended to sacri-
Ms. was sold to Australian-based Fairfax Communi- fice her life at the Derby.
cations (owners of Sassy), and in 1989 it was sold to The new library will be built on Old Castle Street
Lang Communications, the publisher of Working in Aldgate (East London) and will record and cele-
Woman and Working Mother. At Ms.’ behest, Lang brate the contribution of women through the ages in
experimented with the current successful ad-free shaping the world we live in.
January/February 1999
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
100 people. Applications are currently being accepted.
Set-up for the Fair will be on August 2. The trade
and professional days will be August 3 to 5, and the
Fair will be open to the public on August 6 and 7.
Stands are US$750, and double units are US$1200,
Two oPulitzer Prize winning poets, Carolyn Kizer with a 15 percent discount if stands are paid for by
and Maxine Kumin, have resigned as chancellors of April 15.
the Academy of American Poets to protest the Acad- Three hundred exhibitors representing 500
emy’s extreme bias toward white men, the insularity publishers participated in last year’s Fair when the
among the (predominantly white male) chancellors, focus was on children. Visitors during the trade
the absence of Blacks and other minority groups, and days numbered 9240; 10,000 people attended during
the lack of women. the public days.
The Academy, which was founded in 1934, pro- Air fare from London to Zimbabwe costs around
motes poetry nationally. Its twelve-member board of £740. Fares from San Francisco run from $2500 to
chancellors administers the country’s largest literary $4000, or 75,000 frequent flier miles.
award, the $100,000 Tanning Prize, and the $20,000 For more information about the program, regis-
Academy Fellowship. Four of the five Tanning Prizes tration, or travel, contact David Brine, ZIBF (UK) Ltd.,
that have been awarded since its inception in 1994 have PO Box 21303, London UK WC2E 8PH; +44 (0) 171 836
gone to white male poets. (Adrienne Rich was awarded 8501, fax same, email (zibf.kingstreet@dial.pipex
the 1996 Tanning.) Of the 64 Fellowships the chancel- .com). To discuss programming, contact Margaret
lors have awarded, only two have gone to African Ling, Managing Director, ZIBF (UK) Ltd., email
American poets, and only 14 have gone to women. (margaret.ling@geo02.poptel.org.uk).
The Academy’s board of directors has 26 mem-
bers, only one of whom is Black (Jamaica Kincaid) and
only seven of whom are women. Prior to 1987 there Women Writing Africa
were no Blacks or Jews on the board at all.
Since the Academy was founded, there have The Feminist Press at the City University of New
been 57 chancellors. Twelve women have been York is sponsoring a new project: Women Writing
elected, but there has never been a Black chancellor of Africa. The ambitious project will collect both oral
either gender. The Academy had just failed to elect and written literary expression by women through-
Lucille Clifton at the time Kizer and Kumin resigned. out Africa, both contemporary and historical. The
Feminist Press will publish the works in a series of six
anthologies, each focusing on a different region, as
1999 Zimbabwe International Book Fair well as a series of books by and about individual Afri-
Focus on Women can women.
Scholars from the U.S. and throughout Africa
will collaborate in gathering, editing, and translating
the texts. The project will collect and publish the wid-
est possible definition of women’s literary expression
— including songs, praise poems, and significant oral
texts, as well as fiction, short stories, drama, letters,
The theme for the 1999 ZIBF will be women. The and journals. Over seventy women are currently
Fair will open with a three day conference, “Women’s involved in various aspects of the project.
Voices — Gender, Books, and Development” that will In addition to the publications that aim to make
run July 31 to August 1. The cost for the conference is African women’s writings available worldwide, the
US$120. A visitor pass for the Fair is an additional project will also promote the study of African women’s
US$85. Conference participation for people from writing. The project will create repositories in Africa for
Europe, the Caribbean, and North America is limited to the narratives collected, establish a computer network
January/February 1999
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
for experts in African women’s history and culture, and whom are people of color — with the skills they'd
promote egalitarian partnerships between African and need to be successful in publishing and send those
non-African writers and scholars. students to work on paid internships that get them
The first book in the series, Zulu Woman: The Life “in the door.” Mosley proposed the plan to City Col-
Story of Christina Sibiya will be published in February. lege President Yolanda Moses and put up $10,000 of
(See FBN Vol 21 #3) Other Feminist Press publica- his own money as a seed grant to launch the program.
tions that will be incorporated into the series include A wonderfully creative mix of classes and informal
Changes (1991) and No Sweetness Here and Other seminars on every possible topic (including a
Stories (1995), both by Ama Ata Aidoo, Across Bound- pre-internship seminar on dealing with the real world
aries: The Journey of a South African Woman Leader by of publishing) comprise the program. Upon comple-
Mamphela Ramphele (1997), and Teaching African tion of classwork, seven students were paired with
Literatures in a Global Literary Economy, a special issue in-house mentors and sent off to internships last sum-
of Women’s Studies Quarterly (1997) edited by mer. All seven completed their internship and
Tuzyline Jita Allan. graduated from the program. Two were offered posi-
The Women Writing Africa project would like to tions. Fifty students are currently participating in the
hear from anyone who is using primary sources (oral program at CUNY — including several who were
or written) by African women, readers who own or already working in entry-level positions and seeking
have access to archives of African women’s texts, and additional skills to enable them to advance their
readers who can translate from an African language careers in the publishing industry.
into English or French, from English into French, or For further information, to contribute financially
French into English. The project is funded by The to the program, or to offer internships, contact Pro-
Ford Foundation. To contribute to Women Writing gram Director David Unger or Associate Director
Africa or for more information, contact: Women Writ- Catherine McKinley at CUNY, 212-650-7925 and
ing Africa, Project Coordinator, The Feminist Press at -7927, respectively.
CUNY, Wingate Hall/City College, Convent Avenue
at 138 Street, NY NY 10031.
The Feminist Press is also launching, this spring, Sojourner Features
Women Changing the World, a series of YA biogra- Feminist Bookstores
phies of women who have won Nobel Peace Prizes.
The first books in the series will be: Aung San Suu Kyi: Just in time to catch holiday shoppers, the
Standing up for Democracy in Burma by Bettina Ling, Boston-based women’s news magazine, Sojourner,
Mairead Corrigan and Betty Williams: Making Peace in ran a three-page article on the history of feminist
Northern Ireland by Bettina Ling, and Rigoberta bookstores, the loss of 25 feminist bookstores to
Menchu: Defending Human Rights in Guatemala by super-chains, the vital importance of feminist book-
Michael Silverstone, all of which were announced for stores, and, of course, how feminist bookstores and
Fall 98 but postponed until Spring. the women who depend on them are fighting back.
Titled “If We Want Women’s Bookstores to Be
There, We Have to Support Them,” the article fea-
Breaking through the Race Barrier in tures an interview with FBN’s Carol Seajay. It
_ Publishing — Part Il includes an overview of the issues that threaten all
independent bookstores in the country at this time.
In last year’s Black History/Women’s History Many stores are making photocopies (with
Months issue, we wrote about the City College of Sojourner’s subscription information on them, of
New York’s Publishing Certificate Program — the course). It’s a long feature, but could easily be
brain-child of Walter Mosley and others concerned adapted for other publications. For a copy or for per-
about the nearly lily-white face of mainstream pub- mission to reprint, write to Sojourner at 42 Seaverns
lishing. The idea was to set up a publishing program Ave., Jamacia Plain MA 02130; 617-524-0415, email
that would equip CUNY students — 80 percent of (info@sojourner.org).
January/February 1999 10
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Titles range from the extremely polemical to gen-
eral interest titles such as Working with Emotional
Intelligence by Daniel Goleman; participating publish-
ers range from the smallest of the feminist presses to
The 1998/1999 Feminist Bookstore Network the world’s largest corporate publishers. This year,
(Holiday) Catalog is “absolutely the best yet” for the first time, general independent booksellers in
(Women and Children First), “fabulous” (Wild Iris communities where there is no feminist specialty
Books), and “Great — love the in-your-face cover” store were invited to distribute the Catalog.
(Brigit Books).
Feminist booksellers across the U.S. and in Can-
ada have reported “even higher than expected” sales Feminist Bookstore Meetings; o
from this year’s Feminist Bookstore Network (Holi- ABA, BEA, and the LA Book Festival |
day) Catalog. “Maybe it’s the bold cover, or maybe it’s
that a critical mass of local stores have been lost and Book Expo America (BEA) an the Anericah
people are freaked to the point of actually supporting Booksellers Association meetings, after far too many
their stores,” Common Language commented. The years stuck in one location, will be held in Los Angeles
catalog sports a trendy new cover, an excellent collec- from April 30 to May 2. Historically, BEA/ABA has
tion of books, an introduction by Dorothy Allison, and been a traveling show, visiting different parts of the
a directory of feminist bookstores (with Web site, country each year, attracting booksellers in each
email, and conventional addresses as well as phone region, along with those willing and financially able to
and fax numbers for all Feminist Bookstore Network travel to the trade show every year. After an extremely
member stores.) Shots of the FB-Net Catalog were definitive show of hands at the ABA annual meeting
aired on CSPAN in November 15. two years ago, BEA got the message and moved the
Pool-Hopping and Other Stories Inward to the Bones
Anne Fleming GKeoragita eO' Ke eBffer’s a soiudme y w. it h a ER Carr
The diverse characters
in Pool-Hopping — “This powerful volume
many of them lesbian succeeds on several
and gay — come from levels. The voices of both
different generations
and backgrounds, but O tr'K ue ee . f f . e . a Tn hd e C na urr an cr ei sn g of
all sense disorder
speech and life will
rippling beneath the resonate for readers
surface of existence. familiar with the lives
P wool- iHo tpp tin yg ,co n ta ein ds gy and v e and work of both
engaging stories by a y $13.9 5Fi c ti Uon S A• I SB /N $1- 18 696 .0 99 55- 1 8 C-6 A ° N pb —wo m Qe un il. l ” & Quire Poe t $r 1y 4 .9 © 5 UIS SB AN / $ 11 6- .8 99 56 0 C95 A- N40 - p2 b •
superb new writer.
Distributed to the trade in Canada by General Distribution
Services. Polestar, P.O. Box 5238, Station B, Victoria, BC, LPC Group/InBook. To order call 1-800-243-0138 or
Canada, V8R 6N4 email: polestar@direct.ca 1-800-626-4330. Fax orders to 1-800-334-3892.
January/February 1999
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
show to Los Angeles for 1999. The very early dates and ABA always holds its annual membership meet-
the shift to Friday through Sunday, rather than the ing in conjunction with BEA. Hot topics will
customary Saturday through Monday, seem to be the undoubtedly be updates on the ABA’s lawsuit
cost of the last- minute move. Hopefully, despite the against Borders and Barnes & Noble, increased dis-
early dates, this will be such a strongly attended show cussion on members’ requests that ABA develop a
that BEA will give up its commitment to parking the mega-database comparable to B&N’s or Ama-
convention in Chicago for the next two years and really zon.com's online databases, investigation into the
put the show back on the road. extreme terms that Amazon.com is demanding from
The annual Feminist Bookstore Network Confer- small publishers (55% discount on 5+ copies of any
ence will be held on the Wednesday and Thursday small press title, freight-free, payable when sold), and
preceding BEA, April 28 and 29. FBN will once again discussion about combating the loss of in-store sales
book a block of hotel rooms for feminist booksellers, to the huge online book retailers. Also, ABA's pro-
publishers, and friends. For more information, call posed switch from a 20+ member Board of Directors
the FBN office at 415-642-9993. to a nine-person Board is up for membership discus-
In keeping with the earlier dates, the Lambda sion and vote. (See “Commentary and Trivia.”)
Literary Awards will be held on Thursday, April 29. The best part of the convention could be celebrat-
Given the near-Hollywood location, there are high ing in the aisles should the FTC decide to make the
hopes that the awards will be presented theater style right decision and reject B&N’s bid to purchase
— at the Paramont studios— with a reception before Ingram — but don’t hold your breath. It usually takes
and a party afterwards, rather than the traditional, at least two hearings for the FTC to come up with
sit-down banquet dinner. Call the Lambda Book those kinds of decisions and, as we go to press, the
Report at 202-462-7924 or check the Web site first hearing isn’t even scheduled.
(www.lambdalit.org) for details. The Fourth Annual Los Angeles Times Festival
VOICE OVER REFRAMINGS = NEW
TWhe I LMLakIAingM o f B BAlacRk L ROadWio llF ekm Mi n Pi s Lt k P Nheowt oAgmreraipcahn i e; s PER
Voice Over celebrates and EDITED BY DIANE NEUMAIER
documents the history of black “Providing visibility to feminist photogra-
radio. Beginning with the early phers and theorists, and emphasizing the
days—when few blacks had interrelation of the two, Reframings expands
receivers, none had on-air jobs, the parameters of feminist discourse, while
and the white public accepted at the same time collecting a canon to
the black-face buffoonery of The Amos and Andy Show and which scholars might refer in the future.”
Beulah as a fair depiction of African American life—Barlow —afterimage
leads his exploration into the contemporary days of corpo-
rate buyouts and uncertain fate. Includes profiles of broad-
casters Cathy Hughes, Peggy Mitchell, Mary Mason, and
Martha Jean “the Queen” Steinberg,and many more.
304 pp.illustrated $22.95
Temple University Press
12
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
of Books will be held the weekend before BEA, April decision to create a separate company for its
24 and 25, at UCLA's Dickson Plaza. A hundred thou- recently founded online division protects the
sand people attended the event last year; 350 authors “bricks and mortar” parent company from the
participated in 83 author events. A 10’ x 10’ booth financial losses associated with the development of
rents for $700. Applications are due (with payment) major online sales companies, while still giving
by January 22, but earlier is better. For exhibitor infor- stockholders access to potential profits from actual
mation call 213-237-7321. To discuss author book sales — should there ever be actual profits
programming, call Cara DiMassa at 800-LATIMES, from mega-online bookstores — and, more signifi-
ext. 7BOOK or write to Festival of Books, Exhibit cantly, access to profits from the skyrocketing prices
Applications, LA Times, 2nd Floor, Times Mirror of Internet stock.)
Square, Los Angeles CA 90053. Bertelsmann, right up to the time it announced
its purchase of half of b&n.com, had been giving
every indication of signing a deal with the American
The Lite ary Congress Booksellers Association that would have created a
January 16-19 in Phoenix viable online marketing program for independent
booksellers and helped to restore competition to the
The other book industry show, The Literary book business. But B&N apparently had more to offer
Congress, meets January 16-19 in Phoenix, Arizona, than independent bookstores...including the inter-
in association with ForeWord Magazine and PROSE locking purchase of Ingram. Also, Bertelsmann and
(the spring Promotional, Remainder, Overstock B&N are already partners in one of the new e-books
Exposition). Highlights will include a panel with Pat start-up companies, Rocketbooks. (B&N has also
Holt (Holt Uncensored) and other industry movers and recently signed a multimillion dollar deal with
shakers discussing the battles in the industry and the Microsoft to become the exclusive English-language
shape of the future, a “What Works and Why” work- bookseller on MSN.com and its global network of
shop, and the “Start-Up Academy” for new and “portal” Web sites.)
perspective booksellers. Multi-track programs focus- B&N has its own reasons for wanting to own
ing on advertising, selling books, and promotion and Ingram, not the least of which is that it can turn the
publicity will compliment twenty-seven workshops, book wholesaler into a fulfillment service for
networking and discussion dinners, and, of course, b&n.com orders. An estimated 80 percent of the
publishers’ book exhibits. book-buying public is only an overnight delivery
For updated information contact The Literary away (at ground rates) from Ingram’s eleven ware-
Congress, 2667 Hyacinth St., Westbury NY 11590; houses. Amazon.com currently buys 59 percent of its
516-338-6312, ' fax "516-333-0689; email books from Ingram, and it presumably pays Ingram
(Readingent@aol.com). to drop-ship a high proportion of those books. Thus,
through its ownership of Ingram, B&N would get the
wholesaler’s cut on all the books Amazon.com
B&N-Owned Ingram?!! orders from Ingram. In addition, B&N’s success at
wooing Bertelsmann away from the ABA’s proposed
B&N’s announcement that it intends to buy online venture reduces the potential, at least for the
Ingram, the nation’s primary book wholesaler, moment, for additional online sales competition.
rocked the bookselling industry this fall, setting off And given that Ingram is the primary wholesaler of
shock-waves of concern in a multitude of directions. books to independent bookstores in this country, it
The deal, under which B&N would pay the would give B&N (through Ingram) a percentage of
Ingram family and other stockholders $200 million sales from independents. All in all, it’s a a very nifty
in cash and $400 million in stock, is presumably deal for B&N.
financed by B&N’s sale of 50 percent of its spin-off But even more importantly, the proposed sale
company, barnesandnoble.com, to Bertelsmann for means that virtually every independent bookseller in
(coincidentally) $200 million in cash. (B&N’s the country would be forced to depend on a company,
13 January/February 1999
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
that is owned by a major competitor, to get the books Given that B&N expects Ingram to provide fulfill-
it sells. In addition to being the primary or secondary ment services for b&n.com orders, and given the
wholesaler for an estimated 75—80 percent of inde- growth projected over the next five years, it is unlikely
pendent bookstores, Ingram holds exclusive that wholesale book sales to independents will remain
distribution contracts with a number of publishers. Ingram’s primary focus. At best, independents will
And it means that, with every purchase, inde- experience declining service and fulfillment.
pendents will be contributing to the coffers of a Further, Ingram has refused to assure independ-
competitor that already has a reputation for treating ent bookstores that confidential information about
independents and other competitors poorly. B&N is their credit histories — and their sales — will not be
being sued by the ABA and 20 independents on those given to B&N during the pre-sale period.
very charges: unfair competition under fair trade ABA and independent booksellers nationwide
practices laws and violations of antitrust laws. have mounted a major campaign to demand that both
Few independent booksellers have any confi- sales be rejected under antitrust laws. Customers —
dence that they will be treated fairly by Ingram, and senators — have joined the effort, signing peti-
should the sale go through. It would be far too easy for tions, sending letters, and demanding a full FTC
Ingram to implement programs or de facto policies investigation. The ABA has provided excellent leader-
that would give fulfillment priority to B&N stores and ship, sending information packets to every member
b&n.com customers, and/or to reserve quantities of bookseller (including sample letters, ABA’s statement
bestselling books and books with short press runs on the proposed sale, sample petitions for customers,
(such as unexpectedly strong sellers at Christmas and a straightforward outline of why this sale creates
time) for the wholesaler’s “largest customers.” problems for the American reading public).
Further, the sale could give B&N access to inde- And, so far, that campaign has been successful.
pendents’ sales records and to their credit histories. The FTC has agreed to hear the case and there is grow-
The former could easily clue B&N in on upcoming ing hope, as public pressure mounts, that the FTC will
independent bookstore bestsellers (and, indeed, take the case seriously.
Ingram could compile that information ahead of the
industry-published bestseller lists). Even a guick
glance at which independents have outstanding credit Round Three: Booksellers
balances with Ingram could be used to tell B&N which _File Lawsuit to Protect Free Speech
independents are most vulnerable at any particular on the Internet
time and thus impact B&N’s decisions regarding
where to expand, where to increase advertising, etc. A Different Light Bookstores, Powell’s Books,
Even minor shifts in credit policies could have the American Booksellers Foundation for Free
tremendous impact on independents’ access to stock. Expression, and 14 other companies and civil liberties
Given that B&N is competing with independents in groups have filed a lawsuit in federal court in Phila-
almost every market in the country, even the smallest delphia to challenge the Child Online Protection
changes in the way credit policies are applied to spe- (COP) Act.
cific independents’ accounts at specific times could The Act was approved by Congress as part of the
have tremendous impact on those independents’ sur- budget bill in October, along with myriad other bills
vival — and on B&N’s domination in certain markets. that were slipped into the budget bill for easy, unde-
The merging of wholesale and retail functions, partic- bated passage. COP makes it a crime for commercial
ularly if given B&N’s already tremendous buying Web sites to distribute material to a minor that is
power, could create situations where it would be very “harmful.” Critics of the bill point out that because any
difficult for publishers and other suppliers to refuse material posted on the Web can be accessed by minors,
to give the industry giant preferable terms. Also, the online bookstores could be prosecuted for merely dis-
two-tier system of buying for both wholesale and playing book excerpts or covers which could be judged
retail resale would almost inevitably be used to give harmful to minors. Those convicted would face up to
B&N a competitive advantage. six months in jail and a $50,000 fine.
January/February 1999 14
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
This is the second time in three years that
Congress has passed a sweeping law that would, if
allowed to stand, limit the Internet to material that is
suitable for children and the second time that book-
sellers have filed suit to protest. In 1996, Congress By Jacqueline Dumas
passed the Communications Decency Act which Sheryl died peacefully at 10:45 a.m. on Tuesday
made it a crime to transmit “indecent” materials via October 20, 1998, after being removed from life sup-
the Internet. The Supreme Court ruled unanimously port. She was in a coma at the Grey Nuns Community
that the CDA was unconstitutional. Hospital after suffering from a heart attack at the
Edmonton International Airport on October 15, 1998.
She is survived by her same-sex spouse Maureen
Cal-West Closes Irwin and Maureen’s children and grandchildren, her
mother, her five children and four grandchildren,
Cal-West Periodicals, once one of the nation’s ten her siblings, and two nephews.
largest magazine suppliers, has gone out of business. I first met Sheryl four-and-a-half years ago when I
Industry observers speculate that Cal-West’s closure was getting ready to open Orlando Books. At the time
was directly related to lower profit margins in maga- she was involved with Womon to Womon Books and
zine distribution for the last three years. The number had heard about my plans to open a feminist book-
of U.S. magazine distributors, according to PW Daily, store. So she phoned and made an appointment to see
has fallen in the last few years form 300 to 60, with 70 me. It didn’t take long to realize that she had come to
percent of the business controlled by five companies, suss me out, to see what my intentions were, to make
a situation that some bookstore owners consider a sure that I was indeed intending to support the femi-
monopoly-controlled business. nist and lesbian community. Over the next couple of
months she kept an eye on me and must have been
reassured, because once Womon to Womon Books
ABA's 1999 Forums was closed, she became one of my best and most loyal
customers, even though a trip to my store meant a long
ABA is running another series of forums this year, bus ride for her. But this was Sheryl — a committed
bringing key staff, policy setters, and Board members feminist who lived by her beliefs.
to meet with booksellers across the U.S. These meet- T'll really miss her presence, the long conversa-
ings give virtually every bookseller in the country a tions we had about books, the exchange of ideas, and
chance to tell ABA what their problems are, what they the exchange of gossip — especially about goings-on
want ABA to do, and what they want ABA’s priorities in the book trade. She was generous with her
to be. And the wonderfully amazing thing is that ABA thoughts and loved to discuss them. I'll miss her qui-
listens and prioritizes accordingly. These forums also etly breezing in through the door, zeroing in on the
give booksellers a chance to get updates on ABA's var- two books in the queer theory section she hadn't read
ious projects and get a much clearer picture of what's yet, saying, “Oh good, I've been waiting for these.” I'll
going on at ABA and in the industry than you'll see in miss her unique store of knowledge.
print anywhere. ABA Executive Director Avin She was on top of the books in her field like no
Domnitz attended almost every (or maybe every) one I've ever known. Sheryl would come in and ask
forum last year and expects to attend just as many this about books that were still in the manuscript stage —
year. ABA's president and other officers and Board she knew about them before the publishers did. I’ve
members also attend. I'd urge every bookseller in the spent 35 years in the book business, and I think Sheryl
country (ABA member or not) to invest a few hours in was the only customer I've ever had that I was not
these meetings, to say what you need, and find out once able to surprise with a new title.
what's on the horizon. For details of the meeting near- Over time, Sheryl became much more than a val-
est you, call ABA at 800-637-0037 or email Keva ued customer, she became a valued friend, a unique
Mosher (keva@bookweb.org). individual who I came to care for very much. O
15
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
By Teri Mae Rutledge The Author's Guild has developed backin-
print.com, a service to authors that makes their
WNBA (Women’s National Book Association) out-of-print books available for sale. To participate,
awards booksellers the Lucile Micheels Panell Award an author must be a member of the Author’s Guild
for the stimulation, promotion, and encouragement and have copies of an out-of-print edition to sell.
of reading in children and young adults. The Pannell Writers will be charged $35 for the first title and $15
Award will bring a bookstore recognition throughout for each additional title. Prices of the books are to be
the book industry and the local community, a framed determined by the author. Shakespeare & Co. in
original piece of artwork by a contemporary chil- NYC will handle fulfillment. The store will ware-
dren’s book illustrator, and a $750 prize. Any U.S. or house up to ten copies of each book and maintain an
Canadian bookstore that demonstrates an ongoing 800 number. The proceeds are spilt between the
commitment through programs in and/or out of the writer (55%), Shakespeare & Co. (35%), and the
bookstore that promote reading and involve children Guild (10%).
of any age is eligible. To enter, bookstores should
send a 1000-word statement describing the store’s
programs for children. Entries can also include pro-
motional materials, photographs, letters from
customers, media coverage, and video clips. Lucile In 1993 the Guadalajara International Book Fair,
Micheels Pannell managed the Hobby Horse Book- the Guadalajara School of Writers, and the French
shop in Chicago from 1943 to 1953. Send submissions publisher Indigo/Coté-Femmes inaugurated the Sor
to Andrea Brown, WNBA, PO Box 1137, Montara CA Juana Inés de la Cruz Prize to recognize the pub-
94037; 650-728-1783. Deadline: January 22. lished work of women writers. The award was
b named after Sor Juana, the first woman writer of
UIR Spanish America. Her poetry, theater, and journals
constitute an important contribution to international
literary arts. The prize brings attention to the work of
OutWrite 99, the eighth annual Queer Writers’ a woman writer in the Spanish language; all women
Conference is February 26—28 at the Boston Park who have written a novel during the past three years
Plaza Hotel. Keynote speakers include filmmaker are eligible. The prize includes publication and dis-
Pratibha Parmar, poet and author Mark Doty, editor, tribution of the winning entry in Mexico by Fondo de
publisher, and scholar Barbara Smith, and playwright Cultura Económica Press and publication in the U.S.
Paul Bonin-Rodriguez. For more information on the by Curbstone Press. The next winner will be
conference (exhibiting, advertising, attending), con- announced at the GIBL in December 1999. Guide-
tact Karen Bullock-Jordan, OutWrite Conference lines are available in January. Contact the
Director, BSEF, 29 Stanhope St., Boston MA 02116; Guadalajara School of Writers, Av. Circ. Augustín
617-262-6969, email (outwrite@bsef.terranet.com). Yáñez #2839, Guadalajara, 44110, JAL, Mexico. O
January/February 1999 16
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsBy Carol Seajay features a sketch of the store and Bechdel-esque books
(Our Bon Bons, Ourselves, Women Who Run with the
The new owners of Lammas (Washington DC), Truffles) and the back has appropriate advisories (No
Denise Bump and Sylvia Colon, and staff and friends Feminists were harmed while making this chocolate;
celebrated Lammas’ 25th anniversary by hosting a Serving size: as many as you can eat) and store ingre-
three day conference, “Strong Women Keep Coming, dients (books, gifts, silly staffers, elephant, purple
Three Generations of Women Speaking and Acting bathroom, book groups, Darwin & gefilte fish,
for Our Lives” and a banquet honoring the work of rolodexes, fun customers and the occasional dog).
long-time Lammas owner, Mary Farmer. The guest Perfect stocking stuffers, perfect traveling advertising.
list for the banquet and the conference program read
like a who's who of, well, the last three generations of My Sisters’ Words (Syracuse), after throwing a
feminist activists. Special promotions included a 25 series of tenth anniversary events last year, decided to
percent discount on gift items on Anniversary forego all the work of planning an event this year and
Saturday for everyone wearing (or buying) Lammas’ encouraged customers and the community to cele-
25th anniversary t-shirts, a 20 percent discount on brate the store's birthday by taking a quiet hour on
adult toys and leather goods on Anniversary Friday anniversary weekend (“Put it on your calendar right
(no, it wasn't advertised as Dildo Day), as well as $2
discount on purchases for everyone who came in on Market Research Results
Halloween in any kind of drag or costume. New
events at Lammas continue to draw new (and famil- In-store market research at My Sisters Words
bia or o) k sf ta oc re es : fC ira sr td ,i o - aB s o x fi an rg a s(o n I kth ne o w r ,o o bf u tg a wrd he yn ) n i os t ? a In the ( eS y 9r 3a %cu s oe f) r ce uv se ta ol ms et rh s a t a: re female, 7% are male
8 ci0 ss e . i t L a mwa ms a st w ie sl v ae l- ss ot e p th em e met ei en tg ins, g n po lw ac e i t f’s o r g r “o Wup al k e inxe gr- ° 1 3 3% 0- 3 9ar , e 1 6ag %e s a r1 e0 - 1 49 0; - 4 91 ,6 % 2 0 a %r e a r2 e0 — 52 09 -, 5 9 ,2 6 % 6% a r ae re
the District with Pride” (for customers who want a bit 60 or older
of history with their exercise). Movie Night is on Customers say they support the store for the
Tuesday (big screen with surround sound). Lammas f ° o l Sl eo lw ecin tig o n r e —as o n 4s 3: %
is the place to make a shirt for the Clothesline Project e Service — 23%
during Domestic Violence Awareness Month (Octo-
ber). Humor and performance with the Therapy e For community information — 20%
Sisters change the mood back. Reading circles, drum- e Because it’s an independent business — 13%
ming circles, spirituality discussions and Family Day F ° r e 5q 8u %e n c hy a: d been in the store at least once
round out the rest of the programming. Something for
everyone — in a diverse and complex community — during the previous month
seems to be Lammas’ theme. ° 13% had been in within the previous six
months
Antigone Books (Tucson) celebrated their 25th ° 16% had been in within the previous year
anniversary with — among other things — commem- e 15% were visiting that week for the first time
orative chocolate bars. The front of the wrapper in a few years
17 January/February 1999
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
now!” )1 to themselves to read.... It seemed like a good did a wonderful job,” said Random House/Canada
idea right up ‘til anniversary day when there was no to local chainstores’ morning-after call to find out
party and not a lot of people in the store — everyone why they didn’t get the event.
stayed home to read! (How rare it is that feminists do TWB also reports a whopping success with text
as they're told!) “I won’t ever nof have a party again!” books this year: “We had our highest September in
Mary Ellen Kavanuagh told FBN. My Sisters’ Words years (around $120,000) and sold more course books
also held its first annual Sleepover Contest. All of the than ever before. The academic community is so
bookgroups who used Mary Ellen’s services as a con- wonderfully supportive of us,” Anjula Gogia wrote
sultant (with no charge except for the groups’ to FBN.
commitments to buy their books at the store) were eli-
gible. The members of the winning group got to The Women’s Bookstop (Hamilton, Ontario), in
spend an evening at the store and read as long and as conjunction with a local art gallery, facilitated a
late as they wanted. women’s art shop for Wife Assault Prevention
Month. Fifty women sent artwork. Promo for the
Congratulations to New Words and Gilda opening publicized the bookstore and the art gallery.
Bruckman. The store received two well-deserved
awards this year: the Lesbian and Gay Political Alli- In Edmonton, Orlando Books brought their com-
ance of Massachusetts Award for Service to Women munity into their new space with Orlando-A-Go-Go:
and the Greater Boston Business Council's Small Busi- The First Annual Beat the Big Box Celebration! The
ness Recognition Award from the gay community. party ran from nine a.m. to midnight and featured
Gilda was recognized with the Cambridge Peace videos all day (Paris Was A Woman, Who's Counting?,
Commission's Peace and Justice Award, which is Marilyn Waring on Sex, Lies & Global Economics, Stolen
given every year to people working in the community. Moments, The Celluloid Closet, and The Life and Times of
C A X Ay S H o yu oa rr u v 'l e ls y t o h r eM e l pi l ok n u). s t T fhh ii nse i s oi hn n v e p it ada yt a ii y no gn a n or d ue a r d b , u m y“ oiB vny ig n g c j uo em st x i pn eog nn se ei n s bt oo ao nk d,
ensure our survival through the winter. You'll also be
Big successful events? Amazon (Minneapolis) keeping your book dollars in the community. So come
sold 100 copies of Family Outing when Chastity Bono in, buy a book, and pick up your copy of this year’s
was at the store: those local girls like those Feminist Bookstores Catalogue. Thanks to all our cus-
out-of-town celebrities. Chastity outsold even Kate tomers for your continued loyalty and support!” The
Clinton. In Chicago 400 people turned out for Barbara move, Jackie Dumas reports, went wonderfully well.
Kingsolver’s reading at Women and Children First, “We managed to do it all in a day with a truck and a
surpassing even the records set by the Gloria Steinem group of 25 volunteers. It was uplifting, with all of
and Susan Faludi readings. these wonderful women cleaning and sawing and
hammering and drilling all around.”
In Canada, the Event of the Season was Alice
Walker's reading, sponsored by the Toronto Sharon Collingwood of Womansline Books told
Women’s Bookstore. The 1200-seat hall sold out well this story during an e-list discussion about the frus-
in advance, and 100 people bought stand- trations of working with academic women who don’t
ing-room-only tickets. An additional 200 people understand that feminist bookselling is a community
attended the post-reading benefit for TWB and the service rather than a wealth-generating activity:
Congress of Black Women. Dionne Brand did an “During Breast Cancer Month I did a book table for
incredibly moving introduction in which she paid the Canadian Auto Workers local in Ingersoll, a small
tribute to TWB and all of the women’s bookstores. town outside of London. Instead of trying to get me to
CBC-TV did a video segment on the store and the pay a fee (so often we get asked to pay a share of the
Indies vs. Chains situation as a tie-in. Booksales at the profits, which usually means that we break even for
event exceeded $6000. “The best possible bookstore the day — or less), I was helped in with the books, fed
January/February 1999 18
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
tea and carrot cake, and thanked profusely for Horizon Theatre, and the Charis Circle. Tickets sold
coming. I was told that all the CAW women loved the out the first week.
bookstore and wanted to support us in any way they Charis’ response to Ingram’s sale to B&N? They
could, so they're giving us free advertising in the blew up the statement from ABA’s information
Local's newsletter and, to top it all off, I was given a packet to poster size, put a heading on it reading
bouquet of flowers when I left! OK, I didn’t make a lot “This Bookstore Is Endangered,” posted it on the
of money, but that was one of the best tables I've done outside of the store, and invited people to come in
this year! The CAW Women’s Caucus is by far the and sign the petition. “It feels good to be giving
most supportive of the organizations we're involved people solid information with blatant examples,”
with. They’re a great bunch of women, straight talk- Sarga Leookt wrtotei tno FBgN. “ Pe oplie treal.ly” se em to© be
ers, and they are totally in the real world. Maybe
academic feminism isn't where we should be looking
for support?”
Commentary, continued from page 61.
It’s winter, it’s cold, and food is the issue: A know that all of Borders’ growth isn’t coming from
Room of One's Own’s café is now serving homemade independents’ market share.
hot soup. BookeWoman celebrated “not your ordi- B&N’s sales for the same quarter are up 10%. It
nary Thanksgiving” with Turning the Tables Il: A opened 17 new superstores and comparable store
Feminist Literary Feast, “benefiting Books Woman, sales are up 4.5% at its superstores. But despite rising
serving up food for thought 360 days a year.” The sales, operating losses of $20.5 million at its newly
event featured readings and recipes — and food — opened online division (Which is being spun off into a
from women of local and national literary acclaim. separate corporation) left the superchain in the red.
Tickets were $28. Books Woman, being in the heart of Amazon.com, where sales and losses are both
Texas, always celebrates Virgin Day on the Feast of up, has expanded its operations to Germany
Our Lady of Guadalupe. This year’s event (noon ‘til (www.amazon.de) and the U.K (www.amazon
rapture!) featured an altar-making workshop, the .co.uk) to sell German, British, and U.S. publications.
premiere performance of Feminist Bookstore Catalog After successfully adding music to its mix, the online
Web site maven Amanda Johnston's Dyke Dharma giant is now going into video and DVD distribution
(her film about the roles of spiritualty in the lives of as well as “personal electronics, games, gadgets, and
lesbians), a lively discussion with the Amanda, sacred toys for all ages.” All of which, combined with Ama-
and sumptuous food, and the Virgin Toss. (The only zon.com’s recent raids on Wal-Mart's computer
way to get details was to be there yourself!) program design staff, increases speculation that
BookeWoman is now hosting Sunday brunches. Amazon.com will shift to a mid-range pricing policy
“Come to talk, eat, drink, and enjoy yourself among on the new items and eventually abandon its less
your sisters, your community, and your books.” profitable (and highly discounted) original product
— books — altogether. But it won’t be soon enough to
NAs F help stores that are already in financial crisis due to
< NA loss of sales to the online giant.
Canadian superstore Indigo (the latest big threat
Charis (Atlanta) sponsored its third annual to Canadian Indies) has found a new way to bring
“Cooking With Honey” dinner inspired, of course, by people into the bookstore: get a license to serve beer
the Firebrand book of the same title. “We made a fab- and wine. Now that adds to the late evening/week-
ulous dinner from recipes by lesbians, then had end singles club atmosphere. Does it sell books? If it
readings by/about lesbians and food. It was great makes money, what does it matter? Besides, booze
fun!” Linda Bryant wrote to FBN. Charis and a group has a higher mark-up than books and you don’t have
of local women also brought Eve Ensler to Atlanta for to stock 160,000 different kinds. Maybe they'll dis-
a series of four shows from The Vagina Monologues. cover that books are just wallpaper and, à la
The series benefited Men Stopping Violence, the Amazon.com, decide to discontinue them... oO
19 January/February 1999
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsСеіеЬгаїе ВІаск мотеп
еуегу топіћ мії Боокѕ Бу
апа аБоиї Віаск мотеп
ИТИ ВЕ е Иллй. Шт. гні Мн ў Обол ул
Јапиагу / РеЬгиагу 1999 Уоһите 21 МитЬег 5
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Fon Sister Vision Preus
BOLD, RADICAL,
PR,OVOCATIiVE!
Boldly erotic, radically political, some-
times outrageous—MA-KA serves up
a feast to fine-tune the senses.
Over 40 sisters and brothers have con-
tributed to this down-home, up-town,
mid-town, mind -rattling anthology.
Here queer folks chant their truths,
dreams and fantasies far and wide.
MÁ-Ka presents a canvas of prose,
. sai
poetry, memoirs and essays that paint
p e e some of the many faces of African
Courtnay McFarlane
K N E ESE E diasporic experience and lay claim to
the fact that there is no single 'gay'
identity.
1-896705-14-6, 6x9, 232 pages
$17.95 US /$19.95 Cdn
WHO READS BOOKS? Anyone who is reading this.
Check out the cutting edge, fun, absorbing books by SISTER
VISION PREss, the only publisher of its kind on the continent!
Distributed in the US and Canada by UTP (800) 565-9253
Volume 21 Number 5 21 January/February 1999
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsЕетіпіѕі ВооКѕіоге Меууѕ
191 са Е 4
Рил.Акз ов Г.АсЕ ЧУомем лѕ Г.оувкѕ
Тће АпіћоІору оў Пайап-Сапайіап Иотеп Тўуо рІауѕ Бу ТҺегеѕа СагіШі
Еаіке4 Бу Магіѕа Ое Етапсеѕсһі
Ұ/нвке І Соме Еком
ЅтлАсЕ$: ЗЕгЕсСТЕр Ровмѕ Роеїгу Ьу Магіа Ма22іокі СШап
ЅЕх ТнвкаРу: А Рілу
Тїмо БооКѕ Бу Магу МеІб А Вкірсе ов Г.влувѕ
А поусе! Бу Оіапа СауаПо
Млоре
А ВвлАсн їч Млімв Этак оғ ЕкЕє УЛ.
Тімо поуеаѕ Ьу Ѕигаппе ЈасоЬ Роекгу Бу Магіа Ілиіѕа $раліапі
ІтлілАм Уомем лмо Отнек ТкАСЕОІЕ$ То Уомем гм л Віктн
ОГлоснтевѕ ғов ЅАгЕ Роекгу Бу Оарһпе Магіак апа Веѓкѕу Уаг1апа
Тўуо роеїгу БооКѕ Бу Сіаппа Раігіагса з
І.оокіимс тнкоцсн му Мотнев 5 Еувѕ
ЅСтлАтчЕр СтА$$ Ап еѕѕау Бу С1оуаппа ОсІМерго
А поуе П`а Бру СТонпсвек а У Рогіппссіереѕ . УМЕ Савку
©тлу тн Ме, ІГ.вмА Ке се п/і ПаЙап/Атепісап Иотеп’х Есіоп
А поусІ Ьу Магіѕа І.аЬоека Едісеа Ьу Магу Јо Вопа
І.Авок $Ѕомсѕ ТнЕ Уомалм І Ам
Јоѕт Мѕт ов Мом Роекгу Бу Оогоһу Ілусѕау
Тўуо роекгу БооКѕ Бу Оіапе Каргоѕһ Тнв Крск ов лент
Ому Ркоѕтітотеѕ МаАвку іч Мл ЅуеІе сіе 4у Роепаѕ Бу НєёІёпе Оогіоп
РІауѕ Ьу Оасіа Магаіпі Ріст ҰУЭтк
ІмгАІА А рІау Ьу Мігіаті РасКег
А поуе! Бу Саго! Оауій ВъвАкІКС ТИЕ МогЬ
Ноу то Ѕімс то А Олс Ао те то іг у Бу Р епупу Реігопе
Росшгу Бу Васе ниіао Оеунез Огдегв: ЕРС Сгоир, 1436 М Капо! $ь,, Сһісаро, П.
60607 О.$.А. — Те1.1.800.626.4330
СТЭН ЗИ [еу
Јапиагу / Рергиагу 1999 22 УоІите 21 МитЬег 5
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
PROFILE:
By Teri Mae Rutledge Anita finds that young adult books are one of the
strongest-selling genres in the store. “That’s a difficult
Anita Alexander, the owner of Shades of Sienna: age. Parents are competing with electronics and com-
African-American Children’s Books (Oakland CA), puters, but they still want their kids to be reading... I
has mountains of good ideas, the passion and drive to sell a lot of those books to frustrated parents,” she said.
bring them to fruition, and the good business sense to Anita also sells a few sidelines (dolls, stamps,
make them work — wonderfully. She has great cards, and games) which she stocks more heavily at
energy, and she’s obviously embracing her new role Christmas and Easter than at other times of the year.
in life as a bookseller. Every spring, she makes up Easter baskets with books
I visited Shades of Sienna on a gorgeous sunny instead of candy, and those move well.
late November day. The store is across the street from Anita estimates that 50-60 percent of Shades of
Oakland's Lake Merritt, a lovely location with a fair Sienna’s books are by women, and that 80 percent of
amount of foot traffic from nearby apart-
ment residents. Anita admitted that she
absolutely loves the big sunny picture
window and staring at the lake. Prior to
opening Shades of Sienna three years ago,
Anita was a lab technician in a windowless
lab at a local hospital.
Shades of Sienna is housed in a long,
thin space, with books lining each wall.
The store is spacious (1500 square feet) —
kids can sprawl out on the floor, play,
read, and do artwork. Though the store's
stock is mostly children’s books, Anita has
recently added some adult titles (she
offers a 15 percent discount on all adult
books) and has begun an adult bookclub.
(They're currently reading The Healing by
Gayl Jones.) The store has one floor of
retail space, with an additional conference
room upstairs where she hosts her Career
Days programs. Anita's other in-store
events feature both children’s and adult
book authors.
23
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
the books are about girls. “I actually have a hard get good books for their kids, they were surprised
time finding picture books for boys,” Anita said, again — this time that the books weren’t universally
“and they’re the one group that really needs them.” available.
(See sidebar for Anita’s favorite picture books for “People need to know that African American
boys and girls.) kids’ books exist,” Anita said firmly. This conviction
Book Fairs motivated her to take her books to the community.
“Book fairs were the most expeditious way for
Anita didn’t know that she had bookselling in me to get my books into the community,” Anita said.
her blood until she had children and began looking She rented a conference room at the Days Inn, sent out
for books appropriate for them. It seemed natural and promotional mailings, bought advertising in local
obvious to her that her children should read books papers, and was written up in the Oakland Tribune.
that would reflect their experience, books specifically Distributors didn’t provide catalogs or a lists of Afri-
geared to African American children. But those books can American children’s books, so Anita did
simply weren't available through traditional chan- extensive research before ordering. A friend who
nels. So Anita began hunting. She found that great worked in the book industry took up the challenge of
books for African American children definitely did special-ordering the books.
exist — and in large numbers — but there simply Sales were brisk. Anita had launched the first fair
wasn't a single place to get them all. So Anita began at Christmas time, and the community response was
collecting. Soon her co-workers at the hospital were so good that she set up subsequent fairs for Black His-
asking her where she got the books she carried tory Month and Easter, and also ran a Summer
around. All too often, they were surprised that such Reading fair. As the book fairs got more frequent and
books existed. When she suggested that they needed sales rose, Anita decided to find a permanent home
to shop in Black bookstores and do some searching to for her collection.
* COMPLETELY REVISED
& UPDATED EDITION
s OVER 450,000 IN PRINT
° BOMC SELECTION
11 x 11 inches © Hardcover
172 pages 975 duotone photographs
Special commemorative binding
$40.00 US *» $65.00 CAN
ISBN: 1-55670-888-2
~
A 10T ANNIV
44 r
STEWART, TABORI & CHANG
January/February 1999 24
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
In 1996 Shades of Sienna opened its doors. Anita from school librarians and teachers who balked at buy-
did some publicity mailings and got media attention ing their stock from a bookstore. They argued that they
from the Contra Costa Times. Last year was her best could order books more cheaply from Baker & Taylor or
year yet, after seeing lots of up-and-down retail traffic Ingram. Also, perhaps because of Anita's newness in
in 1996 and 1997. She’s slowly expanding her cus- her field (heck, let’s face it — she’s establishing a field)
tomer base, and, once people discover the store, they might not have recognized her valuable expert
they’re incredibly loyal. Anita hopes that as the store advice for what it was. With both schools, Anita had
becomes better-known in the community, it will get trouble collecting payment — the bureaucracy was not
more media coverage. set up to buy library books from a bookstore. Emerson’s
principal interceded on Anita’s behalf, speeding up the
The Literacy Connection lengthy collection process.
One of the reasons for increased sales in 1998 was Another teacher/customer hatched a plan to
Anita's work in public school libraries. “With the introduce families to Shades of Sienna — she sent her
whole literacy kick right now, something finally students’ parents to the store to buy almanacs and
clicked with the principals — that kids would be more atlases required for her class. However, again, there
interested in reading if they could relate to the books.” has been some resistance — this time from parents.
The principal of Emerson Elementary School in Out of a class of 30, only seven sets of books have been
Oakland decided to take an informal inventory of sold. And at least one parent complained vociferously
the school library. She went in, took a good look, and (about the extra cost, about having to find the store,
began tossing books. By the time she was through, etc.) the entire time he was in the store. This resistance
she had gotten rid of about half of the library’s collec- underscored the importance of educating parents
tion. Many of the books were old, and few were about their role in their children’s literary lives.
multicultural. Though the student body is 80 percent But in the end, working with public schools is
African American, only 5-10 percent of the books well worth the effort. Anita has filled a dire need in
were about African American kids. The principal, a two schools and has become active in the greater com-
Shades of Sienna customer, called Anita for help in munity in ways that she never could from behind the
rebuilding the collection. doors of the store.
With some imput from teachers, Anita created a list And what an incredible affirmation: to have
of books for each age group. She included Asian and public institutions recognizing your expertise and
Latina /Latino titles as well as books for African Ameri- asking for help.
can kids. She gave the school a 15 percent discount, and Books on Sunday
ultimately ordered 400 books for the library. (The school
spent over $6000.) “It was a kick going in afterwards Anita has always thought about the role of
and seeing all the books there,” she said. Shades of Sienna in the larger community. Perhaps
Cox Elementary School in Oakland soon fol- it’s in the store's nomadic book-fair history, but Anita
lowed suit and asked Anita to rebuild their collection. often takes Shades of Sienna on the road to places
Anita was pleased to repeat the process. Now such where kids gather.
partnerships are a part of her future plans for the One place that Shades of Sienna goes is to church.
store. “I figure there’s a lot of schools in Oakland,” she Anita packs up her car on Sunday morning and hits the
deadpanned. parking lot just as church lets out. The kids are a cap-
The principal at Cox also takes an active role in tive audience, and her Sunday sojourns are a brilliant
involving staff and parents in kids’ education. Some- way of bringing literature to people committed to fam-
times, as a reward to staff for attending the extra ily and children’s education. There has been some
programming, he hands out $100 gift certificates, bureaucratic resistance in churches, too — Anita has
redeemable at Shades of Sienna, that teachers and librari- tried to get Shades of Sienna listed in church bulletins,
ans can use to stock their classrooms or the library. but the churches seem to think that, as a business, she’s
These symbiotic relationships have not been with- somehow taking advantage of them. She also men-
out glitches, though. Anita has encountered resistance tioned that more and more churches are putting
25 January/February 1999
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
By Anita Alexander Pinkney, illustrated by Brian Pinkney, $16 cl,
I've put together two groups of ten each for boys 0-689-81071-7, Simon & Schuster.
and girls, although I could have easily made it a hun- 6. Clean Your Room, Harvey Moon! by Pat
dred of each of my favorites! Cummings, $5.99 pb, 0-689-71798-9, Simon &
It is essential that children see themselves and Schuster.
their culture reflected in the world in which they live. 7. Fireflies for Nathan by Shulamith Levey
Children’s literature is the perfect arena to address Oppenheim, illustrated by John Ward, $4.99 pb,
this because kids are naturally excited about books. 0-14-055782-2, Puffin.
Learning to read is one of the biggest accomplish- 8. The Snowy Day by Ezra Jack Keats, $6.99 pb,
ments in a child’s life, and when it happens he or she 0-670-86733-0, Viking.
wants to read everything from books to cereal boxes. 9. Max Found Two Sticks by J. Brian Pinkney,
Ask any parent about the mixed blessing of having to illustrated by Brian Pinkney, $5.99 pb,
hear your little one read every street sign they see on a 0-689-81593-X, Simon & Schuster.
trek across town! So, imagine how it must feel to open 10. Your Dad Was Just Like You by Dolores
book after book and never see anyone who bears any Johnson, $13.95 cl, 0-02-747838-6, Macmillan.
resemblance to you. The message is implanted that
you don’t exist or maybe somehow you just aren’t African American Picture Books for Girls (Ages 0-8)
good enough to be included. 1. Baby’s Colors by Naomi McMillan, illustrated
Which is why I find it so interesting that the over- by Keaf Holliday, 0307128733. This title is
all number of picture books available featuring currently out of print.
African American girls as the main character out- 2. Jamaica's Find by Juanita Havill, $11.95 cl,
numbers the books featuring African American boys 0-6060-2973-7, Demco Media.
two to one. Is this discrepancy systematic? Has the 3. Amazing Grace by Mary Hoffman, illustrated
historical exclusion of the Black male worked so well by Caroline Binch, $15.99 cl, 0-803-71040-2, Dial
that his absence is taken for granted even in the arena Books for Young Readers.
of children’s literature? 4. Cornrows by Camille Yarbrough, illustrated
by Carole Byard, $5.99 pb, 0-698114-36-1,
African American Picture Books for Boys (Ages 0-8) Paper Star.
1. Grandfather and I by Helen E. Buckley, 5. Cendrillon: A Creole Cinderella by Daniel San
illustrated by Jan Ormerod, $16 cl, Souci, illustrated by J. Brian Pinkney, $14.40 cl,
0-688-12533-6, Lothrop Lee & Shepard. 0-689-80668-X, Simon & Schuster.
2. Jamals Busy Day by Wade Hudson, illustrated 6. May'naise Sandwiches and Sunshine Tea by
by George Ford and Valerie W. Wesley, $12.95 Sandra Belton, illustrated by Gail G. Carter,
cl, 0-940975-21-1, Just Us Books. $14.95 cl, 0-027090-35-3, Four Winds.
3. My Best Friend by P. Mignon Hinds, 7. Nappy Hair by Carolivia Herron, illustrated
illustrated by Cornelius Van Wright, by Joe Cepeda, $6.99 pb, 0-679-89445-4,
0-30-716167-6, Golden Books. The publisher Random House.
reports being out of stock on this item; some more 8. You're My Nikki by Phyllis Rose Eisenberg,
aggressive searching may turn up some copies. illustrated by Jill Kastner, $12 cl, 0-6060-8410-X,
4. Getting Dressed (A Jump at the Sun Board Demco Media.
Book) by Dessie Moore, illustrated by Chevelle 9. Julius by Angela Johnson, illustrated by Dave
Moore, 0694005908. This title is listed as “out of Pilkey, $6.95 pb, 0-531071-02-2, Orchard.
print.” Again, some extra digging will be necessary 10. Raising Dragons by Jerdine Nolen, illustrated
to get your hands on this. by Elise Primavera, edited by Paula Wiseman,
5. The Adventures of Sparrowboy by J. Brian $16 cl, 0-152012-88-5, Silver Whistle. O
January/February 1999 26
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
guards in their parking lots. (Which she says isn't nec- that she had an idea for a book and asked Daphne
essarily a problem, it just usually involves a little how she might go about publishing it.
sweet-talking....) Anita also has been known to take Daphne gave her the name and telephone number
books to schools in the morning before classes start. of her agent, who happened to be the extremely success-
Books and Coffins f Fu ebl r uM aa rr yi e 1 B 99r 7o w an n. d A sn ei nt ta ip tu t o ft fo g te oth e Mr a ra i e .p r Mop ao rs iea l hi en ld it for
Shades of Sienna is hard to miss. Hard, that is, if several months so she could pitch it to Dis-
Anita has given you directions: “You'll see the coffin ney/Hyperion for their Jump at the Sun series. In late
outlet, and we're right next door.” And the coffin out- November, Hyperion accepted the proposal, telling
let is impossible to miss — big sign, corner storefront, Anita that they planned to release the book in February.
coffins displayed in every window. Anita couldn't By industry standards, this is 10 kind of schedule
believe her landlord when he told her what was com- for book production, let alone book creation. And, for
ing to the space next door. However, the outlet did get booksellers, working on extra projects in Novem-
a lot of publicity — apparently it’s the first discount ber /December is ludicrous.
casket business in existence. Sadly, all the newspaper When faced with these realities, Hyperion
photos seemed to crop out Shades of Sienna, but the agreed to a March release date (making the project
outlet gets a lot of business, and, ironically, some of slightly less impossible). Beginning in December,
that business has traveled next door. Parents bring Anita and her co-author, Susan Payne, faxed pages
children to Shades of Sienna “to cheer them up” after nightly to their editors, who would respond via fax by
their visit to the casket outlet. Anita has responded by the next morning. It was an intense two-month pro-
stocking a line of books on death and dying, as well as cess. But in the end, Gingersnaps was written, printed,
a line of sympathy cards. and in Anita's hands by late February. And it is a gor-
Her regular customers — the kids — generally geous book. Hyperion’s design — particularly the
think that the casket outlet is pretty cool. The only page layout — is simple and lovely.
folks who are sometimes uncomfortable with it are Disney is treating its Jump at the Sun authors
their parents. well. Anita and Susan attended the Disney kick-off
More Success p thar et yy s i an w N mew us i cY o fr rk o m C i t ty h’s e A Lim ons t e Kr id na gm p T erh fe oat re mr, e d w ah ne dre
Shades of Sienna has also birthed a book. Anita Anita got her first taste of book schmoozing on a
co-wrote, along with Susan Payne, Gingersnaps: Daily big-city scale. Gingersnaps has gotten lots of media
Affirmations for African American Children and Families attention, including reviews in Woman's Day and
($8.95 pb 0-7868-1306-7), which is a part of Dis- Essence Magazine. And, to top it all off, Hyperion has
ney/Hyperion’s much-touted Jump at the Sun series, asked Susan and Anita to write another book: this
a line of children’s books that celebrates the African time a book of affirmations for teenage girls.
American experience.
Anita's mother raised her children with affirma- Anita Alexander is a bookseller to keep an eye
tions. They were stories that, Anita says, instilled in on. I know that if I call her in three or four months,
her a lot of ambition and a lot of confidence. She had she'll be pursuing another completely original mar-
always wanted to see those affirmations in print so keting idea. Her freshness and enthusiasm are
that other families could benefit from them, too. inspiring, and I hope that Bay Area elementary school
In 1996, Anita invited Daphne Muse (editor of libraries are wise enough to let her revamp their col-
the young adult book, Prejudice: Stories about Hate, lections, that New York is smart enough to keep
Ignorance, Revelation, and Transformation, and of the publishing her writing, and that the Oakland commu-
new resource, The New Press Guide to Mulicultural nity will continue to come to Lake Merritt in droves to
Resources for Young Readers — see page 35 for more see and appreciate the tremendous resource it has in
information) to read at the store and, as sometimes her and Shades of Sienna.
happens, no one attended the reading. So Anita and 94 Sh6ad1es 0 of; Si en5na,1 5082 - G8ran9d 3Av-e.,2 O7akl6and7 C.A O
Daphne started talking. Eventually, Anita mentioned
27 January/February 1999
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
New Fiction
from Knopf, Pantheon and Vintage
The World and Other Places
Stories, 1986-1999
Jeanette Winterson
Knopf, $ 22 cl; 0-375-40240-3
Jeanette Winterson'’s reputation and accomplishment have grown with each
of her novels. Now, with her first collection — 17 stories that span her entire
career — she reveals all the facets of her extraordinary imagination. For her
readers, a celebration — and for everyone else, a wonderful introduction to
this highly original and consistently exciting writer. Available in Vintage
paperback: Written on the Body, Art & Lies, Art Objects, Gut Symmetries.
Trumpet
Jackie Kay
Pantheon, $23 cl; 0-375-40509-7
Winner of the Guardian 1998 Fiction Prize, Trumpet is a mesmerizing first
i novel about the boundaries of identity and the essential nature of love. “A
love story, a fairy tale, and a psychological thriller spun out of one deep
secret. Kay has a great gift for delving inside sundry souls, making poetry
of their quirks. Her prose ripples like jazz and brims with exquisite
insights.” —Andrea Ashworth, Once in a House on Fire.
Godďd’s Snake
Irini Spanidou
Vintage International, $13 pb, 0-375-70286-5
“Stark, vivid, heroic, and haunting...God’s Snake is a miracle.” —San
Francisco Chronicle. Set amid the arid landscape and stony resentments
of Greece in the aftermath of its bloody civil war, this electrifying novel is
the story of the inventive, courageous Anna, a young girl
who has inherited both the skepticism of classical
Athens and the fierce stoicism of Sparta.
n t al
Fear OR
Irini Spanidou
Knopf, $21 cl; 0-394-58055-9
Irini Spandidou's profoundly felt and enthralling new novel is set in
Greece in the 1950s, and the spartan military world that has shaped
Anna. As Anna turns 13, she is stunned by her own mysterious
responses to the adolescent boys and girls around her, by rumors of a
serial killer in the neighborhood, by the increasing tensions between
J S herself and her adored and difficult father. We see her moving, fearfully
È yet with intelligence and nerve, into womanhood.
January/February 1999 28 Volume 21 Number 5
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
By Linda Boubon
Women and Children First/Chicago
Women’s History Month Nonfiction
Ages 10 and up
° Ten Queens: Portraits of Women in Power by
Milton Meltzer and Bethanne Anderson. $24.95
c], 0-525-45643-0, Viking.
° Cool Women: The Thinking Girl’s Guide to the
Hippest Women in History edited by Pam
Nelson. $19.95 pb, 0-965975-40-1, Girl Press.
° Girls Who Rocked the World: Heroines from
Sacajawea to Sheryl Swoopes by Amelie
Welden, illustrated by Jerry McCann. $8.95 pb,
1-885223-68-4, Beyond Words.
° What Every American Should Know about
Women’s History by Christine Lunardini. $10.95
pb, 1-558506-87-X, Bob Adams Publishers. ° A Raisin in the Sun by Lorraine Hansberry.
° Scholastic Encyclopedia of Women in the $5.50 pb, 0-679-75533-0, Random House.
United States by Sheila Keenan. $17.95 cl, ° A Shining Thread of Hope by Darlene Clark
0-590-22792-0, Scholastic. Hine and Kathleen Thompson. $14 pb,
Also, Chelsea House has a huge line of biographies 0-7679-0111-8, Broadway Books.
including The American Women of Achievement A reminder: The Women’s National Book Association
series, many of which are in paperback. For a catalog, (212-675-7805 or http:/ /bookbuzz.com/ wnba .html)
contact Chelsea House, 1974 Sproul Road Ste. 204, has a wonderful brochure entitled “Eighty Books for
Broomall PA 19008; 610-353-5166. 21st Century Girls,” which they compiled for their
80th anniversary. They invite us to photocopy this
Black History Month Nonfiction list. It’s the best books, with great annotations.
Ages 12 and up
° But Some of Us Are Brave edited by Gloria Hull, Historical Fiction, Ages 8-12
et al. $15.95 pb, 0-912670-95-9, The Feminist I've written about quite a few books in the Dear
Press. Distributed by Consortium. America series from Scholastic. Ten titles are avail-
° Having Our Say by Sarah and Bessie Delaney. able, and two more will be out in Spring 99.
$6.99 pb, 0-440-22042-4, Bantam. American Diaries is a series by Kathleen Duvey.
° In My Place by Charlayne Hunter Gault. $12 pb, $3.99 each pb, Simon & Schuster.
0-679-74818-0, Random House. See Older Girls, page 84.
29
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
New Nonfiction
a
from Knopf, Pantheon and Vintage
E
When Memory Speaks
Exploring the Art of Autobiography SRA
Jill Ker Conway
Vintage, $13 pb, 224 pp; 0-679-76645-6
The memoir has been celebrated as our liveliest literary genre and
aid, de the la: condemned as the confessional mode of a self-obsessed society. In
this astute book about the memoir form itself, Jill Ker Conway
discusses notable examples of the genre: from St. Teresa of Avila and
WORD SONV: Jea n JAacquesY Rous seau to| Frank McCourt and Katharine Graham.
" stories...are worth savoring.”
In Her Own Words EON
Women’s Memoirs from Australia, New Zealand, Canada, and the United States
edited and with an introduction by Jill Ker Conway LEGACIES
A Vintage Original, $18 pb, 784 pp; 0-679-78153-6 AND
WIn e st th i Is n dd iaa nzz -l rin aig se dc o l wle oc mti ao nn , w w he o m bee ce at m ee le tv hen e fr ie rm sta r Bk la ab cl ke w U.o Sm . e Cn o n — gr ef ssr wom om aS nh ,i r l te oy JC ah ni es th o Flm ra, m t eh ,e BLACK
the brilliant New Zealand writer who overcame involuntary treatment in a mental institution to FEMINIS
write one of the archetypal analyses of the post-colonial experience. These are women who
have made a difference — with their honesty, their struggle for self-knowledge and autonomy,
and by the power of their writing. G‘HI FARP T RRUADINEE Y:, fi
The Pig Farmer’s
MAKY FRANCES BERR Y * | : Dzaug hte r aAnd Otnher gela Y. Davis
PIGPA T RHE MFR'S Tales of American
Ee Racism and Vintage, $15 pb, 464 pp; 0-679-77126-3
OTHER TALES = pisodes Gf nacism an “Extraordinary...Davis has given voice to a complex feminist
OF _| Sexism in the Courts from
1865 to the Present
Mary Frances Berry
ENS O FPD DE S T O E AFT SH K E1A 0 CC HOTAUH RA AS . H HG R R S EE EU NE YS K 0n -o 6p 7f, 9 -$ 424 3 6cl 1, 1 3 -2 10 pp;
From the head of the U.S. Civil
Rights Commission, a
groundbreaking book that examines both civil and — Toni Morrison
criminal court cases, from the Civil War to the present, to
reveal the impact of stereotyping on the American legal
system. Using American case law, Berry shows how The Amateur
attitudes toward gender, race, class, and sexuality have
influenced, and continue to influence, judicial An Independent Life of Letters
decision-making. A book that fascinates as much for its Wendy Lesser
human drama as for its political implications. Pantheon, $24 cl, 288 pp; 0-375-40402-3
In this wonderfully engaging intellectual
autobiography, Wendy Lesser, founder of
The Three Penny Review, explores both how we discover our passions in life and how our
passions discover us. She discusses the time (the sixties) and the place (Berkeley,
California) in which she came of age, the events that shaped her own life, and those she
witnessed on stage, canvas, screen, and paper that have influenced her considerable
powers of perception and thought.
January/February 1999 30
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Y RedBone Press
mam?
degree in journalism in 1995. It was my second bache-
lor’s; I'd gotten one in accounting in 1987.) When the
six months were up, I'd only received two submis-
sions, so I renewed the ads and then sent the call to all
the women’s bookstores in the U.S. — addresses cour-
Antho A lon gy tesy of the Feminist Bookstore Catalog, which lists
of Black teshis them in the back. Those bookstores put the call up on
Coming OU! Sto rYies bulletin boards or passed it on to writers they knew; I
know because I always asked respondents how they
heard about the book. I even got a few email
responses; one of the contributors had posted the call
By Lisa C. Moore on an electronic bulletin board.
My new deadline was one year from the second
When I started RedBone Press, I didn’t think call, so by the end of a year and a half, I'd gotten quite
that’s what I was doing. I actually just wanted to get a few stories, poems, and essays. During that time, I
these stories — the stories in does your mama know? An also went through my collection of Common Lives, Les-
Anthology of Black Lesbian Coming Out Stories — out! I'd bian Lives and Sinister Wisdom and tried to contact
put out a call for submissions in 1995 after looking for writers of certain stories so I could reprint them. I also
a book like does your mama know? and not finding it. I obtained permission to reprint Becky Birtha’s and
came out in the early 1980s, and I hadn't really read Jewelle Gomez's stories. I received 62 pieces and
much coming out literature since then. At that time I chose 49 for publication. Then I began the editing
read books like The Original Coming Out Stories edited process.
by Julia Penelope Stanley and Susan J. Wolfe, which is Once I actually had all the stories, the project
still on my bookshelf. Come to think of it, there are took on a life of its own. I had already begun research-
quite a few Persephone Press books — and Diana ing how to publish, but I wasn’t sure if I wanted to do
Press, Crossing Press, Naiad Press — still on my shelf, it myself or submit the book to another publisher. One
and I thank the universe for that. character fact/flaw: I’m a control freak (the euphe-
Anyway, I put out a call for submissions, sending mism is detail-oriented”). That helped me decide to
it out as a classified ad to nationally distributed publi- self-publish, since I wanted to control how the book
cations such as Sojourner, Washington Blade, Lesbian would look, who'd design the cover, how many cop-
Connection, BLK Magazine, Common Lives, Lesbian ies would get printed, and how it would get marketed
Lives, and Sinister Wisdom. I gave a deadline of six and sold.
months from the time of the call. Of course, I should I hired an artist, Kamela Eaton, who lives in Sac-
have known that writers are notorious for missing ramento, to do the cover. She came recommended by
deadlines — I mean, I did it regularly at my editorial my editor at HealthQuest Magazine. I knew the cover
assistant job for HealthQuest Magazine and at the had to be striking enough to grab the reader from
Atlanta Journal-Constitution, where I was a clerk and, across the room — or so all the literature says — and
later, a copy editor. (That was after graduating with a once I saw Kamela’s work, I knew she could do it.
31 January/February 1999
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Kamela and I swapped Fed Exes regularly, she draw- Philadelphia, Detroit, Minneapolis, Austin, Oakland,
ing possible cover and spine ideas, me approving a and Washington, D.C. — in a single summer. I
few of them, until we gradually narrowed it down to became quite handy at tripping through airports with
one image, which is the present-day cover. Neither of a case or two of books as carry-on luggage. The book's
us had ever designed a book cover before, and I'd sales enabled me to pay the monthly travel bills and
never negotiated for one, so for two neophytes I think shipping and handling. Thanks to the word-of-mouth
we did a really good job. publicity generated, I got lots of single orders, and
One day I realized I had all the makings of a book women’s bookstores discovered that a $19.95 book as
but no money to print it. I'd been working three singular as mine sold, repeatedly.
part-time jobs to pay contributors as I contracted Since publishing does your mama know?, I've
them and to pay Kamela. I found out much later that learned that the hardest work of publishing is mar-
it’s customary to pay “upon publication.” (Believe keting and distribution. Publishing may seem like a
me, every contract since that day lonely activity — just you and the
has had those specs!) Then, as I computer — until you realize
was bemoaning my fate to a you've got to get out and see who
friend, she announced that she your readers are. You also
had the money; indeed, she'd develop relationships with the
been saving it for me, knowing bookstore owners, since they
that I really wanted to publish this know the women in their commu-
book myself. Such good friends — nities who will be interested in
with money to lend! — are hard to come by. RedBone books. It wasn’t quite what I expected to be
Now I had no excuses. The cover design was doing as a publisher, but I've since developed a
done, the stories were edited, the contracts were all whole other side to my personality: Lisa C. Moore,
signed. I contacted a print broker who got quotes for Director of Publicity.
me while I sat at my computer and did the book’s lay- My sister had worked in a Black bookstore in
out. Within a month, I had typeset pages and a printer Florida that fulfilled mail orders, so I quizzed her on
to print them. shipping. I found companies that deliver boxes and
Five weeks later, 3000 copies of my first baby padded mailing bags, packing materials and rolls of
were delivered to my kitchen — I mean, inventory packing tape by the dozen. Between my sister's
storage. From the research I'd done, I knew that books knowledge and my accounting background, I knew I
typically need a six-month lead time for publicity, could handle sales and distribution. I bought
and I didn’t have that. So while the book was at the QuickBooks and used it to keep up with accounting,
printer, I created color flyers with the book’s cover making sure I printed and included invoices and
and mailed them to all the women’s bookstores, gay packing slips when mailing books. From working
bookstores, Black bookstores, and Black lesbian social with the newspaper's book editor, I already knew
groups I could find, not to mention every friend I'd how the press kits should look, what is required in a
ever had. I also sent notices to women’s studies press release, and how far in advance calendar editors
departments at universities. Within a week of the need it. I used that information to design my own
books’ arrival, I was sending out 100-plus review cop- press kit and book readings. Every time the book got
ies to gay media, women’s media, library media, and reviewed, off to Kinko’s I went to make copies to add
Black media — but not the mainstream. I knew from to my press kit. Whenever I booked a reading, I sent
working at the newspaper that the mainstream rarely press kits to the gay/lesbian, women’s, and Black
pays attention to a fringe book like mine, so I didn’t media and followed up with a press release two
bother letting them know about it. weeks prior to the event. The book’s contributors
Within a month after publication, I'd set up read- really helped by getting me information on what
ings at women’s and gay bookstores in major cities media contacts to target in their cities.
where the contributors lived: 18 stops in all — includ- So the summer of 1997 was my whirlwind sum-
ing Atlanta, New York, Boston, Chicago, Toronto, mer. I was still working part-time at the Atlanta
January/February 1999 32
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Journal-Constitution, travelling three to four days at a October. The first print run was 2000. It’s been
time, and shipping out books when I got back home. excerpted in Girlfriends Magazine and nominated by
Libraries starting sending in orders. I even got a few the American Library Association for the Gay/
college textbook orders. Borders and Barnes & Noble Lesbian Book Award. As of this writing, there have
sent single-title orders, at the special request been readings in Austin, Atlanta, and New York.
of women in places without independent The book tour revs up again in
bookstores. (I’ve been pretty adamant from January, when we go to New
the beginning that I wanted to focus my mar- Orleans, then Chicago, Atlanta,
keting efforts to the women’s bookstores, Boston, and Minneapolis. In the
since they got me my contributors.) I was spring, Sharon will perform in
still getting individual orders. And the book Detroit, on the West Coast, and in
was reviewed in so many places! Mama the South. Sharon is well-known
Bears’ newsletter, Chicago’s Blacklines, the in theater circles, so we're tagging
Lambda Book Report, the Bay Guardian, book readings/signings with per-
Venus Magazine, and Sojourner among formances and workshops. Sharon
others, not to mention the publicity from also actively publicizes her work;
online bulletin board recommendations. we check with each other to coordi-
The first print run of does your mama nate and make sure we don’t
know? sold out in eight months, so I went duplicate efforts. What money
back to press for 2000 more in late comes in from does your mama know?
November 1997. Those sold out in goes back into publicity, and to my
another six months, and now there are second child, bull-jean.
8000 in print. But I haven’t forgotten about my
I guess all the publicity was what firstborn. The next wave of marketing
helped does your mama know? sell so con- is academia: libraries and universities.
sistently — and get nominated for the With all the free time I have on my
Lambda Literary Awards. Actually winning two hands (/a!), I can concentrate on researching those
Lammys — something I never expected; just ask the markets, along with going to graduate school and send-
audience when I got the second award! — helped get ing Sharon out on tour with Þbull-jean. (I'll be traveling
me a distributor. Quite a few bookstores had refused with her for some events to see how the response is.)
to do business with me until I'd gotten a distributor, What have I learned? That there is a market for
but I was reluctant for at least two reasons: Distribu- Black lesbian writing, that a distributor does indeed
tors take a huge (to me) percentage, and I felt they help, that small print runs are good, that there’s noth-
didn’t know my market as well as I did. (Remember, ing like a well-publicized reading to sell books, that
I'm a control freak.) But after winning the Lammys, I women’s bookstores stick together, ...that y'all like
met with Nancy Bereano of Firebrand, who gave me me, you really like me! (I still can’t believe I said that
valuable information about distributors and directed at the awards dinner!)
me to LPC Group, who I'm with now. And I've And that I love this business, so I guess I've been
learned that I can still market to my audience, bitten by the bug. RedBone Press is committed to
develop new audiences, and work hand-in-hand with publishing one book per year — unless a fairy
my distributor. It doesn’t all rest on my shoulders godmother comes along to subsidize. Until then,
anymore, which is quite a change. After the flurry of operations are still on a small scale — though my
last summer, not talking to bookstore owners every computer has a room of its own in my house now,
day is different. Sometimes I feel like I don't know instead of a place next to the bed. But the smell of
what's going on in the world while waiting for a sales fresh ink still gets my adrenaline pumping, and the
report, but I know it’s part of working as a team. incredible response from readers, booksellers, and
So, the RedBone Press story. The new book, the other publishers lets me know my work is worth-
bull-jean stories by Sharon Bridgforth, came out in while. Y'all really do like me! o
Volume 21 Number 5 33 January/February 1999
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
hank You, Booksellers,
for 10 Magic Years
o
ANNOUNCING THE
10th Anniversary Editions of
Judith Duerk’ Classics
€)
CIRCLE OF. STONES
and Its Companion Volume
I SIT LISTENING. TO. THE WIND
n tribute to the more than 200,000 women who
have been drawn to Judith Duerk’s evocative
reflections and meditations—and with special thanks
to you, the booksellers who have enthusiastically
recommended these classics to your customers—
Innisfree Press is proud to announce the 10th
anniversary editions of
THE CIRCLE OF STONES SERIES.
or the first time, Judith Duerk’s readers
will have a chance to respond to the
words that have moved them so deeply. An
invitation is being issued for submissions
for THE CIRCLE CONTINUES anthology to
be printed in the year 2000. Promotion
kits with posters and submission forms
will be sent to members of the Feminist
Bookstore Network in January.
Bookstores outside of the network
please call us for your kit!
“An enormous seller for us.”—Amazon Books Distributed by
Consortium Book Sales.
In nri sf :r e eB “ P e arPe knrnia eel srbess t - s elI&lenr. ”g —rTLaam amm yas , B lo ookNs r eA ,lws o a v K aiLlab oele ea tfh nro,u ,gh
INITE A
PErCesEsS EInc. 800-367-5872 and Bookpeople.
January/February 1999 34 Volume 21 Number 5
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
continue to discover our women’s herstory, this is an
important text to add to our collections. $20 pb,
1-880589-27-3, Sky Carrier Press.
Sky Carrier Press, PO Box 2135, Aberdeen SD
Noted herstorian Sally Roesch Wagner has two 57402; 605-486-4310, email (swagner711@aol.com).
new titles out from Sky Carrier Press. Both books 40% discount on all bookstore orders, no minimum.
deal with 19th-century feminist, Matilda Joslyn Discount shipping and handling, return policy nego-
Gage. Gage, who lived in Central New York state, tiable. Call or write for details.
was instrumental in the women’s rights movement —Mary Ellen Kavanaugh/My Sisters’ Words
of the d May. atilda Joslyn Gage: She Who Holds the Sky The New Press Guide to Multicultural
by Sally Roesch Wagner, an 80-page booklet, is the Resources for Young Readers edited by Daphne
only biography of Gage available. She grew up in an Muse is quite simply a must-have for every book-
abolitionist household and circulated anti-slavery store that is serious about stocking and selling
petitions as a child; this created a woman of powerful children’s books, and certainly for all libraries. I'd
convictions. Although Elizabeth Cady Stanton is suggest two copies for stores: one for your reference,
often credited with being the guiding force behind the and one for sale. You might want to use your store
movement, Gage was, by far, the more involved. copy as the display copy; a book this big and heavy
Adopted into the wolf clan of the Mohawks in 1893, — and inherently browsable — is going to get shop-
she continued writing and rabble-rousing until her worn, and at $60 your customers are likely to want a
death in 1898. Carved on her tombstone is the follow- book that looks new. And let me address the price, as
ing: “There is a word sweeter than Mother, Home or I imagine this could be a deterrent to some to stock-
Heaven. That word is Liberty.” If you have a solid ing the book: For all the valuable information
biography section, this book belongs there. It pro- contained here, in such an attractive and accessible
bv oid oe ks s i am bop uo tr t a tn ht e i en rf ao . r m $1a 2t .i 9o 5n pm b,i s s 1in -8g 8 0 i 5n 8 9 -m 31an -1y , o St kh yer forma t T, h $ e6 0 N is e w ch e a Pp r. e R se sa l ly G. uide to Multicultural
Carrier Press. Resources for Young Readers includes over 1000
Woman, Church, and State by Matilda Joslyn critical and detailed reviews — including synopses,
Gage, edited with an afterword and bibliography by suggestions for classroom use, and assessments of
Sally Roesch Wagner. The back cover says it all: “Cen- key elements such as cultural sensitivity of text and
sored 100 years ago by the religious right and the illustrations — of a vast range of picture books,
increasingly conservative women’s suffrage move- biographies, poetry, anthologies, folktales, and
ment, this 1893 pioneering study of the suppression young adult novels. 690 two-column pages! If this
of women by church and state becomes newly acces- sounds like a dense tome for the educational market
sible in a special anniversary edition....” As we only*, though, just open the book to any page: The
T-shirt available from Northern Sun (800-258-8579) titles jump out at you, along with a few sentences
Volume 21 Number 5 35 January/February 1999
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
summarizing each book (which appear as from mainstream presses, though it also contains
pull-quotes) and thumbnail photos of the book jack- many small press titles. Booksellers, teachers, librari-
ets. I was drawn in immediately, skipping back and ans, parents, and others interested in inclusive
forth between sections. I'd picked up the book for a children’s literature can also make use of the
quick glance, and when I next lifted my eyes from resources listed in the back: catalogs; media; organi-
the pages I found that 45 minutes had passed. zations; magazines, newspapers and periodicals;
The reviews are organized by theme, and then storytelling organizations and resources; books of
grouped by grade level: K3, 4-6, 7-8. Themes children’s literature; and sources for book transla-
include: Cultural Identity; Justice, Human Rights, tions. $60 cl, 1-56584-339-8, 690 pages, The New Press.
Equity; Community /Friendship; Cultural Traditions Distributed by Norton.
and Ethnic Stereotyping; and” Building *The primary market for this book is the educa-
Cross-Cultural Relationships. The guide reviews tional market, but that doesn’t mean that others won’t
books on more than 20 ethnic, disabled, gay and find it fascinating, useful, and fun to peruse.
lesbian, and multiracial themes. The books are mostly —Lisa McGowan O
Behind the
Burnt Cork Mask
Early Blackface Minstrelsy and
Antebellum American Popular Culture
WILLIAM J. MAHAR
Aunt Molly Jackson grew up a coal miner’s daughter
Blackface performers helped shape images of race, in eastern Kentucky to become a folklore legend.
gender, and class in antebellum America. Through A labor activist, Molly wrote songs that fused hard
the songs, dances, jokes, parodies, spoofs, and skits, experience with rich Appalachian musical tradi-
white performers satirized majority values without tions. In 1931, at age fifty, Molly was “discovered”
directly attacking them. The burnt cork masked and brought north, where she joined an illustrious
these entertainers, shielding them from any personal circle of left-wing intellectuals and musicians. Her
identification with their material. An illuminating compelling story shows how the rural working poor
race and racial stereotypes. the Great Depression.
A volume in the series Music in American Life A volume in the series Music in American Life
Illus. Cloth, $60.00; Paper, $24.95 Illus. Cloth, $39.95; Paper, $18.95
Harry Ransom Research Center, The University of Texas at Austin Photo courtesy of Archie Green
PRESS ã- (800) 545-4703
January/February 1999 36 Volume 21 Number 5
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Titles by Sara Look of Charis Books, Atlanta GA; photo archive? Don’t let
Annotations by Teri Mae Rutledge and FBN details like that stand in
your way. It is a lovely
In 1997, Sara Look and the FBN staff put together little book — all the more poignant for the
the inaugural “African American Lesbian Section” fact that it’s 100% pure fiction. $15 cl, 0-963109-58-8,
article. It was, unarguably, one of the best articles we Artspace. Available from Koen.
ever published. People still ask us for it. Considering Venus by D. Gisele Isaac is the
Our neverending drive to be current has led us to story of Cassandra and Lesley, high school friends
update the list with 17 new titles. Again, we enlisted the that meet again after 25 years. Lesley is African Amer-
help of Sara Look of Charis Books, who, once again, has ican, a recent widow, and the mother of three
brought forth an amazing list of great literature. children. She looks to her old friend Cassandra to be
Seventeen books. For an article, it’s a fine number of her confidante. Cassandra is Antiguan and gay, and
books. But 17 books with African American lesbian themes she finds herself falling in love with Lesley. When
published in a whole year is precious few. And (Alice Cassandra confesses her feelings, Lesley flees; she
Walker notwithstanding) many of these books are not so needs to battle her own prejudices against lesbians, as
easy to find. I doubt Barnes and Noble stocked Love Like well as the reaction that her family will surely have.
Gumbo for more than a week. And how many would have But Lesley realizes that she does love Cassandra, and
made it into print at all if women’s and African American she returns to her. The plot is deceptively simple; this
stores didn't stock and promote them? love story frames some very ambitious themes. It
explores the intersection of love and sexual and racial
Don’t Explain: Short Fiction by Jewelle Gomez, identity in two very real women. I like Isaac's exami-
the Lambda Award-winning author of The Gilda nation of the line between friendship and sexuality in
Stories, demonstrates a wide literary range in this women’s relationships, and I like that it is a book
new collection. In her lush, sensuous voice Gomez about a relationship between women of color. These
explores racial, class, and generational boundaries in characters have complex lives that aren't at the poles
relationships, as well as exploring child abuse and of any socio-political spectrum — they are women
the hunger for love and connection. Fans will be who, ultimately, invent the ways in which they love
happy to know that this collection includes a new each other. $9.95 pb, 1-885778-42-2, Seaburn
Gilda story. $10.95 pb, 1-5634109-4-X, Firebrand. Publishers. Available from Koen.
Available from LPC. Juba by Letta Neely is a collection of poetry by
The Fae Richards Photo Archive by Zoe Leonard, the twice-National Queer Poetry Slam Champion.
photographer, and Cheryl Dunye, filmmaker, is a book Her poetry, at once spiritual and political, erotic and
you must be “in the know” to fully appreciate. Fae enraged, proves that Neely is an important voice from
Richards is the “Watermelon Woman,” the (fictional) a new generation of Black lesbian writers. $12 pb,
Black movie actor in Cheryl Dunye’s video of the same 0-966309-72-3, Wildheart Press, PO Box 1115, Jamaica
name. How can an invented, fictional character have a Plain MA 02130; 617-265-4555.
37 January/February 1999
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
By the Light of My Father's Smile: A Story of she’s had sex with women and men. But the little
Requited Love, Crossing Over, and the Sexual girl's face is still just behind the woman’s.
Healing of the Soul by Alice Walker is, as she says, “a Pentimento. When she gets up to shout the blues, to
celebration of sexuality, its absolute usefulness in the barrelhouse, to transform her audience, part of her is
accessing of one’s mature spirituality, and the father’s standing on Ninth Street under a moody sky.... When
role in assuring joy or sorrow in this arena for his Bessie sings in these clubs with the audience literally
female children.” A family from the U.S. moves to the spellbound, captivated, totally enthralled, she is not
Mexican Sierras to live among the Mundo, an endan- really paying them any attention.... Sometimes she’s
gered mixed-race band decended from Blacks and sure she saw her sister Tinnie right in the middle of
Indians. Walker's prose moves back and forth across that sea of faces.... Once she even saw her dead
time, across characters, and across mother standing for a single moment behind
convention. Bold and brilliant, the bar. After singing the blues, she knocks
Walker writes about family, spiritu- down one drink, then another, full of a terrible
ality, social justice, and love between longing for herself, for her family, for Chatta-
women as no one else can. Look for nooga. The whole theatre is full of a restless
this book at the top of the charts in longing. She gets people that way. She is right
women’s bookstores — and every- under their skin. She is closer than God.”
where else. $22.95 cl, 0-375-50152-5, $9.95 pb, 1-899791-70-1, Absolute Press.
Random House. Distributed by Stewart, Tabori, and Chang.
Má-ka: Diasporic Juks, Contem- Blues Legacies and Black Feminism:
porary Writing by Queers of African Gertrude “Ma” Rainey, Bessie Smith, and
Descent edited by Debbi Douglas, Billie Holiday by Angela Y. Davis explores
Courtney McFarlene, Makeda Silvera, the lives of these three jazz singers. Davis
and Douglas Stewart is Sister Vision's postulates that these artists acheived an
classic anthology exploring the experi- aesthetic dominance over the music indus-
ences of lesbians and gay men of African try and a sort of “proto-feminist”
descent. Includes prose and poetry by both new and consciousness within working-class Black communi-
established authors from the U.S., Canada, Britian, ties. As popular icons, they were extraordinary in that
Europe, the Caribbean, and Africa. These writers they celebrated non-wealthy, non-white, and
tackle the issues of living with many shifting identi- non-heterosexual social, moral, and sexuali values.
ties: social, political, and sexual. At times erotic, at “The artists addressed radical subjects such as physi-
others political, it’s an important gathering of writers cal and economic abuse, race relations, and female
and of literary conversation. Like all Sister Vision sexual power, including lesbianism. Ma Rainy was
titles, it’s a wonderful, thick, lovely book, with every well-known as a lover of women as well as men, and
bit as much care put in the design as into the work her song ‘Prove It on Me’ describes a butch woman
itself. $17.95 pb, 1-896705-14-6, Sister Vision Press. who dresses like a man and dates women. Blues
Distributed by the University of Toronto Press. Legacies and Black Feminism places the fluid sexual-
Bessie Smith by Jackie Kay takes us through the ity of these women within a larger context of African
life and times of one of the greatest blues singers who American artists’ attempts to subvert and recreate
ever lived. Writing as a part of Absolute Press’ America.” —Lesbian Studies. Davis transcribed all of
Outlines series, which explores and portrays the ways Rainy and Smith’s lyrics — they alone are worth the
in which homosexuality has informed the life and price of the book. $27.50 cl, 0-679-45005-X, Pantheon.
work of lesbian and gay artists, Kay mixes fact and fic- Angela Y. Davis Reader edited by Joy James is a
tion, poetry and prose in her portrait of Smith. Kay’s collection of 18 interviews, essays, and excerpts from
prose is gorgeous, and her descriptions of Smith’s life Davis’ work (including her memoir), spanning over
are stunning, full, and rich. From the book: “Picture 30 years. Davis writes about feminism, anti-racism,
her: 1921, 1922, bigger now, older now, wearing fancy political philosophy, and liberation theory. James
clothes. She’s made big money; she’s drunk bootleg; divides Davis’ writing into four parts: “Prisons,
January/February 1999 38 Volume 21 Number 5
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
voice exists. Reading one of her stories is like having
an espresso — very intense, very short, very addic-
tive. $12 pb, 0-395-90129-4, Houghton Mifflin.
The Truth That Never Hurts: Collected Writing,
0-631203-61-3, Blackwell. 1968-1998 by Barbara Smith collects the impassioned
writing of the radical, lesbian, African American, and
feminist writer, scholar, pubisher, and editor. She’s a
wonderfully impressive figure in world of women’s
letters. She is responsible for bringing into print many
vitally important voices, in addition to her own schol-
arship. Smith co-founded Kitchen Table: Women of
Color Press. Her literary critcism lambasts the aca-
demic establishment for misinterpreting and
disregarding the voices of Black women, particulary
Black lesbians; she chastises many straight Black
Publishers
Now Available at your
favorite bookstore. Coming soon to your favorite bookstore.
Boys Like Her The Revenge of Maria
by Taste This by Makeda Silvera
“It doesnt happen Set in North America and Jamaica,
often, but some- The Revenge of Maria is a multi-
times a book comes
layered story about the death of an È
at exactly the right unconquerable matriarch and the
time and ushers in an era. Boys Like generations of women who must release themselves
Her, created by the performance from her influential and indomitable spirit. Poignant
group Taste This, and published by and unforgettable, Makeda Silvera’ first novel is a
Press Gang Publishers is just such a breathtaking journey into family loyalties, betrayal
book.”—Lambda Book Report and the haunting power of memory.
October 1998 * 0-88974-086-0 • May 1999 * 0-88974-084-4 =
$15.95 US • $19.95 CDN * Paper $12.95 Use $16.95 CDN * Paper
39 January/February 1999
Volume 21 Number 5
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
women involved in the African American women’s Anthology of Contemporary Black Lesbian Writing.
literary renaissance who completely ignore the exis- Sabras is McKinley's memior about her transracial
tence of Black lesbians, and, indeed, are openly adoption and her search for her birth parents. Price
hostile to them. Smith also identifies a lack of nonfic- not available. 0-688-15926-5, Fall, William Morrow.
tion writing by African American women. In all, this Set in North America and Jamacia, The
collection underscores Smith’s role as an impassioned Revenge of Maria by Makeda Silvera is a novel
thinker and activist. $23 cl, 0-8135-2573-X, Rutgers about family loyalties, betrayal, and the haunting
University Press. power of memory. Silvera, one of the founders of
bull-jean stories by Sharon Bridgforth isn’t a Sister Vision Press (and an editor of Má-ka, above)
book that you read, it’s a book that you hear. writes a complex narrative which operates on many
Bridgforth’s debut work is a combination of levels. Maria is an unconquerable matriarch. When
poetry /monologue from the point of view of she dies, generations of women must try to free
bull-dog-jean. From the book: “na/i’sa wo'mn/what’s themselves from her spirit. A rich, gorgeous novel
Lovved many wy’mns./me/they call bull-dog-jean i from a gifted writer, publisher, and editor. $12.95 pb,
say /that’s cause i works lik somekinda ole dog trying
to git a bone or two/they say it’s cause i be a Press GLovae n Ligke. Gumbo by Nancy Rawles is
s gn ii nff gin g a naf dt e r t hw ay n'm gn ss // /do ww hn- al tow ev/b ee rg .- ” The i t Ch re e o s let o r ley s b o iaf n G lir va ic ne g B wro itu hss a hrd er, a f a m20 i- lyy e a ir n-old
language in bull-jean stories is sweet and 1970s L.A. In order to begin her life with
her Mexican girlfriend, Elena, Grace
of bull-dog-jean. Every passage sings, and decides that she must leave her family, a
(trust me) I'm showing great restraint by feat much easier said than done. Grace
only quoting one stanza. This book gets my N draws up a ten-point plan for achieving
her flight/disownment, at the center of
i recommendation and also a \ which is the refusal of her mother’s
gumbo. (Other points involve dressing
r$ De1ad2 ii n sgp, t b d, r o i 0i bt-.9 u6Y5ou t6 6 ew5o d9n-'1t - b7e b, d yRisae pdp boi Lonnt Peed . C Pgr . eKsNs. N E dl ie nn na e ri ,n ra e f ure sid n g d r te os s a ta tn ed n d b r Min ag ssin , g a nh der to
“ruining” her hair by picking it out in
Where to Choose by Penny Mickelbury an umbrella shape.) As the narrative flows
is a new Carol Ann Gibson mystery from the Lambda and points fail or are thwarted by Broussards dead
Award-winning author of One Must Wait (Simon & and alive, Grace comes to a deeper understanding of
Schuster), Keeping Secrets and Night Songs (both pub- who she is and what it means to be “a Broussard.” A
lished by Naiad). One of the finest trial lawyers in DC, thoroughly satisfying read. (And the descriptions
Carol Ann is still trying to pull herself together after of gumbo are positively mouth-watering. It made
her husband’s death; she hasn't stepped into a court- me long for New Orleans.) $14 pb, Fjord Press,
rOOm in over a year. A distraction from her grief 0-940242-75-3.
comes in the form of a cry for help: a friend of her If You Come Softly by Jacqueline Woodson is a
mother is attacked in Carol Ann’s childhood home in new young adult novel. Woodson tells the story of a
West L.A. Once there, Carol Ann realizes that her straight teenage couple: Miah, a Black boy, and Ellie, a
hometown is under siege, and no one seems to know Jewish girl. As the pair tackles racism from everyone,
where the trouble is coming from — nor does anyone from strange white women in Central Park to Ellie's
(including the police) seem eager to do anything lesbian sister, they confront their own feelings about
about it. Carol Ann begins to investigate and soon their racial identities. Ellie is planning to bring Miah
becomes a target of the city’s violence. $22 c|, home to meet her parents when the narrative turns to
0-684-83742-0, February, Simon and Schuster. its violent, devastating climax — a climax that, given
Keep an eye out this Fall for the release of Sabras the clues in the narrative, was perhaps not surprising.
by Catherine McKinley, the editor of Afrekete: $15.99 c], 0-399-23112-9, Penguin. O
January/February 1999 40 Volume 21 Number 5
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
£.. :
BUTLER |
They are small, gift-sized books — very appealing.
Uppity Women of Medieval Times by Vicki Leon
Compiled by Teri Mae Rutledge ($14.95 pb, 1-57324-0397, Conari) includes very read-
able descriptions of “200 daring damsels who dazzled
An incredible number of African American and the Dark Ages and rocked the Renaissance.” In a simi-
women’s bookstores responded to our call for “book- lar vein is Uppity Women of Ancient Times ($14.95
seller recommendations” for Black History Month pb, 1-57324-0109, Conari). Hell’s Belles by Seale
and/or Women’s History Month. The lists are as Ballinger ($14.95 pb, 1-57324-0966, Conari) is a “trib-
unique as the stores they came from. Some lists focus ute to spitfires, bad seeds and steel magnolias in the
on one month or the other, some on both. Some of the new and old South.” And Drama Queens ($15.95 pb,
books are core titles for Black or women’s history sec- 1-57324-1369, Conari) by Autumn Stephens looks at
tions, some are personal favorites. Some are wild women of the silver screen. Another very acces-
bestsellers and others are from way off the main- sible history title is What Every American Should
stream track. Think of these lists as a dozen secret Know about Women’s History by Christine
family recipes for strong sales. Lunardini ($10.95 pb, 1-55850-687-X, Adams), which
Our thanks to all of the booksellers who, at a very includes 200 events that “shaped our destiny.”
busy time of year, took the time and the care to con- A more in-depth but still quite accessible intro-
tribute to this collaborative effort. duction to U.S. women’s history is A History of
Women in America by Carol Hymowitz and
Michaele Weissman ($14.95 pb, 0-553-26914-3,
Antigone Books Bantam). Unequal Sisters: A Multicultural Reader
Tucson AZ in U.S. Women’s History edited by Vicki Ruiz and
By Trudy Mills Ellen DuBois ($29.95 pb, 0-415-90892-2, Routledge) is
a more scholarly text; but, importantly, it is more
Women’s History Month focused on the diversity of our history, including
History books are not usually the hottest sellers important work on Native Americans, African Amer-
in our store, so we love the fact that March gives us an icans, Asian Americans, Latinas, working-class
excuse to highlight this area. It’s a great time to create women, and lesbians. In a similar vein, The Reader’s
fun displays, especially since the National Women’s Companion to U.S. Women’s History edited by
History Project makes it so easy. Their catalog is a Wilma Mankiller, Gwendolyn Mink, Marysa
great give-away item (always an attention getter!) Navarro, Barbara Smith, and Gloria Steinem ($45 cl,
and the balloons, buttons, etc., make for a great dis- 0-395-67173-6, Houghton Mifflin) is an extraordinary
play. If you haven't ordered from them before, their and important collection. Coming in paper in time for
number is 707-838-6000. Women’s History and Black History Month is a very
There are a lot of fun women’s history books out important book, Shining Thread of Hope: The
right now. Conari publishes a great series of books. History of Black Women in America by Darlene
41
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Clark Hine and Kathleen Thompson ($14 pb, Sisters of the Wind by Elizabeth Bell ($14.95 pb,
0-7679-0111-8, Broadway). For customers interested 0-9623879-40, Trilogy) is an inspiring study of the
in Western European history, The Prospect Before writings of a group of daring American and British
Her by Olwen Hufton ($18 pb, 0-679-76818-1, Ran- aviation pioneers. And before taking to the air, we
dom House) is an impressive historical tapestry, and had sailors, and Hen Frigates by Joan Druett ($25 cl,
Century of Women: The History of Women in Brit- 0-684-83968-7, Simon & Schuster) is a fascinating
ain and the U.S. in the 20th Century by Shelia account of the joys and perils of women who sailed
Rowbotham ($16.95 pb, 0-14-023282-6, Penguin) is an with their 19th-century ship-captain husbands.
important book. Medicine Women: The Story of
Comprehensive reference books are vital to a Early-American Women Doctors by Cathy Luchetti
history section, but my favorites tend to be books that is a beautiful book with excerpts from 19th-century
explore a topic or group of people in-depth and biog- women’s diaries and 150 photographs. $25 cl,
raphies that help history come alive. Here are some 0-517-598485, Crown.
recommendations: Pioneer Women: The Lives of Women on the
Frontier by Linda Peavy and Ursula Smith ($17.95 pb,
0-8061-3054-7, University of Oklahoma Press) con-
tains ongoing commentary and wonderful
N EW, ERO. M Ai LYS AOAN photographs. And one of my favorite books about
pioneer women is Lillian Schlissel’s Women’s
These fascinating life stories read like Diaries of the Westward Journey ($14 pb,
novellas, introducing us to worlds that 0-8052-10040, Shocken).
would soon have been lost to us. Sisters in Arms by Jo Ann Kay McNamara is the
first definitive history of Catholic nuns in the Western
— Noel Riley Fitch, T hau et h Bo ir o g rof ap hA yp p oe fti t Je u f lio ar C L hi if lde: world. $18.95 pb, 0-674-8095-8, Harvard.
Nike is a Goddess by Lissa Smith is a wonderful
look at the history of women in sports. $24 c|,
0-87113-726-7, Atlantic Monthly Press.
Hatchepsut: Female Pharaoh by Joyce Tyldesley
is an absorbing and scholarly biography of this Egyp-
tian pharaoh. $14.95 pb, 0-14-024464-6, Penguin.
Sojourner Truth: A Life, a Symbol by Nell Irvin
Painter is “first-rate history that peels away the myths
and legends so we might get at a history of Sojourner
Truth.” $14.95 pb, 0-393-31708-0, Norton.
Other Powers by Barbara Goldsmith is an excel-
lent read about “the age of suffrage, spiritualism, and
the scandalous Victoria Woodhull.” It is due in paper
from HarperCollins in April. $16 pb, 0-06-095332-2.
Transgender Warriors by Leslie Feinberg is a
history of transgendered people from Joan of Arc to
p iAonne eurns f owrh os t apbalvee d " r t hbei s twé a yo f f otrh e g adyar iinbgeration Denni s T rR iao ld s m oa fn . M $ a1 r7 i a p Bb, a r b0 e- l8 l0 a7 0 b- y79 4 I1 d- a3 n, n aB e Pa uco cn ci. looks at
the 1895 trial of Maria Barbella, an immigrant woman
H on trial for killing a man who raped her. A fascinating
trial and a great history of that time period. $13 pb,
0-679-77604-4, Vintage.
www.alyson.com Those who have read Blanche Wiesen Cook's
Eleanor Roosevelt: Volume I, 1884-1933 have been
January/February 1999 42
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
not-so-patiently waiting for Volume II, and it looks If you've never visited rural Black America, read this
like it’s finally coming from Viking in April. $34.95 cl, for the trip of a lifetime. $22 cl, 0-316-46084-2, Little,
0-14-009460-1. Brown.
Finally, a wonderful way to introduce people to Africans in America: America’s Journey
women’s history is through novels that take history through Slavery by Charles Johnson, Patricia Smith,
seriously. Some recommendations: and the WGBH Series Research Team. If you missed
Secret Book of Grazia dei Rossi by Jacqueline the original PBS presentation in October, now is the
Parks is a fascinating look at a Jewish woman opportunity to own the book, which goes into further
during the Renaissance. $13 pb, details on how Africans helped build
0-684-84840-6, Scribner. this nation. It covers the period from
Gone to Soldiers by Marge Piercy the initial landing at Jamestown
($6.99 pb, 0-440-21557-1 Fawcett) is a through the late 1800s. A must for every
page-turner in which the lives of six women personal home library. $30 cl,
and four men intersect in a feminist look at 0-15-100339-4, Harcourt Brace.
World War III. Piercy also tackles the French How to Kill Your Willie Lynch by
Revolution in City of Darkness, City of Lawanda Staten. In 1712 a slave owner
Light ($12 pb, 0-449-912752, Fawcett). from the West Indies named Willie
A Killing in New Town by Kate Lynch gave a speech that consisted of a
Horsley is a story (part mystery, part plan to control the slaves in the colony of
adventure) that takes place in a boom- Virginia. Ms. Staten, a resident of Califor-
town in the Southwest in the late 1880s. nia, provides a thought-provoking look
Horsley’s depiction of this time period is into the experience of African Americans
wonderful and disturbing. $14 pb, 0-963-190962, and other ethnic groups who must deal
La Alameda Press. with “modern day Willie Lynches.” $11 pb,
0-9664722-0-9, self-published.
Black Book Worm StyleNoir by Constance C.R. White. This is the
first “how-to” fashion guide written with Black
Ft. Worth TX women in mind. It is long overdue! Includes a history
By Sonia Williams-Babers of Blacks’ contribution to fashion. Chapters worth
reading twice are “Dressing for the Job,” “Afri-
Black History/Women’s History Months can-Inspired Accessories,” and “The General Basis of
The Wake of the Wind by J. California Cooper. Style.” $15 pb, 0-399-52379-0, Berkely Publishing
Ms. Cooper has a unique knack for giving “full life” to Group.
her characters. Each time I read her works, I get inti-
m ana dt e l ty h e a c bq au da i n ot ne ed s . w Init h h eh re r l a tp ee so tp l e b o o— k , t h we h i cg ho o d h a sones Black Images Book Bazaar
already made Blackboard Bestsellers List, she pro- Dallas TX
vides an compassionate look into the lives of African By Emma Rodgers, co-owner of Black Images
Americans immediately after slavery and the begin-
ning of Reconstruction. You can get so caught up in Black History/Women’s History Months
the book that you feel that you're right on the freedom Beloved by Toni Morrison provides an opportu-
road with the family as they try to establish them- nity for you to know the depths of what it meant,
selves as full and equal citizens of a country — a physically and psychologically, to be a slave. She
country that African Americans helped to build. explores the pain of being collared in iron, having an
$22.95 cl, 0-385-48704-5, Doubleday. iron bit placed in your mouth and manacles around
Just Plain Folks by Lorraine Johnson-Coleman. your wrists, caring for swollen and split feet, and
This is a wonderful collection of heartwarming short being sexually violated. Sethe, mother of four
stories and essays from the “Southern point of view.” children, decides that it is better for her children to
Volume 21 Number 5 43 January/February 1999
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Police violence, corruption, and greed continue to
WOMAN, CHURCH AND STATE haunt the LAPD. Our heroine, her female police part-
` Matilda Joslyn Gage ner, and her family are not only committed to solving
$e 2d 0it .0ed 0, b Iy SB NSa : l l 1y - 8 R 80o 5e 8sc 9h -2 7W -3agner at nh de m jusu tr id cee .r s , $ 2 3b .u 9t 5 a cr le , 0a -ls 3o 9 3 -c 0o 4m 6m 80i -t Xte , d N t oo r t oc nom .munity
| “This [1893] book...is a classic. In Miss Ophelia by Mary Burnett Smith,
| Readers will find that the ques- eleven-year-old Belly’s summer is getting off to a terri-
` t„| | h t si eo h n e s fp s euh t me s ir f na oi rs ite shd t .. .a a n r sed e ast t rh ile cl h a cr eg nu ftm r oae l r n t t s o values and b hl ae v e s t aa r t b a bw yh . e n B e lh lyer ’s b pe as st s i of nr i e fn od r, rT ee ae dn iy ng, i ws i ls lh i np op te d q uo ef lf l to
1 meaning.” — Andrea Dworkin her boredom with staying home for the summer, so
she decides to go away for the summer to help her
MATILDA JOSLYN GAGE: strong-willed Aunt Rachel recover from surgery. The
She Who Holds The Sky piano lessons from Miss Ophelia, her aunt's neighbor
Sally Roesch Wagner and her mother’s childhood friend, adds enjoyment to
$12.95, ISBN: 1-880589-31-1 Belly’s summer. $13 pb, 0-688-16357-2, Quill.
You need at least two different-color highlighters
P war it t hof t Eh le i z s au bff er tag he “ Ctr aiu dm yv ir a Ste t” anton and and a pen to embark on the journey to improve your
Susan B. Anthony, Gage’s theory emotional and spiritual health that Iyania Vanzant
formed the foundation for much of outlines in One Day My Soul Just Opened Up: Forty
the woman's rights cause. More Days and Forty Nights to Spiritual Growth. Vanzant
radical than the other two women, guides you through readings and exercises to help
Gage was deliberately written-out you tap the inner self and change your behavior.
nof e v eh ri s t qo ur iy te, a ses e t h Suis s a nm o Bn .o g Ar nap thh o nd yo c u tm hee n st as m. eY o au g a w ini l l after Now, don’t think you have to accomplish this feat in
reading it. 40 days and 40 nights. It may take you 40 days per
The full extent of the treachery...has not yet been principle or longer. Just work at your own pace, but
fathomed and maybe never will — Matilda Joslyn Gage most importantly, get on the journey. $13 pb,
0-684-84134-7, Simon & Schuster.
Sky Carrier Press Friends since school, four women with a range of
P V.O oi. c eB o mx a i2 l 1 3 25 4, hA ob ue rr sd : e e 6n 0 5 -S 4D 8 6 -5 47 34 10 02 careers and a range of opportunities and challenges
continue their bond into maturity in Pride by Lorene
Email: swagner711@aol.com Cary. Adoption, abortion, alcoholism, tenure,
betrayal, politics, education, and responsibility are
issues intertwined into this many-layered novel.
remain free at any cost than return to the horrors of $23.95 cl, 0-385-48131-4, Doubleday.
slavery. This decision is a personal sacrifice that Sally Hemings by Barbara Chase-Riboud is a
haunts her forever. $12.95 pb, 0-452-28062-1, Plume. romanticized version of the sexual relationship
The Black and White of It by Ann Allen Shockly between slave master, Thomas Jefferson, and his
offers readers several examples of what outing was slave, Sally Hemings. The Father of the Declaration of
like “back in the day.” This collection of short stories Independence travels the world with his entourage,
has several scenarios of women loving women inti- which includes a slave girl, Hemings. Sally’s options
mately, be they politicians, teachers, married, single, are limited and she must submit totally to Jefferson,
separated, or beloved. She also explores racism in the bearing him several children who are raised as slaves
lesbian community and dating across color and age in the Monticello Estate. Her brother, on the other
lines. $7.95 pb, 0-930044-96-7, Naiad Press. hand, refuses to participate in the slave culture and
Inner City Blues by Paula Woods is a new mys- will not be used as a stud to help build his master’s
tery set in Los Angeles with heroine, Charlotte Justice, coffers. He takes advantage of his foreign assignment
who fights the negative perception that “all the Black and remains free in Paris while Sally lobbies for her
males are guilty and all the women are incompetent.” children’s freedom. $12 pb, 0-345-38971-9, Ballantine.
January/February 1999 44
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Somebody Else's Child by Terris McMahan tle too much religion to suit him; and his mother, Lou-
Grimes is a hilarious mystery featuring corporate ise, gave up her family to explore her singing career in
professional-turned-sleuth, Theresa Calloway. She France. Gregory discovers that relationships seek
unwittingly becomes a gumshoe at the behest of her their own paths despite the best intentions. $12 pb,
mother. Calloway has to neglect responsibilities at 0-9662578-0-4, Akimac.
home and the office to solve murders in the old neigh-
borhood. $4.99 pb, 0-451-18672-9, Signet. Black Books Plus
Stigmata by Phyllis Alesia Perry is the story of
Lizzie DuBose, who has inherited her grandmother's New York City
handmade quilt — a quilt that opens windows to the Glenderlyn Johnson told us about books that are
souls of those who came before her. Lizzie’s secure popular with her customers.
world begins to unravel as she slips back and forth
between the present and distant past to make sense Black History/Women'’s History Months
out of reality. This work reminds me of Toni Cade Glenderlyn loves Just Plain Folks by Lorraine
Bambara’s The Salt Eaters. $21.95 cl, 0-7868-6 Johnson-Coleman. “It’s so for real, about real people,”
408-7, Hyperion. she said. It’s a book of original tales of living, lov-
The discovery of self is at the center of ing, and learning from people in the rural
Sula by Toni Morrison. Once Sula Peace south. Just Plain Folks pays homage to
discovers her being, she is comfortable in ordinary folks, kin folks. It’s about real
constructing her world and handling all Black culture, folk culture. Glenderlyn
consequences. She is also capable of | added that it would make a great gift
destroying all obstructions that prevent book. $22 cl, 0-316-46084-2, Little, Brown.
her from reaching her apex. Sula knows The Farming of Bones by Edwidge
that she is responsible for her happiness Dandicat is getting a great deal of attention.
or lack thereof. Her childhood friend, Dandicat: has visited the: store for
Nel Wright, on the other hand, is
dependent on those outside the self to P | big following at Black Books Plus. $23 cl,
add value and meaning to her life. 1-56947-126-6, Soho Press.
Sula explains to Nel, “My loneliness is A new novel, Waiting in Vain by Colin
mine.” What power for a woman growing up in Channer, is also popular. Booklist said that
the 20s, 30s, and 40s. $11.95 pb, 0-452-26349-2, Berkley “this is not another sister-girl-waiting-to-exhale
Publishing Group. novel of loves wronged and hearts broken. Rather,
In The Wake of the Wind J. California Cooper Channer has created a story that explores the issues
provides a saga of what life was like for slaves after of romance, friendship, homosexuality, and love.
the Emancipation Proclamation was issued, although The cast of characters includes sculptors, writers,
it took two years and five months more for the Texas poets, and musicians.” $23 cl, 0-345411-78-1, One
Negroes to be freed. Lifee and Mor methodically and World Press.
painstakingly plan for their family’s survival as they Finally, For Black Writers: A Personal Account
walk to a better life. The couple form strategic and of How to Write, Publish and Market Your First
family alliances with other free men and women and Book by Alinona L. Gibson is also a strong seller.
whites to help protect their property and family. $23 Glenderlyn said that it’s very well-done with a lot of
c], 0-385-48704-5, Doubleday. excellent information. For example, the book
A female writer presents a male voice and explains the mechanics and importance of promo-
nuances in When All Hell Breaks Loose by Comic tion and provides a glossary of terms. It also includes
Spencer, a novel for the twenty-something audience. interviews with publishers and listings of Black
Gregory Aston has three very independent women in publishing companies, agents, and distributors. The
his life: Adrian, his soon-to-be fiancé, operates a author self-published this manual. $14 pb, 0-966265
top-of-the-line hair salon; his sister, Shreese, has a lit- -40-8, ALB Publishing.
45 January/February 1999
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Herland Book-Café
Physical Health and Emotional Well-Being
Santa Cruz CA edited by Linda Villarosa is the best book of it’s
Kayla Rose told us about Herland's favorite titles. kind. $20, 0-06-095085-4, HarperPerennial.
Black History/Women’s History Months and Self-Esteem by Julia A. Boyd is elegant,
Assata is an autobiography by Assata Shakur. eloquent, and urgently important. $9.95 pb,
Even though Herland only gets a 25% discount from 0-452-27246-7, Plume.
B&T on this title, it’s still well worth ordering. Assata
is a book that provides insight into the role that McElroy is a staff favorite for its lyrical charm.
women played in the Black Panther party. Shakur $13.95 pb, 1-556890-59-4, Coffeehouse Press.
was implicated in a murder and was sentenced to life
in prision. She currently lives in Cuba. $13.95 pb, bell hooks rocks our world! $12.95pb,
1-5565-2074-3, Lawrence Hill & Co. 0-8050-5027-2, Henry Holt.
Kayla also sells tons of Angela Davis: An Auto-
biography, which also only gets a 25% discount from Activism by Alice Walker. Thank goddess for
B&T. (Davis lives in Santa Cruz and teaches at the the paperback version; it has sold exceedingly
History of Consciousness program at UCSC.) $14.95 well. $12.95 pb, 0-345-40796-2, Ballantine.
pb, 0-717806-67-7, International Publishing Co.
bell hooks’ Teaching to Transgress is also a Critical Perspectives by Feminists of Color
perennial bestseller at Herland. $17.99 pb, 0-415 edited by Gloria Anzaldua was brought to our
-90808-6, Routledge. attention by a customer's request, and we
Women’s History Month q 1u -8ic 7k 9l 9y 6 0 -f 1e 0l -l 9 ,i n A ulo nv te Lw ui tt eh Bt oh oi ks s .title. $17.95 pb,
From the Uppity Women series, Sheroes: Bold,
Brash and Absolutely Unabashed Superwomen, Women on Race and Sex in America by Paula
from Susan B. Anthony to Xena by Varla Ventura is Giddings. The title says it all. $14 pb,
also a strong seller at Herland. $16.95 pb, 0-688-14650-3, William Morrow.
1-57324-128-8, Conari.
For women’s history month, Kayla particularly bell hooks. Seems we just can't get enough of
recommends The Girls’ Guide to Take over the Ms. hooks! $17.95 pb, 0-415-90811-6, Routledge.
World: Writings from the Girl Zine Revolution The Book of African-American Women: 150
edited by Tristan Taormino and Karen Green. Kayla Crusaders, Creators and Uplifters by Tonya
points out that the history makers of the future are Bolden is a bestseller year-round. $16 pb,
the girls putting out zines today, and putting them- 1-558506-47-0, Adams.
selves out into the world. $14.95 pb, 0-312-15535-2, Celebrating Women’s History: A Women’s
St. Martin’s. History Month Resource Book by Mary Ellen
Snodgrass is similar in concept to the Black
Her Story Women's Bookstore H aci ts it vo ir ty ie s M ao nn dt h p rR oe jes co tu sr c e t h aB to o ck a. n I t b e c o dn ot nai ens 300
York County PA with a variety of age groups, from pre-K
By Kathy Weems through adults. Teachers raved about this
book last year. $59.50 cl, 0-787606-05-7, Visible
Black History/Women'’s History Months Ink Press.
1. does your mama know? edited by Lisa Moore The Body Project: An Intimate History of
is an important anthology of Black lesbian American Girls by Joan Jacobs Brumberg
coming-out stories. $19.95 pb, 0-9656659-0-9, “offers us an insightful and entertaining history
RedBone Press. behind the destructive mantra of the 90s — ‘I
January/February 1999 46
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
hate my body!” — Katie Couric. $13 pb, Lioness Books
0-679-73529-1, Vintage.
The Princessa: Machiavelli for Women by Sacramento CA
Harriet Rubin had a title that intrigued us, and By Theresa Corrigan
it didn’t disappoint the go-getter business
wDomene whlo l sh.op here! $9.95 pb, 0-440-50832-0, Black History/Women’s History Months
Her by Cherry Muhanji is at the top of my list of
Generations: A Century of Women Speak favorite lesbian novels. Her reads like jazz poetry. In
about Their Lives by Myriam Miedzian is an fact, one of my favorite ways of encouraging people to
excellent book! Remarkable! The staff's favorite read it is to read a paragraph to them because once
book to sell! $16.95 pb, 0-385-33325-0, Delta. people hear the rhythm and lyricism of the prose,
Taking Women Seriously: Lessons and they want to buy it. I would urge you to recommend it
Legacies for Educating the Majority by M. to all customers who are looking for quality lesbian
Elizabeth Tidball and Jill K. Conway. literature. $9.95 pb, 1-879960-02-8, Aunt Lute
Okay, we admit it. We love Books.
anything by Jill K. Conway. Teaching to Transgress by bell hooks is a
$29.50 cl, 1-57356-092-8, book that I not only love, but assign every semes-
Oryx Press. c\ ter to my Introduction to Women’s Studies class.
Nike Is a Goddess: The It is one of the best descriptions of the purpose
History of Women in Sports and function of education and the educator that
edited by Mariah I've ever read. And students love it. So if you
Burton-Nelson and Lissa know any professors or students who aren't
Smith shot to the top of our familiar with it, recommend it highly. $17.99
re-order database immediately pb, 0-415-90808-6, Routledge.
after mailing the 1998 FBN Bailey's Cafe by Gloria Naylor is a book
catalog. $24, 0-87113-726-7, most of our customers aren't familiar with
Atlantic Monthly Press. \ until we point it out — even though everyone
The Encyclopedia of Women’s has read Naylor's Women of Brewster Place.
History in America by Kathryn This is a stunning and surrealistic novel about fate
Cullen-Dupont. Is it possible to have too many and connection: the characters only find the cafe if
reference books about women’s history? This they need to. Told in many voices, the tales in this
book convinced us it’s not. $22.50 pb, novel take the reader to a mystical place of survival
0-306-80868-4, Da Capo. and hope. $11 pb, 0-679-74821-0, Random House.
What Every American Should Know About Uprooting Racism: How White People Can
Women’s History: 200 Events That Shaped Work for Racial Justice by Paul Kivel is recom-
Our History by Christine Lunardini just keeps mended by Gretchen, one of our most supportive
selling and selling and selling. $10.95 pb, customers and our new employee. She said, “It is
1-558506-87-0, Adams. good to be an ally, but I feel the need to do something
The American Women’s Almanac: An about racism. This book gave me direction.” $16.95
Inspiring and Irrevent Women’s History by pb, 0-86571-338-3, New Society Publishers.
Louise Bernikow is another invaluable resource Killing Rage: Ending Racism by bell hooks is
of women’s herstory. $16.95 pb, 0-425-15616-8, another of Gretchen’s suggestions. She loves bell
Berkley Publishing Group. hooks’ work and this is her favorite. I concur that this
Sheroes: Bold, Brash and Absolutely book is outstanding. As a teacher, I use hooks’ work as
Unabashed Superwomen, from Susan B. an integrity magnet. When I feel myself distracted by
Anthony to Xena by Varla Ventura is t/e campus politics and slipping away from what I know
perfect gift book to inspire young feminists. to be my real purpose in teaching, I read and reread
$16.95 pb, 1-57324-128-8, Conari. bell hooks. $12.95 pb, 0-8050-5027-2, Henry Holt.
47 January/February 1999
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Women’s History Month concerns from bra size to cosmetics. It explores
I've waited with anticipation for the new edition the gains and losses of girls since the time
of Women Who Kill by Ann Jones because I think it of the corset. This book reveals a history that
should be a staple in any library of feminist theory. needs to be told. $13 pb, 0-679-40297-7,
Women Who Kill uses the theme of women who Random House.
were accused of murder to illustrate and examine the 4. Medicine Women: A Pictoral History of
interconnected forces of sexism, racism, and classism Women Healers by Elisabeth Brooke. $20 pb,
and how they are reflected in the criminal justice sys- 0-835607-51-8, Quest Books.
tem. This new edition adds discussion about the legal 5. Why History Matters by Gerda Lerner. $13.95
system's response to women who are battered, partic- pb, 0-195-12289-5, Oxford University Press.
ularly those who defend themselves. $15 pb,
0-8070-6775-X, Beacon. Sisterhood Bookstore
The study of history is typically limited to Euro,
then Euro-American stories; even women’s history is Los Angeles CA
often simply filling in the gaps of those common sto- Sue Otto told us about Sisterhood'’s favorite titles.
ries. If the purpose of history is to offer insights into
how to live the future, The Sacred Hoop by Paula Black History/Women'’s History Months
Gunn Allen presents a much older and mòöre viable ° Too Heavy a Load: Black Women in Defense of
vision. The front cover of the books carries this quote: Themselves by Deborah Gray White is a history
“A landmark book which may prove as important to of the struggle of Black women to attain equality
American Indian women as Simone de Beauvior’s The from exploitation by the author of Ain't I a
Second Sex has been for western non-tribal women.” Woman. $25.95 cl, 0-393-04667-2, Norton.
New Directions for Women. This kindof ° Feminist Theory, From Margin to Center by bell
compartmentalization (the assumption that Native hooks. $14 pb, 0-89608-2210, South End Press.
American history is only relevant to Native Ameri- ° Bone Black: Memories of Girlhood by bell
cans) is what keeps our movement divided. The hooks. $11.95 pb, 0-8050-5512-6, Henry Holt.
Sacred Hoop is important to everyone who is inter- ° Sisters of the Yam by bell hooks is a book that
ested in peace, ecological continuity, and feminism. Sue fell in love with when she read it for a
$15 pb, 0-8070-4617-5, Beacon. psychology class. It encourages women to heal
themselves by struggling against both
New Words institutionalized and internalized patriarchy.
More than a feel-good approach to feeling bad,
Cambridge MA Sisters of the Yam analyzes forces that make and
By Gilda Bruckman keep women dusfunctional and shows how to
overcome these limitations. $14 pb, 0-89608-4566,
Women’s History Month South End Press.
1. Sisters in the Resistance: How Women Fought ° Unequal Sisters: A Multicultural Reader in U.S.
to Free France (1940-1945) by Margaret Collins Women’s History edited by Vicki Ruiz. $29.99 pb,
Weitz examines a part of history that’s 0-415-90892-2, Routledge.
consistently overlooked. $16.95 pb, ° Women, Race, and Class by Angela Davis. $12
0-471-19698-3, Wiley and Sons. pb, 0-394-71351-6, Random House.
2. A Midwife’s Tale: The Life of Martha Ballard, Sister Outsider by Audre Lorde. $12.95 pb,
Based on Her Diary, 1785-1812 by Laurel 0-8959-41414, Crossing Press.
Thatcher, edited by J. Laslocky Ulrich. $13 pb, Undersong: Chosen Poems, Old and New by
0-679-73376-0, Vintage Books. Audre Lorde. $11.95 pb, 0-393-30975-4, Norton.
3. The Body Project: An Intimate History of Born for Liberty by Sarah Evans is a history of
American Girls by Joan Jacobs Brumberg is women in America. $15 pb, 0-6848-34987,
important and unique. This book traces girls’ Free Press.
January/February 1999 48
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
° Incidents in the Life of a Slave Girl by Harriet Renaissance edited by Joanne M. Braxton and
Jacobs is commonly adopted for courses from Andree Nicola McLaughlin is the first comprehensive
women’s studies to multicultural studies at collection of critical and theoretical essays to explore
UCLA. Sue reports that it is listed for a class the literary and multicultural traditions of Black
every semester. This cross-disciplinary interest American women in many genres over a broad span
makes the book an important one to stock at of time. The essays explore cultural and literary
Sisterhood. $13.95 pb, 0-195-06670-7, Oxford experience in a wide context and offer a variety of
University Press. critical theoretical constructs in which to view that
° Black Women for Beginners by Saundra Sharp, experience. $17.95 pb, 0-8135-1442-8, Rutgers Univer-
an L.A. author, chronicles the trials and sity Press.
triumphs of Black women throughout history — The Rising Song of African American Women
describing warriors, healers, teachers, mothers, by Barbara Omolade explores the politics and vision
queens, and liberators — and discusses the of Black feminists in our world today, examines the
challenges Black women around the world have — Social and cultural significance of
o anve dr c Rom eae d. e r $ s1 1 P r p esb s, . 0-863161-47-2, Writers Yv Nsm . g | pS lo au cl e s B l ta hc ek pw ro esm enen t din ayte l l wec ot ru ka ,l s , f aa mn -d
° Their Eyes Were Watching God by Zora . ily, and sexual experiences of most
Neale Hurston. $13.50 pb, 0-06-091650-8, Black women within their histori-
HarperCollins. cal background. By speaking to a
° does your momma know by Lisa Moore. number of specific events and
Sue loves to sell this title because there is so issues, Omolade presents a chal-
little literature in the world about lesbians of lenging political perspective and
color. This collection of coming-out stories is analyzes the significance of Black
therefore a great personal favorite of Sue’s. women’s lives in creating a pow-
$19.95 pb, 0-9656659-0-9, RedBone Press. erful new way of writing. $19.99
° Nappy Edges by Ntozake Shange. $10.95 pb, pb, 0-415-90761-6, Routledge.
0-312-06424-1, St. Martin’s Press. Based on materials from
° Kindred by Octavia Butler. $13 pb, the nationally acclaimed Black
0-8070-8305-4, Beacon Press. Holocaust Exhibit, Lest We Forget by Velma
° I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings by Maya Maia Thomas documents the plight of an estimated
Angelou. $5.50 pb, 0-553-27937-8, Bantam. 100 million Africans, from their rich pre-slavery cul-
° The Color Purple by Alice Walker. $6.99 pb, ture to their enslavement in a foreign land. This book
0-67-172779-6, Pocket Books. is a collection of stirring historic papers, memoirs,
+ Women of Brewster Place by Gloria Naylor. personal effects, and photographs brought to life in a
$11.95 pb, 0-14-006690-X, Penguin. unique three-dimensional, interactive format. $29.95
° Beloved by Toni Morrison. $12.95 pb, cl, 0-609-60030-3, Crown.
0-452-28062-1, Plume. Defending the Spirit: A Black Life in America
° The Bluest Eye by Toni Morrison. $12.95 pb, by Randall Robinson is a searing memoir that paints a
0-452-27305-6, Plume. vivid and compelling picture of racism — not just in
the American South or in South Africa — but in such
sophisticated, seemingly enlightened communities as
Sisterspace and Books Harvard and Washington, DC. Robinson describes
Washington DC his visits to Caribbean and African trouble spots:
By Shakira Washington from the social strife of the Western Sahara to South
Africa, where he played a significant role in the dis-
Black History/Women’s History Months mantling of apartheid, to the restoration of
Wild Women in the Whirlwind: African- democracy in Haiti. Defending the Spirit is also an
American Culture and the Contemporary Literary intimate and moving portrait of a remarkable man
Volume 21 Number 5 49 January/February 1999
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
and the insight, compassion, and unswerving beliefs Unfortunately, African people in the U.S. still
that have made him a powerful leader, an impas- have some prevailing misconceptions about their
sioned advocate, and the voice of honesty, eloquence, education and education in general. In this reprinted
and commitment that he is today. $12.95 pb, edition of The Education of the Negro, originally
0-452-27968-2, February, Plume. printed in the 30s, Dr. Carter Godwin Woodson
Today, young Black men are more likely to be addressed the question of whether or not to teach
killed or sent to prison than to graduate from college. slaves to read and write — an issue throughout the
Beating the Odds: Raising Academically Successful entire slave period. The slave master knew that if
African American Males by Freeman A. Hrabowski slaves were taught to read and write, they might ulti-
III, Kenneth J. Maton, and Geoffrey L. Greif is an mately emerge as thinkers. These thinkers would
inspiring study that shows how young African inevitably question whether they should be slaves or
American men achieve academic success and what eventually try to become free. $9.95 pb, 1-881316-09-2,
parents can do to help. $25 cl, 0-195-10219-3, Oxford Red Sea Press.
University Press. The Mis-Education of the Negro by Dr. Carter
Frederick Douglass on Women’s Rights Godwin Woodson, another reprinted book from the
edited by Phillip S. Foner collects the speeches and 30s, shows that historically it does not matter who is
writings of Frederick Douglass on women’s rights. in power: those who have not learned to do for them-
While voting is primary among his themes, he also selves and have had to depend solely on others never
spoke on the need for women to participate in every obtain any more rights or privileges in the end than
phase of American society and in every aspect of they had in the beginning. $9.95 pb, 0-865431-71-X,
decision making. $13.95 pb, 0-306806-89-1, Da Capo African World Press.
Press. Thomas Jefferson and Sally Hemings: An
Black Wealth/White Wealth: A New Perspec- American Controversy by Annette Gordon-Reed
tive on Racial Inequality by Melvin L. Oliver and confronts the tale of the relationship between Presi-
Thomas M. Shapiro offers a powerful portrait of racial dent Thomas Jefferson and his slave Sally Hemings.
inequality based on an analysis of private wealth. The She explores this liaison neither to prove nor disap-
authors analyze wealth — total assets and debts prove it. Instead her goal is to weigh the evidence,
rather than income alone — to uncover deep and to evaluate the situation’s possibilities. In doing so,
persistent racial inequality in America, and they she provides a meticulous review of primary
show how public policies fail to redress the problem. documents and looks at the way in which the best
$16.99 pb, 0-415-91847-2, Routledge. historians can fall prey to unreasoned predisposi-
Her, a rowdy, irreverent novel by Cherry tion. $14.95 pb, 0-8139-1833-2, University Press of
Muhanji, explores a myriad of relationships between Virginia.
Black women — mother and daughter, mother and Roberts vs. Texaco: A True Story of Race and
daughter-in-law, lesbians, Black and “hiyellah” — Corporate America by Bari-Ellen Roberts and Jack E.
that together depict the struggle of Black women: White is the first major chronicle of the complexities
how we hold each other up and sometimes let each of racial discrimination within corporate America.
other down. And how our very lives teach each other Written in a lively, compelling, and gripping manner,
survival. $9.95 pb, 1-879960-02-8, Aunt Lute Books. this book establishes the agenda for the struggle for
In Another Place, Not Here by Dionne Brand equal rights in the coming century. $25 cl, 0-380-
tells of two contemporary Caribbean women who 97627-7, Avon.
find brief refuge in each other on an island in the Stolen Women: Reclaiming Our Sexuality,
midst of political uprising. Their tumultuous story Taking Back Our Lives by Gail Elizabeth Wyatt pres-
moves between city and island, between material and ents a well-researched and balanced perspective of
spiritual poverty, and between community and isola- the sexual experiences of African American women.
tion in a past and future time where the dream is It explodes the myths, examines our past, and sets the
always, again, deferred. $24 cl, 0-802116-22-1, path for our healing and our future survival. $14.95
Grove/ Atlantic. pb, 0-471-29717-8, John Wiley & Sons.
January/February 1999 50
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Jewel Diamond Taylor, the author of step-by-step method to working towards a healthy
Sisterfriends: Empowerment for Women and a Cel- body. Richardson discusses specific exercises and the
ebration of Sisterhood, understands the growing areas of the body that they affect, provides a list of
gap between the “haves” and “have-nots.” In her meals for a healthy diet, and gives her readers the
insightful book, she provides strategies for women in motivation that they need to get started and to stay fit.
areas of business development, spiritual understand- $16 pb, 0-67-153883-7, Pocket Books.
ing, goal setting, parenting, money management, and Talking Dollars and Making Sense: A Wealth
many other topics. With her books she hopes to help Building Guide for African Americans by Brooke
her readers move into the next century on the side of Stephens will show you how to strengthen your
the “haves.” $12.99 pb, 1-884743-06-4, Quiet Time financial position, step-by-step. Brooks offers a rare
Publishers. perspective on what African American history can
Successful Gems by Jewel Diamond Taylor pro- teach us about our financial freedom, and she pro-
vides powerful thoughts, affirmations, and vides a variety of strategies on subjects such as saving
quotations for daily leaps of faith towards your suc- money at higher returns, developing investment
cess. $10 pb, 1-884743-02-1, Quiet Time Publishers. strategies, setting goals, managing credit,
I'm Black and I'm Sober: The and many other topics. $14.95 pb,
Timeless Story of a Woman’s Journey 0-07-061389-3, McGraw-Hill.
Back to Sanity by Chaney Allen is the American Beach: A Saga of Race,
first autobiography written by a recov- Wealth, and Memory by Russ Rymer pro-
ering African American woman. Allen, a vides astonishing insights into the
minister's daughter, discusses her rela- |, meaning of American race relations. He
tionships with her mother, brothers, and |N- searches for answers through three unex-
children, the impact of discrimination, | B pected, overlapping, intensely personal
and the obstacles African Americans face „A stories. Ultimately he presents a vision of
as they become sober. $11.95 pb, 1-568380- a nation where the futures of Blacks and
71-2, Hazelden. whites are as linked as their histories,
In the words of Terri McFaddin, and where Black experience offers a key
“‘Beauty-full’ defines that which reflects to the struggle of every modern Ameri-
the glory and the gifts that emanate from can. $25 c], 0-06-017483-8, HarperCollins.
the inner chambers of the body, soul, and spirit.” Parable of the Sower by Octavia E.
In God Made Me Beauty-full: Building Self-Esteem Butler presents an ali-too-believable near future. It is
in African American Women McFaddin discusses the story of Lauren Olamina, an empath who is
how only 10% of our beauty is visible to the eye and crippled by the pain of others. One night violence
shows us strategies on how to open our spiritual eyes, explodes, and the walls of her neighborhood are
allowing us to see the beauty-full image and likeness smashed, annihilating her family and friends. Now
of God residing inside of each of us. $12 pb, she must face the world outside. Leading a tiny band
1-884743-05-6, Quiet Time Publishers. of desperate followers through a thousand miles of
In A Path to Healing: A Guide to Wellness for hell, she is a prophet bearing nothing but the prom-
Body, Mind, and Soul, Dr. Andrea D. Sullivan tells ises of new life and a new faith, Earthseed. $5.99 pb,
you everything you need to know about establishing 0-44-660197-7, Warner.
wellness in your life. In easy-to-understand language, Parable of the Talents by Octavia E. Butler reso-
she demystifies alternative medicine, clearly explain- nates with the usual Butlerian themes of alienation
ing the differences between homeopathic, holistic, and transcendence, violence and spirituality, slav-
and naturopathic approaches, and prescribes an over- ery and freedom, and separation and community to
all guide to maintaining health and keeping dis-ease astonishing effect in the shockingly familiar, broken
at bay. $23.95 cl, 0-385-48577-8, Doubleday. world of 2032. This story is a continuation of Parable
Exercise Your Right to a Healthy Body: Let's of the Sower and is told in the voice of Lauren
Get Real by Donna Richardson provides a Olamin’s daughter, Larkin, from whom she has been
Volume 21 Number 5 51 January/February 1999
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
separated for most of the girl’s life. Against a back- Press. Editor's note: This title is currently out-of-print and
drop of a war-torn continent and with a far-right hard to find. We're looking forward to the time when
religious crusader in the office of the U.S. presi- Barbara Smith finds a publisher to reprint it. If you, like
dency, this is a book about a society whose very Sisterspace, have the opportunity to obtain some of the
fabric has been torn asunder. $24.95 ci, out-of-print edtion, we suggest you do so!
1-888363-81-9, Seven Stories Press. Surviving the Silence by Charlotte
This Bridge Called My Back: Writings by Radi- Pierce-Baker tells the stories of Black women who
cal Women of Color edited by Cherríe Moraga and have been raped and who have felt that they had to
Gloria Anzaldua intends to reflect an uncompromis- remain silent in order to protect themselves and
ing definition of feminism by women of color in the their race. This book includes the author’s account
U.S. It contains prose, poetry, personal narrative, and of her own rape, stories of her family’s response,
analysis by African American, Asian American, and the voices of Black men who have supported
Latina, and Native American women. $11.95 pb, rape survivors, to weave a multi-dimensional
ASIN: 0930436105, Kitchen Table: Women of Color account of Black women’s survival. $23.95 cl,
0-393-04661-3, Norton.
Sister, Sell Your Dream: Steppin’ out with
Attitude by Anita Bunkley provides, through short
exercise and practical tips, a step-by-step program
that offers both practical advice and emotional
support for African American women who want to
put their talent, service, dream, or product in the spot-
light. Written for women who tend to undersell
themselves, this book is filled with quotes, inspira-
ATZ tional passages, stories about the author's life, and
testimonials from prominent women. $12.50 pb,
0-06-095288-1, HarperPerennial.
u DA Catherine Ponder, author of The Dynamic Laws
A CLES S of Prosperity, is considered one of America’s fore-
thoroughly comprehen- most inspirational writers. She has written more than
ATL L ZLE a M id llo ioz nen ai r b eso o k ofs, tw hh e i c Bh i b li en c l su ed re ie s s . u c Sh h e b ie ss t s ae l l mer is n i sa ts e r h e or f the
C u SECR nondenominational Unity faith — long known as
“the pioneer of positive thinking” — and has been
SSL A S L as described by some as “the Norman Vincent Peale
LN among lady ministers.” She has served in Unity
Churches since 1956 and heads a global ministry in
E e educTate. Palm Desert, California. $14.95 pb, 0-875165-51-6,
DeVorss Publications.
The River Where Blood is Born by Sadra
SEEE Jackson-Opoku takes us on a journey along the river
SRP II AYES of one family’s history, carving a course across two
To order call: 1-800-841-2665 centuries and three continents, from ancient Africa
www.tenspeed.com into today’s America. We come to understand the real
meaning of roots though the lives of Mother Africa's
many daughters: the captive Proud Mary, who has
been savagely punished for refusing to relinquish her
child to slavery; Earlene, who witnesses her father’s
murder at the hands of the Ku Klux Klan; Big
January/February 1999 52 Volume 21 Number 5
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Momma, a modern-day matriarch who can make a ° Eleanor Roosevelt, Volume I (1884-1933) by
woman of a girl; proud and sassy Cinnamon Brown, Blanche Wiesen Cook. $16.95 pb, 0-14-009460-1,
whose wild abandon hides a bitter loss; and smart, Penguin.
ambitious Alma, who is torn between the love of a ° Failure Is Impossible: Susan B. Anthony in
man and the song of her soul. $12.95 pb, 0-345- Her Own Words by Lynn Sherr. $15 pb,
42476-X, Ballantine. 0-812-92718-4, Times.
° Gift from the Sea by Anne Morrow Lindberg.
Wild Iris Books $8.95 pb, 0-679-73241-1, Vintage.
Guerrilla Girls’ Bedside Companion to the
Gainesville FL History of Western Art by the Guerrilla Girls.
The women of Wild Iris compiled the following list. $18.95 pb, 0-14-025997-X, Penguin.
° Medicine Women: A Pictorial History of
Black History/Women’s History Months Women Healers by Elizabeth Brooke. $20 pb,
° Black Looks by bell hooks. $15 pb, 0-89608- 0-835607-51-8, Quest.
4337, South End Press. ° Paris Was a Woman: Portraits from the Left
° Bone Black: Memories of Girlhood by Bank by Andrea Weiss. $28 cl, 0-044409-29-X,
bell hooks. $11.95 pb, 0-8050-5512-6, Rivers Oram Press.
Henry Holt. ° Witch in History by Diane Purkiss. $19.99 pb,
• Killing Rage: Ending Racism by bell hooks. 0-415-08762-7, Routledge.
$12.95 pb, 0-8050-5027-2, Henry Holt. ° Witchcraze: A New History of the European
° Wounds of Passion by bell hooks. $11.95 pb, Witch Hunts by Anne Llewellyn Barstow. $14
0-8050-5722-6, Henry Holt. pb, 0-06-251036-3, HarperSanFrancisco.
° But Some of Us Are Black edited by Gloria T. ° Witches, Midwives, Nurses by Barbara
Hull, Patricia Bell Scott, and Barbara Smith. Ehrenreich and Deidre English. $5.95 pb,
$15.95 pb, 0-912670-95-9, The Feminist Press. 0-912670-13-4, The Feminist Press.
° Cancer Journals by Audre Lorde. $7 pb,
1-879960-26-5, Aunt Lute Books. Women and Children First
° Divided Sisters: Bridging the Gap
between Black Women and White Women Chicago IL
by Midge Wilson. $23.95 cl, 0-385-47361-3, Jeanine Weekes and Ann Christophersen each
Anchor. compiled a list of must-carries for Women and
• does your mama know edited by Lisa Moore. Children First.
$19.95 pb, 0-9656659-0-9, RedBone Press.
° Love of a Woman by Maya Angelou. $12 pb, By Jeanine Weekes
0-553-38009-5, Bantam. Women of Hope: African Americans Who
Racism 101 by Nikki Giovanni and Virginia Made a Difference by Joyce Hansen. Luminous black
Fowler. $11 pb, 0-6881-4234-6, Quill. and white portraits and biographical profiles distin-
guish this wonderful collection honoring twelve
Women’s History Month women of color, from Ida B. Wells-Barnett to Mae C.
° American First Ladies: Their Lives and Their Jemison, whose visions continue to inspire us. Ages
Legacy edited by Lewis L. Gould. $25.95 pb, 9-12. $16.95 cl, 0-59-093973-4, Scholastic Press.
0-8153-2585-1, Garland. Affirmative Acts: Political Essays: From
° American Women’s Almanac: An Inspiring Rodney King to O.J. Simpson, from Bosnia to
and Irreverent Women’s History by Louise Connecticut to California by June Jordan. June Jor-
Bernikow. $16.95 pb, 0-425-15616-8, Berkley dan surveys the political landscape that shapes
Publishing Group. contemporary race and gender politics in the U.S. and
° Anonymous Was a Woman by Mirra Bank. around the world. With razor-sharp analysis and
$13.95 pb, 0-312-13430-4, St. Martin’s Press. unbridled passion, she voices the anger, the tears, and
53 January/February 1999
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
the hope necessary to drive us toward the world com- African Feminism: The Politics of Survival in
munity that we all deserve. $12.95 pb, 0-385-49225-1, Sub-Suharan Africa edited by Gwendoyn Mikell is
Anchor Books. somewhat formidable in its academic presentation:
The Feminist Memoir Project: Voices from the introduction is over 30 pages long and contains
Women’s Liberation edited by Rachel Blau DuPlessis 120 footnotes. That being said, the book contains
and Ann Snitow. This collection of essays provides ten important and relatively accessible essays that
unflinching reflection on the women’s civil rights support and develop the premise set forth in the
movement — where it’s been and where it needs to introduction: that because of cultural and historical
go. Thirty-two women writers recall their passion for differences with the West, feminism in Africa has
and involvement in the women’s movement with, at run a much different course and has a much differ-
once, sentimental and critical eyes. The history pro- ent agenda than in the U.S., Great Britain, and
vided here is exactly the kind of history that helps us Europe. $19.95 pb, 0-8122-1580-X, University of
see and make the future. A necessary addition to Pennsylvania Press.
every feminist library. $20 pb, 0-609-80384-0, Three The Joys of Motherhood by Buchi Emecheta is
Rivers Press. an old book just discovered by a new staff member.
At the Heart of Freedom: Feminism, Sex, and From the author of Second-Class Citizen and other
Equality by Drucilla Cornell. Drawing from and important books published in Heinemann’s African
challenging traditional ethical thought and psycho- Writers Series, this is an expertly told feminist narra-
analytic theory, Drucilla Cornell sketches a clear tive about a Nigerian woman who makes unflinching
picture of what is necessary for women to truly find sacrifces for her children during a time of tumult and
themselves free and equal. She has brought forward a difficulty. Emecheta wraps this story in courage and
complex and yet accessible analysis of the degree to startling humor and brings the reader close to its pro-
which Western political thought underestimates tagonist, Nnu Ego. Ego evokes our respect and
what women are obligated to provide our citizenry in admiration as she finds that the joys of motherhood
order to allow ourselves the freedom and equality lie deep- withinvits' heartaches. $10.95 pb,
that we deserve. Cornell has expanded the bound- 0-435-90972-X, Heinemann.
aries of feminist ethical thought and changed the
debate over political freedom. $14.95 pb, Women’s History Month
0-691-02896-6, Princeton University Press. Playing in a New League: The Women of the
American Basketball League’s First Season. As a
By Ann Christophersen Chicagoan and die-hard Bulls’ fan, I never thought I
could utter these words, but here goes: I don’t miss
Black History/Women’s History Months the NBA this fall. The reason? The first game of the
Remembering Slavery: African Americans ABL’s new Chicago team, the Condors, caused my
Talk About Their Personal Experiences of Slavery pulse rate to rise even higher than during those final
and Emancipation. This book-and-cassette set is the seconds of the big-game playoffs. Read about the
result of a collaboration between publisher Andre exciting beginnings of the ABL in Sara Gogol’s book.
Schiffrin of The New Press, scholars, the Library of $14.95 pb, 1-57028-199-8, Master Press.
Congress, and Smithsonian Productions. The book The central observation and the operative meta-
consists primarily of transcripts of interviews with phor for Michelle Citron’s exploration of her life,
former slaves conducted in the 30s and 40s as a project Home Movies and Other Necessary Fictions, is the
of the WPA. The written testimony about the experi- way home movies sometimes capture and represent
ence of slavery — and freedom — is complex, life as it was lived and other times create a version of it
disturbing, and inspiring. But it is listening to record- that is more romance than reality. Event, image,
ings of some of the interviews — hearing the words of memory, art, theory, and analysis all converge in this
people who experienced slavery tell of it in their own skillful, experimental, revealing memoir by a feminist
voices — that is uniquely powerful. $49.95, filmmaker, critic, and teacher. $19.95 pb,
1-5658-4425-4, The New Press. 0-8166-3262-6, Univeristy of Minnesota Press. O
January/February 1999 54
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
By Carol Seajay feminist community? Do they want to erode sales in
our community's bookstores? Are they willing, essen-
How you get customers to abandon their local tially, to compromise one part of their community to
community bookstore for an online multinational generate revenue for themselves? Are the online
corporation may be irrelevant to Bertelsmann. (Or “services” they're “providing” genuine, or are they
Barnes & Noble or Amazon.com.) But it does matter just part of a bill of goods — advertising hype — being
to the bookstores whose communities are being sold to them by the big online corporations?
raided for customers. And it should matter to those
— including the gay community’s leadership — who Gay Parenting emerged
are being used to encourage lesbians and gays to
take our bodies and souls (not to mention money) as the hero. They simply
out of our own community and give it to multi-
national corporations whose commitment to gays apologized and took the
and lesbians is only as deep as our pockets and as
time-limited as our options to shop elsewhere. b&n.com banner down, posting
HRC, Gay Parenting, AAUW, PFLAG, and a notice in its place saying,
PlanetOut have all put B&N banners on their Web sites
in recent months — presumably for remuneration — “We no longer promote
and perhaps out of a genuine desire to provide a ser-
vice. All, as far as we've been able to determine, were Barnes and Noble.”
approached by B&N and offered various packages,
most of which included cash up-front for signing the
agreement, significant monthly payments for posting These are the questions that feminist booksellers
the banner ($2000+), significant additional advertising put to HRC, AAUW, Gay Parenting, and GLAAD
revenue in the organization's publications ($20,000+ (who gave their annual “Fairness” Award to B&N
per hit) — and/or a percentage of sales (5-8 percent) last fall), in what has become yet another wave of
generated from the organization’s link to B&N. “educating our community” —in this case, educating
The question is, are these organizations willing to the people who work in national organizations (with
be used to take resources out of lesbian, gay, and glitzy Web sites) and who claim to be community
55 January/February 1999
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
leaders. People who, one would expect, should other ways to support their community bookstores.
already be very familiar with these issues, given the The HRC staff seemed ambivalent about the B&N
amount of publicity the financial crisis in gay and contract, and the staff member who had pushed for it
feminist bookstores has received in recent years. last spring no longer works at HRC.
More good news: HRC had refused to sign
This trend started last fall as HRC’s (the Human B&N’s boilerplate contract (which requires that no
Rights Campaign) fall newsletter hit the stores. It other bookstores be listed on the site) so HRC is free to
encouraged readers, supporters, and members to give equal promotion to feminist and gay stores, even
order their books from b&n.com via HRC’s Web site if they aren’t willing to break their contract with B&N
as a way to support the organization. by taking the banner down. The bad news? Despite
Feminist booksellers across the country went their brave action in pulling the ad — and with only a
through their roofs, packed up the handful of shopping days left
newsletters, and sent them back before Christmas — the HRC staff
with notes protesting, “You're ask- GLAAD promised that has not yet acted on any of the
ing meto distribute ‘your other possibilities and their site is
newsletter in my store, but in it they would never put a still, without qualification or edu-
you're telling my customers not to cation, encouraging visitors to
shop here, to take their money out shop at B&N.
of this community and this book-
store (which they depend on for, A notice similar to HRC’s
among many, many other services, appeared in the Gay Parenting
copies of your newsletter) and give newsletter. Booksellers also
it to B&N??!! I can't provide you noticed the b&n.com banner on
with that service. I cannot collude the AAUW (American Association
with you to destroy this commu- of University Women) site. Then
nity -and--this- community GLAAD (Gay and Lesbian Alliance
institution. Here are the copies of Against Defamation) announced
your newsletter.” The Feminist they were giving their “Fairness”
Bookstore Network, which had Award to B&N. And, of course,
rented HRC’s mailing list to distrib- there’s still the PFLAG site, where
ute copies. of the Feminist Parents and Friends of Lesbians
Bookstore Network Catalog, can- And Gays have been encouraging
celed its order, explaining, “There's their community to shop at B&N
no point in spending our money to since last spring — despite the
promote books to your members if mountain of letters from their
you're then going to tell those peo- members, as well as from feminist,
ple to order their books from a superchain instead of gay, lesbian, and other independent bookstores,
from their community bookstores. We'd do all the work decrying their promotion of the superchain at the
and B&N would get all the benefit!” expense of our community stores. Each story seemed
Booksellers then talked to local HRC staff, board to imply that community leaders were selling out to
members, and supporters. In discussion another the superchains, not just in one place, but all over the
problem emerged: HRC’s December newsletter, gay cyber-map.
which was almost at press, was scheduled to carry a But there was good news, too, and fruitful
full-page ad for B&N, encouraging HRC members to discussion.
order books online through the HRC/B&N link. With Gay Parenting emerged as the hero. They simply
only a few days to make the decision, the HRC staff apologized and took the b&n.com banner down,
did the right thing and pulled the ad — and promised posting a notice in its place saying, “We no longer
to reexamine their involvement with B&N and find promote Barnes and Noble.”
January/February 1999 56 Volume 21 Number 5
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
The GLAAD staff acknowledged that they and online monoliths threaten one of the oldest and
have an obligation to support their community’s most essential underpinnings of the gay community:
independent bookstores, even while maintaining its bookstores. They don’t yet understand the impact
that B&N’s domestic-partner benefits program and of their participation in b&n.com’s publicity machine.
its requirement that all stores have gay sections Second, we're facing a failure in either leadership
(however scanty) merited an award (despite or principles. “Everyone else is doing it” is not a politi-
B&N’s aggressive competition against gay and cal analysis. These leadership organizations could take
feminist bookstores and the ABA’s lawsuit charg- a page from the Berkeley Women’s Music Collective of
ing that the superstore engages in grossly unfair two decades ago, when Nancy Vogl sang, “No thanks
and illegal business practices intended to destroy mister/I don’t want your ride/I’ve been that route
other bookstores). GLAAD promised that they before. /This time around, you know, I got me some
would never put a superstore banner on their site pride/and I won't give in no more./No, I won't give in
and, after self-evaluation, concluded that they no more.”
have been remiss in their obligation to recognize And I've come to suspect that our community
and support their community bookstores. GLAAD leaders are being sold a faulty bill of goods. Almost
is developing a program to increase community every organization has responded to FBN’s queries
bookstores’ visibility on their highly trafficked with “But we’re providing a service to the commu-
Web site. nity — to isolated rural gays who don’t have access to
AAUW, which has never been at the center of a bookstore.” I've heard that line so often, it’s begin-
gay, lesbian, or feminist communities, was pleased to ning to sound like an urban myth. Or is it, perhaps, a
discover the range of feminist stores with active Web very emotional (and therefore effective) part of
sites and is looking for a way to tie their book group
program (which is focused on educating members
about diversity issues through reading) to a feminist I think we really have to start educating
bookstore site and/or increasing visibility of online people. Last week I spent a great deal of time
feminist bookstores to their members. talking to women’s studies students who were
PFLAG, which generally sees supporting gay working on class projects and wanted to know
children and their community as a primary mission, about the store closing.... (Editor's note:
h d seea ls s l p e ric t so e n as p cis rlet oae ssn s t l f ty r h o e mm ca oi gn uat nya t,i rn ye ld .es b a i a np ,r o a- nc dh a i fn e m st inan isc te , book- bW ste oo c rom em .a )n e s T l ai hnn e e y o r n ae l lic lne n e w t l aay nn td ec d lo m s te a oid l - o ti r at lds k e rs t a o bor one ulf tyr o fn b rot e o e k dt -o om of
speech for Canadian feminist bookstores. Their
The votes aren't all in yet: several of these orga- primary concern? Canadian Customs!
nizations are still deciding how they're going to When I told these students that their big
wre as vp eo n td h o — se b Bu &t N i n b a nt nh ee r sm ae la ln t dim aye ,, et vh ee ry y c do an yt .i n Cu le e a rto ly, p cor lo lb ecle tm iv e i s j a wg so i n hg i t t o t h eb e g rw oi ut nh d . C h Ta hp et ye 'r ds , n t eh vee rir
educational work needs to continue — not just with even thought of this. Never thought of the
s wtt i hh t hee e o s s e o wt n g h l air na nto te u p a fgs r e, ie m a n b il t niu sn it . sk t e ( w d N bi ot otth o o k t sa oo tl l r o r m w ep seo r nm o t tm i oe o n o n t’ ss i t , n o a g l cl l k e s s o b u tfi p ha n e etr i, h r c eha an b i a od n u o s t k g h soa o ,y r rs g Sd a /raa y e ln /n/g b'le t /er s t b s a it a sto en i s c f ts ia im e ou d na t l shl o w r op is ftr , h e s Ce s t hte hcs a., pe t Tu ew rhn soei ,mv y e ' el br l ns u i ’ tst a dy m ts htp i u etr d e i os et ts she h e s ey a, rn d shoe
b “Out r d ew rh o fs re o mpr e Ass m ar ze ol nea .cse os m .o ”r — em aa nil d l i hs at vin engs 't a ad v cis lue, e n ine dv ee pr e n d dr eo np ts s. ,. . tW hah te n w it llh e bre e a tr he e i rn o c h m oio cr ee : a big,
why this isn't in their long-term self-interest.) conven Wie hn yt s at ro er ne ' t w ti hth ei r a p v re or fy es s l oi rm s i t te ed l l inco gl l e tc hti eo mn.
about this?
sions. S Fev ire sr ta l o fth e am ll,e s o uh ra v e c o mem me ur ng ie td y i ln e a dt eh re ss e ( sd tii ls lc )u s d- on’t Womansline Books /— LS oh na dr oo nn , C Oo nl tli an rg iowood
fully understand how thoroughly the superchains
57
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
B&N’s sales pitch? Again and again, as I talk with And then there’s the “poor, frightened, closeted
people in these organizations, I've been asked to person.” What’s wrong in this picture? This scenario is
consider the plight of the poor, rural gay person who somehow predicated on the assumption that all femi-
doesn’t have access to books and needs this connec- nist and gay bookstores’ mailing labels read “Dirty
tion to b&n.com (or Amazon.com) to get books. I Queer Bookstore” and that a this poor person is going
dutifully conjure up a 1910-ish image of some poor, to be outed simply by ordering a book from a feminist
isolated gay person living in a shack on a windblown or gay store. As if all the neighbors somehow know
Dakota prairie. The pony express gallops up just as that a package that says “Amazon.com” on the return
s/he is turning the shotgun to her/his own head... address and is postmarked “Washington” is A-OK but
It’s heart-wrenching, and we all know that story know that a package that says “Amazon” on the mail-
well. Feminist, gay, and lesbian ing label but is postmarked
bookstores are about ending that “Minnesota” will be a lesbian
kind of isolation. bookstore. I think of such racy
But look again: Something names as New Words, Brigit’s, In
doesn’t quite hold up in this Other Words, Antigone, Wild Iris,
picture. It’s the pony express Charis, Common Language, Sweet
rider. It’s the delivery system. It’s Violets, A Different Light, Glad
the implication that the Big Chain Day, and the like. (New Words?
Store can, somehow, deliver Glad Day? Mercy! They sound
books to rural areas and feminist more like Christian bookstores
and gay stores can’t. But the Big than anything else!) This scenario
Chain uses exactly the same deliv- ignores the fact that feminist and
ery systems that all the rest of us gay bookstores have been shipping
use: UPS, RPS, Fed Ex and, occa- books in the proverbial “plain
sionally, the U.S. Postal Service. brown wrapper” since before these
(Reality check: Book delivery is chains were established. This
not a unique service that only scenario asks you to believe that
b&n.com can provide.) our stores are less respectful of
Furthermore, b&n.com (and closeted people or PFLAG folk
Amazon.com) order their books from exactly the same than B&N is. Any a priori assumption that only super-
places that gay, lesbian, and feminist bookstores do. chain bookstores can provide appropriate services to
There’s nothing they can order that our stores can’t gay, lesbian, bisexual, and transgender people (and
order. their parents and friends) needs serious examination.
Look again: This “poor, rural, isolated gay” is Upon reconsideration, these scenarios — the
getting information from X, Y, or Z organization’s poor, isolated, rural gay (on the Internet) who needs
Web site. S/he has a computer, a modem, and is b&n.com to get books, and the poor, closeted gay who
cruising the World Wide Web. If “isolated gays” would be outed by ordering a book from anyone other
can find X, Y, or Z's Web site, they can certainly than b&n.com — look more like a homophobic fear
follow a link to a feminist or gay bookstore’s site campaign pitched (and sold) to gay organizations
and find a lot more books of interest much more than anything else.
quickly than they'll find books at a Big Chain site. The offers are tempting — and they come
(And UPS will be just as happy to deliver them.) attached to tempting sums of money. They come with
And they’re likely to encounter some real people at emotional sales pitches. But what are the real costs?
the community store site, rather than just auto- What will happen to gay, lesbian, bisexual,
mated boilerplate emails confirming their orders. transgender, and feminist communities if all of our
I'm sorry, I just can’t see that steering “isolated” organizations buy into the multinational corporate
gays to a chain store and away from their commu- push to put book distribution into the hands of a few
nity is doing them a service. corporate multinationals? Who does this serve? O
January/February 1999 58
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
By Carol Seajay would virtually eliminate small stores, stores that
don’t have a full-time manager (so the owner can
Toward a “Lean, Mean, and Fast-Moving” leave several times a year to attend Board meetings),
ABA Board and stores that are not independently wealthy or oth-
As part of their strategic planning process and erwise subsidized. It also requires that new Board
the revamping of the organization, the ABA Board members come in at the “inner circle” level, rather
and the Bylaws Committee are asking members to than being able to “learn their way up” to the skill
approve a radical new structure for the ABA Board. level necessary to manage the finances of an organiza-
Members will vote on the new bylaws at the Annual tion ABA’s size. There is a tendency, in any such
Membership meeting in Los Angeles this May. The situation, for an organization's priorities to shift
proposal calls for a nine-member Board to replace the toward the needs of its most visible constituencies,
current twenty-person Board, a change from four offi- letting the needs of the less strategically placed con-
cers to two, and the creation of two advisory councils. stituencies slide. One of the strengths of the existing
The goal is to create a “lean, mean, and fast-moving structure is that, no matter how much of the actual
Board” that can respond quickly to opportunities, management is done in the Executive and Finance
industry changes, and other situations as needed — a Committees, these committees still have to go to the
goal that is certainly appropriate for an organization mix of booksellers comprising the rest of the Board,
that is involved in a major lawsuit, that is negotiating explain what they’re doing, and get their approval.
cyberspace deals to create a significant Internet sales It’s that old system of checks and balances. The pro-
presence for its members, and that is frequently need- posed advisory councils (one comprised of
ing to “wheel and deal” in its members’ interest in a booksellers and the other of people from throughout
rapidly changing business environment. We need an the industry) are designed to provide input, but aren’t
aggressively proactive ABA Board and the Board, in designed to provide a balance of power. Accountabil-
turn, needs a structure that can facilitate its success. ity, instead, would be the responsibility of an Audit
That said, the proposed system offers some seri- Committee, which would be appointed by the Board,
ous challenges. rather than elected by the membership.
Members defeated a similar proposal several
years ago that seemed to be designed to shift power
away from the elected Board and into the hands of
senior ABA staff. This proposal (and the environment
In addition to the obvious consolidation of in which it is proposed) has quite a different feel.
power, the structure of this Board — in which all What we have now is a staff, management, and Board
members would be required to take on all of the that are actively pursuing every avenue possible to
responsibilities of both the Executive Committee and support independent bookstores. Unlike the first pro-
the Finance Committee — means that only booksell- posal, this one preserves some larger-picture
ers who already have an extremely high level of safeguards: 1. Members can, in any election, elect an
expertise in these areas could serve on the Board. That alternate slate of officers and Board members by
59 January/February 1999
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
write-in. 2. Bookstore members may also be nomi- museum stores, Internet booksellers, college stores,
nated (and their names added to the ballot) via mail-order bookstores, etc. — and that independents
petitions carrying the signatures of two percent of the are served by having a larger community of
membership (approximately 70 people at current booksellers.
membership levels) as long as the signatures come Feminist Bookstore News’ position? First of all, we
from at least five different states and no more than 50 think that unsigned editorials and position state-
percent come from one state. That’s a challenge, but it ments are worse than useless. When ABA members
is feasible. Easier, perhaps, for nationally based con- raise issues, they deserve a signed response. If the
stituencies such as African American booksellers, response is personal opinion, it needs to be clear
children’s booksellers, or feminist booksellers, than whose opinion it is. If the response refers to ABA pol-
for booksellers whose primary networks are based in icy, the source for that policy needs to be cited.
one state. Unsigned, unidentified responses close off dialogue
The odds are that the smaller Board will set and present the many people who make up ABA and
some priorities and policies that aren't going to be in its complex and important structures as an unap-
the interests of the smallest stores. But then again, proachable, uninterested monolith, rather than
given the commitment and passion at hand, the pro- encouraging open dialogue, which is represented in
posed Board will undoubtedly also implement ABA's strategic planning process.
programs and take advantage of opportunities that That aside, it seems to FBN that there are two
would have been impossible under the old structure deeper issues here. Does having a broader-based
— some of which may go a long way toward keeping membership prevent ABA from acting in the interests
independent booksellers, small and large, on the of its core membership in any way? If not, then
map. It seems worth the risk. As one bookseller put it, “ABA's” points probably outweigh the pleasure of
“Five years from now, if we don’t like what they’re having the ABA solidly named as an independents’
doing, we can always run alternate slates and take it organization. But if so, those areas need to be named
back. If we're here. And if we don’t survive, it won’t and addressed in the discussion.
matter one whit.” Beneath the question of name, however, there
seems to be an even more important question of activ-
ity and priority. In the opinion piece in Bookselling This
Week that evoked the unsigned response, David
Mosley (Bookshelf Stores in Northern California)
A Rose Is a Rose Is an Independent? states that, “many average consumers fail to recognize
The other controversial issue that’s likely to come independent bookstores as a national presence or
up during the discussions of the proposed bylaws is cohesive group.” While a name change might help to
the question of amending ABA’s name to specify resolve that problem, a more direct approach would
independent booksellers. be a massive public education and branding program.
The’ “ABA” (inan unsigned editorial in Feminist booksellers, several years ago — before
Bookselling This Week) argues that in this day and age, “branding” was even a buzz word — sponsored a
“perception (rather than possession) is nine-tenths of resolution that ABA should engage in the promotion
the law” — and that many of its missions, including of independent bookstores and public education
its ability to advocate for independent booksellers, regarding our issues vis-à-vis the chains. The Annual
would be weakened if the public (Congress, the court Meeting passed the resolution, nearly unanimously,
system, publishers, et al.) perceived ABA (AIBA?) as and the organization responded by developing
advocating only for a minority segment of booksell- Independent Bookstore Week — a worthy program,
ers, rather than representing the interests of all (good, but clearly inadequate to resolve the problem.
American) booksellers. Further, “ABA” argues that
while its core membership is comprised of independ- Setting up a Web Site?
ent bookstores, ABA also provides services to a BookWare, a free software package for develop-
variety of other kinds of booksellers, including ing online bookstores, has been getting some great
January/February 1999 60
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
raves on the Northern California Independent Book- Cleansing the Fatherland: Nazi Medicine and Racial
sellers Association e-list. It offers shopping cart Hygiene and The German Euthanasia Program on his
capability, dynamic linking and searching, faster Web site). He is anti-choice and woman-hating. Is this
searches, and more user options. For more informa- the standard: “If it affects white gay men, we'll take
tion — or to download a copy — go to (http:// offense and protest it, but they’re the only people we
www.glasscat.com/bookstores). care about?” Is it OK in “our community” to be
woman-hating or racist, as long as (white) gay men
S7 aren't abused? Do women need to go back to political
separatism to get women’s issues and minority rights
acknowledged?
Amazon.com and “Free Speech” Amazon.com needs to do better than this — and
Amazon.com, after initially shouting about “free so do the educated, “conscious” denizens of the
speech,” and their “need to make all of the books in Internet. Can gays with computers spell a-l-l-i-e-s? or
our catalog available” finally took a look at their c-0-a-l-i-t-i-o-n? I’ve got news, guys: A culture that
“Associate” Bob Enyart’s Web site. A small mountain tolerates racism, anti-Semitism, or woman-hating
of email and letters protesting and quoting Enyart’s will also be virulently anti-gay. The only society that
virulent and violence-invoking anti-gay rhetoric and a will be safe for gay men is one that successfully elimi-
lot of bad press on the e-lists and news groups finally nates “difference” as a basis for violence and
got through to Amazon.com, which suddenly discrimination. If you can't muster the compassion to
announced that they were discontinuing their associa- have a politic wider than your own self-interest, then
tion with Enyart. (Both Amazon.com and fight for the safety of women, Jews, and ethnic and
barnesandnoble.com have “Associate” or “Affiliate” racial minorities because it is in your own
programs, through which they encourage other Web self-interest.
sites to link to their sites for “book fulfillment services” N
cin as h e x pch ayan mg ee n tf so , r a da v ep re tr isc ie nn gt ,a g oe r o f ot hb eo ro k p as ya mles e, n t m s.)onthly SA u s
It’s hard to know which is more disgusting:
Amazon.com's utter lack of standards for its business And on the Corporate Front
partners, its apparent willingness to distribute hate Barnes & Noble may be trying to buy Ingram, but
literature, or its willingness to do nothing unless cus- Borders has already signed on Phil Pfeffer, who is
tomers monitor and critique its actions. Guess that’s a credited with moving Ingram from a sleepy little
working definition of the lovely phrase “corporate wholesaler to its near-monopoly position as the pri-
responsibility” that we hear bandied about so often mary book wholesaler in the U.S., as its new CEO.
these days. Pfeffer spent the years between Ingram and Borders
I'm glad that the anti-gay material sparked a at pre-Berlelsmann Random House.
letter-writing campaign. Anti-gay material should. I guess the “good” news is that Borders’ profit-
And companies should respond — a lot more effi- ability slid a bit last fall: Even though it opened a
ciently and effectively than Amazon.com did. (It record 25 stores during the quarter ending October 25
seems not to have any program in place for dis- (for a total of 238 stores), it reported a loss of $800,000
associating itself from undesirable business part- for the quarter. The same quarter the year before
ners: the links from Enyart’s site to Amazon.com showed a $400,000 profit. Comparable store sales
were still up as of this writing.) were up 3.6%, though, and total sales showed a 17%
But I come away from this political “victory” increase over the same quarter last year. Meanwhile
with a very bad taste in my mouth. Why was the focus Borders-owned Waldenbooks reported a 3.5%
of these protests only Enyart’s homophobia? Why did decline in sales from the previous year, the closure of
Amazon.com respond to complaints of his homo- 31 stores (leaving 896 stores in operation), and a
phobia but not the rest of his views? Enyart is also decline in comparable store sales of 1.5%. Nice to
virulently anti-Semitic (he promotes books like See Commentary, page 19.
61 January/February 1999
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
By Teri Mae Rutledge The results will be announced in June as part of
National Lesbian and Gay Book Month.
Down There Press has gone back to press with Isabel Allende is the recent recipient of two
four books. Herotica: A Collection of Women’s Erotic Fic- awards. First, the Dorothy and Lillian Gish Prize is
tion edited by Susie Bright has a new afterward in given to persons making significant contributions to
which Bright describes the trials and tribulations the arts. Second, she was awarded the Sara Lee
faced in putting together this groundbreaking book at Frontrunner Award, which recognizes significant
a time when women’s erotica was virtually unknown. women. Toni Morrison nominated Allende for the
The first edition has 11,000 copies in print; the Frontrunner award. Recipients of the Frontrunner
Herotica series boasts a total of 80,000 books in print. award are asked to name a protégé for special recog-
The Good Vibrations Guide: The G-Spot by Cathy Winks nition, and Allende named Lan Cao, author of
is going back to press for a second printing, bringing Monkey Bridge.
its in-print total to 10,500 copies. Only three months The National Book Awards ceremony was held
after its release date, the revised, third edition of Anal this fall. Alice McDermott’s Charming Billy (FSG) won
Pleasure and Health by Jack Morin, Ph.D., is going back the NBA for fiction. A list of nominees follows:
to press for a total of 13,000 copies in print. The com- Kaaterskill Falls by Allegra Goodman (The Dial Press),
bined in-print total for all editions is 85,000. Joani The Healing by Gayl Jones (Beacon Press), Damascus
Blank’s A Kid's First Book about Sex is on its way back Gate by Robert Stone (Houghton Mifflin), and A Man
to the printer for the seventh time, bringing the total in Full by Tom Wolfe (FSG). Edward Ball won the
number of books in print to 25,000. nonfiction award for Slaves in the Family (FSG). Other
nominees were Shakespeare: The Invention of the Human
by Harold Bloom (Riverhead/Penguin), There Once
Awards Was a World: A 900 Year Chronicle of the Shtetl of
Eishyshok by Yaffa Eliach (Little, Brown), A Slant of
The Publishing Triangle has announced several Sun: One Child's Courage by Beth Kephart (Norton),
awards for gay literature. Elena Dykewoman’s novel and All On Fire: William Lloyd Garrison and the Aboli-
Beyond the Pale was awarded the Ferro Grumley fiction tion of American Slavery by Henry Mayer (St. Martin’s
award. Colm Toibin was the gay fiction winner for The Press). This Time: New and Selected Poems by Gerald
Story of the Night. David Sedaris won the Randy Shilts Stern (W.W. Norton) won the award for poetry. Other
Award for nonfiction for his bestselling book Naked. nominees were The Art of the Lathe by B.H. Fairchild
Margot Peters was given the Judy Grahn Award for her (Alice James Books), The Little Space: Poems Selected
biography of lesbian writer, May Sarton. Playwright and New, 1968-1998 by Alicia Suskin Ostriker (Uni-
Chay Yew was on hand to receive the Robert Chesley versity of Pittsburgh), Carnival Evening: New and
award, and M.E. Kerr was presented with the Bill Selected Poems 1968-1998 by Linda Pastan (W.W.
Whitehead Award for Lifetime Achievement. Norton), and From the Devotions by Carl Phillips
Publishing Triangle chair Charles Flowers also (Graywolf). Holes by Louis Sachar (Frances Foster /
announced that the organization is creating an edito- FSG) won the young people’s literature award. Other
rial board of scholars, critics, and writers to determine nominees were The Secret Life of Amanda K. Woods by
the 100 most influential gay male and lesbian novels. See Back to Press, page 128.
January/February 1999 62
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
at a greatly reduced fee to publicize the store.
“They're two nice Christian guys, and one of them
New Store has a brother who's gay.” said Julia. They helped to
Angie’s Books Etc. of Akron, Ohio, opened its get the store a feature in the local paper, and they're
doors last July. Co-owners Julia Hines and Barbara setting up a Web site for the store as well. I, for one,
Greve see the opening of the store as an act of divine am happy to know that a lesbian-owned bookstore is
intervention. “We were having breakfast at Highland up and running in my hometown! Angie’s Books Etc.,
Square, when we noticed this vacant space. I guess it 8161⁄2 W. Market St., Akron OH 44303; 330-374-0444.
had been vacant for a year and we hadn’t noticed it. Sa
But we looked at it and started making plans...” At AN
around the same time, Barbara's grandmother gave E
Barbara the balance of an account that she'd been sav-
ing since Barbara was a girl. “We thought that God Books
was trying to tell us something,” said Julia. And, Two Kitchen Table: Women of Color Press books
indeed, one of their goals is to be “a sort of ministry.” are being brought back into print by Rutgers Univer-
So Julia has retired from her job as a veterinary techni- sity Press. Two of Mitsuye Yamada’s poetry
cian, and the couple hopes that Barbara will be able to collections, Camp Notes and Other Poems and Desert
leave her job soon, too. Angie’s stocks bestselling Run: Poems and Stories, are published in one volume:
books, spirituality books, and books for the special Camp Notes and Other Writings. Shameless Hussy
needs of her clientele — heterosexual families, gay Press originally published Camp Notes in 1976, and
men and lesbians, punk rockers, you name it. Not sur- Kitchen Table brought it back into print in 1992.
prisingly, Julia has found that their edge in the Kitchen Table was the original publisher of Desert
bookselling business is special orders. “There is a Bor- Run a decade ago. ($15 pb, 0-8135-2606-X.) Rutgers is
ders two miles up the road, but they don’t like to call also republishing Hisaye Yamamoto’s Seventeen
publishers and set up accounts. And they will take Syllables and Other Stories. This award-winning collec-
two to six weeks to fill an order when we can do it in tion was originally published by Kitchen Table in
five days. Some Borders employees are referring their 1988. ($14 pb, 0-8135-2607-8.)
customers to us.” The store also stocks cards, pride Two major works by Betty Friedan are being
items, candles, and special items like wind chimes brought back into print by Harvard University Press.
from Bali, and emphasizes artwork and crafts by local “It Changed My Life:” Writings on the Women’s Move-
artists. (They also hang artwork in the store.) Julia ment was originally published by Random House in
says that the gifts are what's keeping the store in busi- 1976. The new edition has a new introduction from
ness. The store is located in busy Highland Square Friedan. ($15.95 pb, 0-674-46885-6.) The Second Stage
and receives a lot of foot traffic. It is situated between was Friedan’s second major theoretical work, pub-
two bars — “that’s a downside,” said Julia — but two lished after The Feminine Mystique. Friedan has also
doors down from Angel Falls, a gay-owned coffee written a new introduction for The Second Stage.
shop. The store recently hired two marketing agents ($15.95 pb, 0-674-79655-1.)
63 January/February 1999
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Koen Book Distributors, luc.
10 Twosome Drive, Box 600 7B9o00o k opfepoe ople
Moorestown, NJ 08057 Oakland, CA 94621
tel: 800-257-8481 tel: 800-999-4650
fax: 800-225-3840 fax: 510-632-1281
Koen features computerized inventory updates, Bookpeople is an employee-owned and operated
state-of-the-art electronic ordering, and specialists in independent wholesaler with over 30,000 titles from
independent presses, juvenile titles, “alternative” titles, over 2,000 independent and trade presses. We offer
gay/lesbian interest and other subject categories. Huge competitive discounts up to 45%; free freight on
inventory, industry-leading fill rates, and generous free qualifying orders; early payment discounts; fast,
freight area. www.koen.com. accurate shipping; and friendly, knowledgeable
customer service reps. custserv@bponline.com;
The Bookmen, luc. www.bponline.com.
525 North Third St.
Minneapolis, MN 55401 Small Press Distrilution
ft 3 r pFe a 6 e hol x g c o: : iu n y o s8 ene8 0 ,a 0 a 0 r o l 0 ,- n- f- 3 o a 2 2 l xn6 d q8 ,a6 u- t- 8 a ib5 ml4 o6 o i n1 t ao31 y a ik6 ll s( oawB e n rrhO dv oO eil c lK e i ee nsM c.a t tl E e re C rN r oa n n) r a il r t co i i ac e o la s lnt ya e .5 ld 0 , p0i un 0 b 0 l iM st hi in t el rn e se s .a p f Oo rl ri o ds m. er l boc yal, t f SB l1 ie ma3 e tl x4 r e: a : r1 k l a l8e 5 r0l S 1e y0 Pe y 0- rv - , 8 ee b5 6 sn 2 o9 sCt 4 o -Ah - k7 D0 5 8 i 5S s9 w53 tt 4 2 r h. 7 i o1 b l0 u est aio len r , i s w it th he 9n ,5at 0i 0o n t’s i t lo esn l y f r oe mxc l u msi ov re ely than
LPC Gr 1 oup 5 o0 n0 t o hf e t wh ee b m ato s t S P i Dn Bn oo ov ka st .i ov re g ; p r ores ds ee rs s @ a sr po du bn od o. k sC .oh re gc .k us out
1436 W. Randolph St.
Chicago, IL 60607 Partuers
tel: 800-626-4330 or 800-243-0138
fax: 800-334-3892 Book Distrikuting, luc.
LPC Group is the preeminent distributor of independent Partners/West Partners/East
sp pr ee cs is ae ls i. z e W ine c bu or or ke sn t oly n r pe op pr ue ls ae rn t c u 1 lt0 u0 r ep , u b gl ei nsh de er rs s a tn udd ies, 1S90t1e .R a yCmo n dH Aovlet. ,S W M 23I2 5 4Ja8rc8o 4 D2r.
g na oy v e la sn d a n dle s b pi oa ln it i cs at lu d si ce is e, n cf ei .c t wio wn w a .cn od o l bli ot oe kr sa .t cu or me, . graphic tR ele : n 8t 0o 0-n 5, 6 3 -W 238A 5 98055 tel: 800-336 f- a3 x:1 3 57 17-694-0617
fax: 425-204-1448
the distributors Call Partners First! General wholesaler stocking 30,000 +
7 S0 o2 u t hS . BM enic dh , ig Ia Nn 46601 t Oi rt dle es r s i n r e W ceia vsh edin g bt yo n 3 a n pd .m .4 0 s,0 h0 ip0 + s at mit ele s d ai yn . M Ni oc h pig ea rn . title
tel: 800-348-5200 minimums required to reach discount. Compatible with
TF iu tl ll e b s ae sr ev i ic ne c luw dh eo sl e s sa el le er ct es de r v fi rn og n t lb iso to k as nto dr e bs e sn ta st ei lo len rw s i d fe r. om a 4l 2l % c o dm isp cu oute nr t o fr od re r j u s sy t s t 2e 5m s c. o nE fl ie rc mtr eo dn i c b o oo krd s e r (os r r e 4c 3e %iv e for
t spr hra ied pse ps i np t giu t b le oli s ns h fi on r rog dm e rh s o 1 u , rs 5e e0s c0 e i a vpn eud db l is bst h er feo orn rsg . e Os 2e f l fe pec .rt m io .sn a m o ef ds am yaller fh a oi g r$h 7 e 5 qr u ar lv e ifto al yu i ilm n goe r d oc e ru r ds t e o rfm so .re r s 4) 0. % P h do in sce o/ uf nax t. o Fr rd ee er s f rr ee iq gu hi tr e a vju ais lt able
January/February 1999 64 Volume 21 Number 5
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsCousortium Book Sales & Publishers Group West
Distrikutiou 1700 Fourth St.
Berkeley, CA 94710
1045 Westgate Dr., Ste. 90 tel: 800-788-3123
St. Paul, MN 55114 fax: 510-528-3444
t fe al x: : 8 60 50 1- -2 28 23 1- -3 05 17 22 4 E Nl oe rc tt hro n Aic m eo rr id cae ’r si n lg a: r g 8 e0 st0 - 7 d8 i8 s- t3 r1 ib2 u2 t oS rA N of 2 0 in2 d8 e5 p2 e2 ndent
a cC Sb upo o srn tu is onto m gr t w e i rwu o smm e . e C and r h i e os f ot r sr oo ei fb m f u te t er e nt is nh ge oa r b a w e msi btd oa e c r i k e n lv d i a s ber t ap i ce e kst n py ld ie se c tno i atf l b opt t ori o kt e l s se ass le fls r.b ooy mfT, h oif os uo vrr e , r r a en tad il W Sp P euu o abb lr ll lii dss Phh r ie eLnr sigs sb, ,, r a r CrGe y lr ep ,o ir sv e We s Pe in rP ld et r si cen sas ,g ts , H C p uA au nntb tl yl a ei ons rnh t e i Hc r P s o r uM e ss so eu sn ,,c th h aN n l eya dws P o A r H vv e eae s rrsr b,y i nN ge ew r,
65 great independent publishers and receive a 50% 120 more. www.pgw.com.
discount and free freight. Call cutomer service for details.
Bookazíne Koen Pacific Distributors
75 Hook Road 18249 Olympia Ave. S.
tB ea ly : o 8n 0n 0e -, 2 2N 1-J 8 1 10 27002 T teu lk : w 8i 0la 0, - 9 9W 5A -4 8 9 48 0188
fax: 201-339-7778 fax: 800-873-8654
Bookazine is a full service distributor offering an inventory Inventory of 20,000 titles including best-sellers,
of 100,000 titles and access to 1.2 million titles with full contemporary lit and alternative lifestyles. Electronic
e d pl i re v ec i st s sr i eoo snn s i a c n i dno cr ld cu he dr ie li dn rg le e s n ba ’sn ia d n b o i a on n kt d se . r f g wa ac wye w ic .n bap t oea orb kei al s zi tt i, ny e. i .n c S odp mee p ;c ei nal diz ee nd t o g inr o fd o ode rr m i sn e ag n t, is o e ns a om f pe a- chd ka u ey m t os arh n. i d p Cp a fi ln rl g e e, L i nr ne d eg wai o s lon era t l t eB rf o .r ne ne i e f r fe oi rg h t a n and a
inquire@bookazine.com.
New Leaf Distributing Co.
Alamo Square Distributors 401 Thornton Rd.
PO. Box 14543 Lithia Springs, GA 30122
San Francisco, CA 94114 tel: 800-326-2665
tel: 415-863-7410 Fax: 800-326-1066
fax: 415-863-7456 New Leaf of Atlanta, Georgia, an employee-owned
Alamo Square Distributors is the only wholesaler selling company founded in 1975, is the world’s largest
exclusively lesbian, gay and sexual alternative books. wholesaler of metaphysical and holistic health books,
Look to us for small press, erotica, hard-to-find titles and music, videos and sidelines. www.newleaf-dist.com;
Onlywomen Press of London. alamosqdist@earthlink.net. newleaf@newleaf-dist.com.
& Distributors 4
Volume 21 Number 5
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Odd Girls Press has indefinitely postponed the Media Marketing Research, Miami Books, Small
publication of Undelete by Irene Stuber, featured in Changes, and Ubiquity. ISSN: 1521-5873.
the FB-Net Catalog. However, First Resort by Nanci
Little, last projected to appear sometime 1999, has Publishers Move
been available since December 1998. Books in Print Iris Editions (An Intricate Weave: Women Write
has apparently classified First Resort as a women’s about Girls and Girlhood) has moved. Iris Editions, 4130
studies textbook. Rest assured, it is still a novel, and La Jolla Village Dr. Ste. 10778, La Jolla CA 92037;
BIP has received notice of the error. 877-254-0444, fax 619-509-4855.
Odd Girls has new terms of sale: 50% on 3+ Burning Bush Publications has moved. Burning
books. Will bill, net 30. Shipping is a $3 flat fee. Odd Bush Publications, PO Box 9636, Oakland CA 95061,
Girls will now accept returns within 60 days of the new email: (abbyb@earthlink.net).
shipping date if the books are not damaged.
Electronic News
New Distributors A Room of One's Own (Madison WI) has a Web
Moxie: For the Woman Who Dares, a smart maga- site! Visit them at (http://userpages.itis.com/room).
zine that tells women about real life rather than Cleis Press also has a Web site, which has early
plying them with the usual palaver about how to annoucements of new books and books-in-progress,
play into the hands of a man, has a host of new dis- author event news, and their catalog. Soon the site
tributors. Moxie is now available from Armadillo, will also contain book excerpts, reviews, and author
Coronet News, Ingram, Koen, Macs Magazine, interviews. (http://www.cleispress.com) o
WRITING WANTED
By Teri Mae Rutledge Canada; email (for queries only!) (kxt@ihermes.com).
Cleis Press is seeking information for a Alyson is seeking real-life lesbian romantic and
sex-positive resource book on sexuality and disabil- dangerous stories. If you've had an evening that
ity. The guide will be geared toward a diverse turned into something that could have been up on the
audience — het, bi, and gay; young and old; part- big screen, write about it! Alyson asks that you con-
nered and single; sexually experienced and new to sider the following questions: Who were you with?
sexual exploration — and will represent a wide range What were you doing with them? Where were you
of disabilities. Participants will compłlete a question- and what year was it? When did your seemingly ordi-
naire; alternatively, Cleis can conduct phone nary evening change? Was it danger-filled or
interviews. All participants will remain annonymous. romance-filled? How did this change your life? For
Deadline: February 1. For more information, contact more information and complete guidelines, write to
Cleis Press, PO Box 14684, San Francisco CA 94114; Dangerous Women, Romantic Women, Alyson Pub-
415-575-4700, email (fncleis@ao1.com). lications, 6922 Hollywood Boulevard Ste. 1000, Los
Karen X. Tulchinsky is accepting short fiction Angeles CA 90028.
(1000 words or less) for Hot and Bothered 2, the second A new quarterly literary journal, Manzanita
anthology in a series of lesbian erotic stories. Quarterly, is accepting submissions for its Spring and
Tulchinsky is seeking stories from around the world Summer issues. MQ has a Northwest focus and
that reflect the diversity of desire between women. accepts poetry and prose writing. Deadline for
The book will be published in Fall 1999 by Arsenal Spring: February 9. Deadline for Summer: May 9. For
Pulp Press. Deadline: February 15. For full guidelines, complete guidelines, contact Holly Hertel, Associate
contact Karen X. Tulchinsky, Hot and Bothered, PO Editor, Manzanita Quarterly, PO Box 1234, Ashland
Box 100, 1036 Odlum Dr., Vancouver BC V5L 3L6, OR 97520; email (hhhertel@aol.com). O
January/February 1999 66
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsD
Mother Kali’s Books
Eugene OR
November Bestsellers
PAPERBACK 4. Cavedweller by Dorothy Allison, $24.95,
1. Split-Level Dykes to Watch Out For by Alison Dutton
Bechdel, $10.95, Firebrand 5. Screaming to Be Heard: Hormonal
2. We'Moon 1999 Calendar, $14.95, Mother Connections That Women Suspect...and
Tongue Ink Doctors Ignore by Elizabeth Vliet, M.D., $27.50,
3. The Indelible Alison Bechdel: Confessions, M. Evans & Co.
Comix, and Miscellaneous Dykes to Watch
Out For by Alison Bechdel, $16.95, Firebrand Full Circle Books
n . Book by Whoopi Goldberg, $6.99, Avon Albuquerque NM
5. Divine Secrets of the Ya-Ya Sisterhood by November Bestsellers
Rebecca Wells, $14, HarperCollins
. Beloved by Toni Morrison, $12.95, Plume FICTION
N O . Switch by Carol Guess, $14.95, CALYX Books 1. Render Up the Body by Marian Wesson, $5.95
8. Transgender Warriors by Leslie Feinberg, $17, pb, HarperCollins
Beacon Press 2. Split-Level Dykes to Watch Out For by Alison
9. Menopausal Years: The Wise Woman Way, Bechdel, $10.95 pb, Firebrand
Alternate Approaches for Women 30-90 by 3. Tree of Red Stars by Tessa Bridal, $13.95 pb,
Susun S. Weed, $9.95, Ash Tree Publications Thunder’s Mountain Press
10. Women’s Bodies, Women’s Wisdom: Creating 4. Poisonwood Bible by Barbara Kingsolver, $26
Physical and Emotional Healing by Christiane c], HarperCollins
Northrup, M.D., $17.95, Bantam 5. Awakening the Virgin edited by Nicole Foster,
11. Two Old Women by Velma Wallis, $11, $12.95 pb, Alyson
HarperPerennial 6. Bitter Grounds by Sandra Benitez, $15 pb,
12. Between Jesus and the Market: The Emotions Picador USA
That Matter in Right-Wing America by Linda 7. Beloved by Toni Morrison, $12.95 pb, Plume
Kintz, $15.95, Duke University Press 8. Magician’s Assistant by Ann Patchett, $13 pb,
Harvest
HARDCOVER 9. Divine Secrets of the Ya-Ya Sisterhood by
1. By the Light of My Father's Smile by Alice Rebecca Wells, $14 pb, HarperCollins
Walker, $22.95, Random House 10. By the Light of My Father's Smile by Alice
2. Poisonwood Bible by Barbara Kingsolver, $26, Walker, $22.95 cl, Random House
3. NH oa tr op re ir oC uo s ll i Vn is ctoria: The Life of Victoria NONFICTION
Woodhull, Uncensored by Mary Gabriel, 1. We'Moon 1999 Calendar, $14.95 pb, Mother
$24.95, Algonquin Tongue Ink
Volume 21 Number 5
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
2. From Crisis to Creativity by Gail Feldman,
$15.95 pb, Book Partners Inc. Braund, $11.95 pb, Naiad
w . 1999 Passion Calendar by Judy Fransconi
pb, Prime Crime
Ferrari International
by Pearl Cleage, $12 pb, Avon
Vanzant, $13 pb, Fireside
and Bisexual Youth — and Their Allies by
c], Beacon Ellen Bass, $14 pb, HarperCollins
7. When Things Fall Apart by Pema Chodron,
$18 pb, Shambhala $12 pb, Vintage
$25.95 cl, Bantam Doubleday Dell Milkweed
pb, Beacon Rebecca Wells, $14 pb, HarperCollins
Ballantine Books $12.95 pb, Duke University Press
Common Language PB le ulo mv eed by Toni Morrison, $12.95 pb,
A Nn on v eA mrb bor e r M I Bestsellers SL ce ot p's p eF ta tc oe n e t , h e $ 5 .M 99u s pic b , a n Bd a l lD anie t i nb ey B S oa on kd sra
1. Split-Level Dykes to Watch Out For by Alison FaLmilyi tOuttingl bey , Ch as titBy Brono,o $2w4 cl,n o
Bechdel, $10.95 pb, Firebrand
Subscribe!
Name
Business Name or Affiliation
Address
City/State/Zip
Phone Fax E-mail
[1 1 year — $70.* Check enclosed. [J Publicist [J General independent
[H 1 year — $75. Bill us. [J Alternative/political
[J Plus $23 for international postage. [J Writer [H Spiritual, Wiccan, New Age
[H Plus $10 for Canadian postage. [J Other
[D Half year — $35. Bookstores:
[J Sample copy — $6. Periodicals: [1 We have one store only
I am/We are: Is your focus primarily: O[ wJ n e dM bu y:ltiple locations: # of stores:
[H [J B oo k Psel uler b l(s iee s hals eo r co l um [Hn 3) L[J e F sem bi in aist n H women H men D both
[D Periodical [] Lesbian & Gay __ % of stock by/for/about women
[O Librarian [N] Gay ____% of staff are women
t... * Individual and single store rates Year opened: 19..
January/February 1999 Volume 21 Number 5
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Laura Irene Wayne
By Linda Bubon percent discount on books they buy for classroom use
Women and Children First/Chicago IL out of their own money. We feel this is close enough to
compete with B&N’s 20 percent discount.
I'm writing my column at the beginning of the Many of the books in this column will be great for
holiday season, and, as is the case most years, I'm Black and/or Women’s History Months, but there are
regretting the lack of display space in our kids’ sec- also some other great books from the Fall and Winter
tion. Here are all these beautiful picture books, fun lists that I wouldn't want you to miss. Two of my
kits, book-and-doll combos, not to mention Hanuk- favorites this past Fall are from Knopf. Mavis Jukes
kah, Christmas, and Kwanzaa books — all terrific for (It’s a Girl Thing) has written a younger girl's edition
gift giving — being crowded out by all those more of her informative pre-teen book, Growing Up: It’s a
serious educational books of biography, history, and Girl Thing ($10 pb, 0-679-89027-0). This one is forth-
multicultural studies. But when you’re reading this right and funny and covers topics such as hormones,
post holiday, I'll be glad I'm well stocked with those anatomy, and menstruation. For ages 8-11. Also from
educational books for our annual teachers’ sale (on the Random family, now in paperback, The Ballot
Martin Luther King Day) and Black and Women’s Box Battle by Emily Arnold McCully ($6.99 pb,
History Months. Maintaining a balance between the 0-679-89312-1), should be a favorite for Women’s His-
books kids love, the books parents love, the books tory Month. The story features Elizabeth Cady
subversive aunties delight in, and the books teachers Stanton and her young neighbor, Cordilia, whom
need and want for classroom use is an ongoing chal- she’s teaching to ride and jump horses. But on Elec-
lenge for me. Ann and most of our staff would tion Day, Elizabeth takes Cordelia to the polls with
probably say I resolve the dilemma by just ordering her where she attempts, as she regularly did, to vote.
too much of everything, but I feel vindicated when I At first embarrassed by Stanton’s outspokenness,
see customers return every holiday season to buy Cordelia is given a lesson in courage and self-respect,
gifts or have a teacher be able to spend all of her $1000 and she comes away from the experience inspired.
grant in one place.
Being able to cycle some books into overstock to
make room for seasonal stock is helpful, and keeping
overstock organized and accessible for special
requests is essential. Last year we put out an extra “Inspiring” is the word for Diane Stanley’s
table for Black and Women’s History Months, large sumptuously illustrated story, Joan of Arc ($16 pb,
enough to hold three or four boxes covered in bright 0688-14329-6, Morrow-Junior Books). Stanley’s text
kids’ wrap, filled with bios, history, and historical sto- is lively and well researched; the accompanying
ries and folktales. It’s very helpful to label boxes by paintings are inspired by illuminated medieval
grade or age level, keep boxes at waist level so custom- manuscripts.
ers can easily flip through them, and be sure to include Two January paperback releases from Harper-
some of them in your window displays during Janu- Collins about slavery are certainly inspiring, but
ary, February, and March. (We offer K-12 teachers a 15 they're also intriguing and suspenseful. For younger
69 January/February 1999
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
children (6—9), Barefoot: Escape on the Underground Also new in paperback from S&S is one of my
Railroad ($5.95 pb, 0-06-443519-9) by Pamela Duncan favorites from five or six years ago, The Wise Woman
Edwards, illustrated by Henry Cole, is a great and Her Secret ($5.99 pb, 0-689-82381-9) by the late
read-aloud or bedtime book. The animals of the forest Eve Merriam, illustrated by Linda Graves. This is sure
guide the fleeing slave to safety while they attack and to appeal to the wise woman/goddess-loving folks,
mislead his pursuers. Cole’s paintings are dark and and there’s a warm colorful cover with a cat on it! For
haunting, but not scary. The night, the stars, and the those who like their heroines adventurous and fear-
critters are benevolent forces. I’ve used this story with less, Brave Margaret: An Irish Adventure ($17 cl,
second and fourth graders, and they really liked it. 0-689-81072-5) by Robert D. San Souci, illustrated by
Edwards’ text conveys the “barefoot’s” fear and the Sally Wein Comport, is just the ticket. Margaret faces
slave catchers’ meanness simply and eloquently. For a sea serpent, a giant, and a sorceress; she must use a
middle-grade readers, Doreen Rappaport provides magic ring and an enchanted sword; and she must
plenty of suspense in Escape From Slavery: Five believe in her own bravery and strength before she
Journeys to Freedom ($4.95 pb, 0-06-446169-6). In and her true love can return home. I happen to love
gripping stories she recounts the courage and ingenuity Irish fairy tales, and this is a fine one; I can't wait to
of Black Americans escaping slavery against incredible read this to 7-10-year-olds.
odds. Great for classroom use, the stories are based on Another reasonably appropriate, longer picture
primary source material and are accompanied by a bib- book is Deborah Hopkinson’s A Band of Angels: A
liography, information on slave laws, and descriptions Story Inspired by the Jubilee Singers ($16 cl,
of Underground Railroad Leaders. Charles Lilly’s pic- 0-689-81062-8), beautifully illustrated by one of my
tures enhance the text. Teacher's guides are available in favorites, Raul Colon. This is another post-slavery
packs of 25 (0-06-449392-X). setting, based on the real history of the Jubilee Singers
and the building of Fisk University (then Fisk School).
The Jubilee Singers were formed to raise money for
the school. Although they began performing pop
music of the time, they became very successful — and
An excellent novel for middle schoolers that takes are to this day — by performing and thus preserving
place in 1865 and features former slaves claiming and the spirituals from slavery times.
farming land, only to see it taken away from them, is A few other offerings from Simon Junior deserve
Forty Acres and Maybe a Mule ($16 cl, 0-689-82078-X) mention here. Livia Bitton-Jackson’s touching and
by Chicagoan Harriette Gillem Rabinet. Rabinet memorable holocaust memoir, I Have Lived a Thou-
specializes in middle and junior high school Black his- sand Years ($4.99 pb, 0-689-82395-9), is in paperback
torical fiction. Forty Acres is from Simon & Schuster in February, and My Bridges of Hope: Searching for
Junior, which has quite a few good titles for Black and Life and Love after Auschwitz ($17 cl, 0-689-
Women’s History Months. Fly, Bessie, Fly ($16 cl, 82026-7), her continuing story, will be published then
0-689-81339-2), by Lynn Joseph, illustrated by Yvonne as well. The author, her mother, and brother returned
Buchannan, is an appealing picture book biography to Czechoslovakia to face the harsh realities of a post-
(ages 4-8) about Bessie Coleman, the first Black woman war communist government and the loss of their
in the world to earn a pilot's license. There are several father. For six years they moved from one temporary
good books about Bessie Coleman; this one reminds shelter to another, rescuing Jewish orphans from riot-
young listeners that sometimes their wildest dreams ing Slovak partisans, smuggling refugees to Palestine,
can come true. A fictional story stressing courage and and finally engineering their own escape. For ages 11
perseverance, Jojo’s Flying Side Kick ($5.99 pb, 0-689- and up. You may get asked for A Name On The Quilt
82192-1) by Brian Pinkney, also stars a beautiful and ($16 cl, 0-689-81592-1) by Jeannine Atkins, illustrated
energetic Black girl. This was a fave of our former book- by Tad Hills, and including photos of panels from the
seller, Jenifer Carns, who studied martial arts. Jojo's AIDS Memorial Quilt. I found the story rather con-
worries about earning her yellow belt and her search trived, but I don’t know of any other kids’ books
for inner strength resonated for Jennifer. about the quilt, so you may want to represent it. `
January/February 1999 70
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
The Penguin/Putnam publishing conglomerate important things in the world” (emphasis theirs).
has some strong girls’ titles for Spring, including Jean For older readers, two great books starring girls
Fritz’s You Want Women to Vote, Lizzie Stanton? will be out in March and April. Lloyd Alexander, a
($5.99 pb, 0-698-11764-6), illustrated by DyAnne master storyteller whose adventures typically feature
DiSalvo-Ryan, now in paper. This is a short chapter boys, introduces Vesper Holly in The Illyrian Adven-
book for ages 7-11 that gives enough details about ture ($4.99 pb, 0-14-130313-1). Booklist gave this a
Stanton so readers can identify with her and enough starred review: “A story that moves at breakneck
background so young readers get a picture of the soci- speed and is filled with delicious details...elegant writ-
ety she was trying to change. Two other fun stories in ing, astute characterizations, and an intelligent
paperback, ostensibly for that same age, are The Five heroine.” For ages 12 and up, Dancing on The Edge
Sisters ($3.99 pb, 0-14-130334-4) by the consistently ($4.99 pb, 0-14-130203-8), by Han Nolan features an
delightful New Zealand writer Margaret Mahy, illus- emotionally disturbed girl being raised by her psychic
trated by Patricia McCarthy, and Happily Ever After grandmother. When her father suddenly disappears,
($3.99 pb, 0-14-038706-4), by Anna Quindlen, illus- she searches for him, losing herself in the quest.
trated by James Stephenson. Excellent anti-princess Intense and beautifully written, this 1997 National
fare, my twelve-year-old and I read The Five Sisters Book Award winner is sure to draw readers in.
together at bedtime one night and we were both One last book you may have missed last fall is a
enchanted. This is multi-layered and truly for all ages unique offering from World Book Encyclopedia.
— storytelling at its best. They've been gradually adding trade titles the last
Two nonfiction books with flower-power cover few years and we do well with their book and
designs, for the apparently still-expanding mid- CD-ROM packages on nonfiction topics (Ancient
dle-school girls’ market, are just out in paperback Egypt, Electricity, Volcanoes). To coincide with the 50th
originals from Penguin. Body Art ($9.95 pb, anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human
1-90188-124-5), by Ted Polhemus, an anthropologist, is Rights, they've published Stand up for Your Rights
a book and kit about body decoration containing ($14.95 cl, 0-7166-0352-7; $9.95 pb, 0-7166-0353-5), a
bindis, henna stencil, glitter stickers, temporary body book about human rights, written, illustrated, and
paint, and tattoos. Girl to Girl ($4.95 pb, 1-90188-129-6) edited by young people of the world. Children
by Anne Driscoll focuses on relationships, because, the express their fears and hopes about peace and human
catalog copy tells us, “Relationships are the most rights, exploring the way forward for our world. O
Volume 21 Number 5 71 January/February 1999
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
By Nan Cinnater “Breezy narrative riffs... This sassy heroine is some-
Cape & Dagger, Provincetown MA thing else.” ($5.99 pb, 0-446-60664-2, February,
Warner.) I'm happy to see Carter's African American
It’s that time again: African American History heroine return in the sequel, Cog Au Vin. Here New
Month, followed by Women’s History Month! This York-based Nanette Hayes, a jazz and poetry-
column contains a roundup of recent African Ameri- addicted Francophile, actually gets to go to Paris in
can women’s mysteries and feminist historical search of her Aunt Vivian, whose clue-strewn trail
mysteries; for more titles and ideas on History leads to an old scam in the Paris jazz clubs and an old
Month mysteries please check out the January/ murder. ($22 cl, 0-89296-678-5, February, Warner.)
February 98 FBN. Judging from Rhode Island Red, so hip, stylish, and
White Chocolate by Elizabeth Atkins Bowman outstanding in a genre full of clones, I'd say these are
begins with a terrific premise. Taylor James, a biracial must-carries.
TV reporter, infiltrates a white supremacy hate group Another must-carry heroine is the astute, femi-
in Michigan. Her videotaped report on their murder- nist, solidly working-class and proud domestic
ous activities puts the leadership in prison; but when worker Blanche White, featured in three mysteries by
they get out, they threaten to kill her. After a spectacu- Barbara Neely. The latest of these, Blanche Cleans Up,
larly suspenseful yet true-to-life opening, the story will be out in paper in April, just missing the History
turns to romance, and we learn way more than we months, but Blanche is a treat for all seasons. In her lat-
want to know about Taylor's past and present love est adventure Blanche fills in as cook/housekeeper for
life. Although it didn’t work as a thriller for me, a Boston Brahmin politician and uncovers lots of dirty
White Chocolate attempts two things that are rare linen. Blanche speaks with the Ancestors (her spiritual
and important in contemporary fiction: to deal with practice), deals with teenage pregnancy in her own
the militant, organized branch of American racism, family, and exposes a phony religious leader, as well
and to explore the everyday experience of a biracial as solving several murders. In addition, we get to see a
woman. $23.95 cl, 0-312-86306-3, Forge/St. Martin’s. lot of her Roxbury neighborhood through Blanche’s
Ai eyes ($5.99 pb, 0-14-027747-1, Penguin). Don’t neglect
the backlist: the classic Blanche on the Lam ($5.99 pb,
0-14-017439-7, Penguin) and Blanche Among the
Talented Tenth, which takes on class and color
consciousness among African Americans ($5.99 pb,
0-14-025036-0, Penguin).
In Mama Stalks the Past by Nora DeLoach, we
I loved the neo-noir plot and style of Rhode meet another African American amateur sleuth:
Island Red by Charlotte Carter (reviewed in the Grace Covington, a social worker in a small Southern
November 97 FBN), now available in mass-market. town. The story is told by her adult daughter, Simone,
This edition has a great cover and a great blurb from a paralegal who works in Atlanta but spends a large
New York Times mystery reviewer Marilyn Stasio: amount of time away from her job helping Mama
January/February 1999 72
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
solve mysteries. Like the “Cat Who” books, this is a women’s bookstores, it’s well worth stocking
mystery lite: a simply told story with just enough Monfredo’s entire Seneca Falls series, a fictional and
complications to keep your attention, best reserved very feminist survey of mid-19th-century social
for insomnia, a high fever or a hospital stay. Don’t issues, especially the early women’s rights move-
read while hungry, though; Simone dwells lovingly ment. They are all available in mass market paper
on Mama's cooking, and the story often halts com- from Berkley: Seneca Falls Inheritance ($5.99, 0-425-
pletely for detailed descriptions of candied yams, 14465-8), North Star Conspiracy ($5.99,
fried chicken, sweet potato pies — you get the idea. 0-425-14720-7), Blackwater Spirits ($5.99, 0-425-
($5.99 pb, 0-553-57721-2, Bantam.) There are three 14266-9), and Through a Gold Eagle ($5.99,
other “Mama” mysteries: Mama Stands Accused 0-425-16695-3). A number of women requested these
($10.95 tp, 0-87067-873-6), Mama Saves a Victim backlist titles at our store last summer; they are hard
($10.95 tp, 0-87067-874-4, both from Holloway to find in stores and they will sell.
House), and Mama Rocks the Empty Cradle ($21.95 The hot new feminist historical mysteries are
c], 0-553-10703-8, Bantam). Margaret Lawrence's dark melodramas about mid-
In this column last year, I noted that Paula L. wife and healer Hannah Trevor, who lives in Maine
Woods’ anthology Spooks, Spies, and Private Eyes is just after the Revolutionary War. Hannah appears in
the essential resource in African American mysteries, two paperbacks, Hearts and Bones ($5.99 pb,
and that still holds true ($12.95 pb, 0-385-47955-7, 0-380-78879-9, Avon) and Blood Red Roses ($6.50 pb,
Doubleday). Now Woods is publishing her first novel 0-380-78880-2, Avon), and a recent hardcover, The
in the genre. Inner City Blues introduces Detective Burning Bride ($23 cl, 0-380-97620-X, Avon). These
Charlotte Justice of the very white, male, racist LAPD. are also perfect for feminist bookstores.
Don’t miss it. ($23.95 cl, 0-393-04680-X, Foul Play
Press, distributed by W.W. Norton.)
Eleanor Taylor Bland, the foremother of the
Black woman's police procedural, continues her
series about single mom and homicide detective
Marti McAlister with a new paperback, See No Evil
($5.99, 0-312-96818-3, St. Martin’s) and a new hard-
cover, Tell No Tales ($22.95 cl, 0-312-20067-6, St.
Martin’s). Others in the series include Done Wrong Regular readers of this column know that I'm in
($4.99 pb, 0-312-95794-7, St. Martin’s) and Keep Still awe of Stephanie Barron, whose uncanny mastery of
($5.99 pb, 0-312-96172-3). Jane Austen’s style is what makes her “Jane” myster-
Valerie Wilson Wesley brings back Newark pri- ies so outstanding. Barron is now on her fourth
vate eye Tamara Hayle in Easier to Kill. ($22.95 cl, mystery starring a fictionalized but well-researched
0-399-14445-5, Putnam.) Wesley has a gift for believ- Jane Austen as sleuth. In Jane and the Genius of the
able, noir-ish suspense that has made her a Place Austen is off to the Canterbury Races, where
Blackboard bestseller. No Hiding Place, the previous she’ finds a body in a carriage ($22.95 c|,
Tamara Hayle thriller, is now out in paper. ($6.99, 0-553-10733-X, Bantam.) The third Jane Austen
0-380-72909-1, Avon.) mystery, Jane and the Wandering Eye, is now avail-
Take advantage of Women’s History Month to able in paper ($5.99 pb, 0-553-57817-0, Bantam). The
promote historical mysteries (the new trend), espe- previous two were Jane and the Unpleasantness at
cially the many recent feminist historical mysteries. In Scargrave Manor ($5.99, 0-553-57593-7) and Jane and
The Stalking Horse by Miriam Grace Monfredo, our the Man of the Cloth ($5.99, 0-553-57489-2).
heroine Bronwen Lyr, a young Pinkerton agent on her There's practically a cottage industry these days
first assignment, uncovers an assassination plot in mysteries about Queen Elizabeth I. Now out in
against President-elect Lincoln on the eve of the Civil mass market paperback, Fiona Buckley's To Shield
War. This is closely based on an actual historical inci- the Queen introduces Ursula Blanchard, a
dent. ($5.99 pb, 0-425-16695-3, Berkley.) For feminist lady-in-waiting as well as a kind of Elizabethan
73 January/February 1999
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
special agent who takes on delicate assignments in a great time to promote Unpunished, the newfound
court full of treason and intrigue. ($6.50 pb, mystery novel by early 20th-century feminist Char-
0-671-01531-1, Pocket.) Lady Ursula returns in The lotte Perkins Gilman. ($10.95 tp, 1-5586-1185-1,
Doublet Affair by Fiona Buckley. ($21 cl, 0-684- Feminist Press.)
83842-7, Scribner.) Then there's The Poyson Garden The theme issue aside, here are a few more
by Karen Harper, in which young Elizabeth herself is interesting new titles for spring. I loved Deborah
the sleuth, long before she becomes Queen of Eng- Crombie’s Dreaming of the Bones (reviewed in the
land. ($21.95 cl, 0-385-33283-1, February, Delacorte/ Summer 98 FBN), which considers the suicide — or
Dell.) Finally, in a more literary, Umberto Eco-ish murder? — of a brilliant woman poet, interweaving
mode, Patricia Finney’s critically lauded Firedrake’s past and present in the light of feminist literary
Eye concerns a plot to assassinate Elizabeth. ($13 tp, scholarship. Dreaming of the Bones is now avail-
0-312-18094-2, Picador/St. Martin’s.) Finney’s new able in paper with great cover blurbs. ($5.99 pb,
paperback, Unicorn Blood, centers around a scandal- 0-553-57931-2, Bantam.) Kissed a Sad Goodbye is
ous private diary kept by the young Elizabeth that Deborah Crombie’s new novel featuring Scotland
could bring down her government. ($14 tp, Yard team Duncan Kincaid and Gemma James. This
0-312-20039-0, Picador /St. Martin’s.) looks to be another rich, layered mystery in which
Other recent historicals culled from this year’s the present-day murder of a young woman is inter-
columns include Dead March by Ann McMillan, a twined with the story of a child evacuated from
Civil War mystery in which a white woman and a free London during the Blitz. ($23.95 cl, 0-553-10943-X
Black woman cooperate to solve the murder of a slave April, Bantam.)
girl. ($21.95 cl, 0-670-88147-3, Viking.) In The Shop- You might be able to sell Ashes to Ashes, Tami
keeper's Wife by Noelle Sickles, a 19th-century Hoag’s new serial killer thriller featuring ex-FBI
housemaid gets involved in a sensational murder trial agent, now victim advocate Kate Conlan. Hoag’s
in Philadelphia. ($24.95 cl, 0-312-19333-5, St. tense and graphic suspense has become very popular
Martin’s.) in our store with fans of Cornwell and other harder
boiled authors. ($24.95 cl, 0-553-10633-3, March, Ban-
tam.) Ever popular in our store are Rita Mae Brown’s
cat mysteries, the latest of which is Cat on the Scent.
($23.95 cl, 0-553-09971-X, March, Bantam.)
Chris Rogers is on the second book in her series
about the “other” female bounty hunter, Dixie
Flannigan. Unlike Janet Evanovich’s Stephanie Plum,
Houston-based Dixie is a serious professional with a
hard edge, although her narrative voice is funny and
colloquial. Dixie debuted in Bitch Factor, now in
Death and Blintzes by Dorothy and Sidney paper ($5.99, 0-553-58001-9, Bantam), and the new
Rosen is unknown to me, but it certainly seems to fit hardcover is Rage Factor ($23.95 cl, 0-553-10660-0,
in a Women’s History Month roundup. How often February, Bantam).
does a Depression-era garment worker (and loyal On a completely different note, consider Irene
union member) star in her own mystery? ($10.95 tp, Allen's calmly philosophical Quaker mysteries about
0-89733-450-7, Academy Chicago.) Light-hearted but middle-aged Elizabeth Elliot, Clerk of the Quaker
very feminist historical mysteries include The Ape Meeting in Cambridge, Massachusetts. In Quaker
Who Guards the Balance, the latest in Elizabeth Indictment Elizabeth travels to Seattle, where she
Peters’ comic series about Victorian Egyptologist teams up with a young woman doctor to find an old
Amanda Peabody ($24 cl, 0-380-97657-9, Avon), and friend who has disappeared. ($5.99 pb, 0-312-96684-9,
Emperor Norton’s Ghost by Dianne Day, featuring St. Martin's.) Allen’s other paperback in print is
the irrepressible Fremont Jones in 1908 San Francisco QuaMker Tesatimorny. t($5.9i9 pnb, 0-’312s-96.424)-2, St . O
($21.95 cl, 0-385-48608-1, Doubleday). This is also a
January/February 1999 74
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Compiled by Barb Smalley /Ladyslipper Music more Western instrumentation. Pharoah Sanders’
Original reviews by Laurie Fuchs, Matt Nicholson, and Joe Henderson’s tenor sax and alto flute accom-
and Jessica Fields paniment are split between the two channels in that
old-time total stereo way that is so cool. Impulse 201.
If you are looking to give your music section a Amazing Grace (2-CD set)/ Aretha Franklin.
distinctive Women’s and/or Black History Month This 1972 classic double album, recorded with James
dimension, here are some new and old titles to Cleveland and the Southern California Community
consider: Choir, contains gospel greats such as the title track,
Period Pieces: Women’s Songs for Men and “Mary Don’t You Weep,”and “Climbing Higher
Women/Peggy Seeger. This important singer- Mountains.” As Rolling Stone said, “She sings like
songwriter, from the famous musical and political never before on record. ...the sounds of unqualified
Seeger family, has given voice to feminist and many joy hit with tremendous power.” We were led to add
other progressive issues for many years. Lest anyone this to our catalog by the women at Sisterspace in DC
believe these songs are “retro” because we live in a who say they play it “all the time.” Atlantic 906.
post-feminist world, the liner notes state that “The The Audience with Betty Carter (2-CD set)/
privileges and rights won in the last three decades Betty Carter. In tribute to her life and gifts to us all,
were won mostly by and for white younger unmar- we've brought back this amazing double concert
ried middle-class Western women. They have yet to album. Originally issued on LP on her own Bet-Car
apply to the bulk of human females... This album label, it includes the upbeat and lush “Caribbean
speaks of issues that are still close to the lives of Sun,” her self-penned “Open the Door,” and her
women today.” Includes her classics “I'm Gonna Be in-concert grand finale, “Sounds (Moving On)”
an Engineer,” “Different Therefore Equal,” “Reclaim (which took up the entire side of one of the LPs). Of all
the Night,” “Carry Greenham Home,” “Union her releases, this essential recording probably comes
Woman II,” “Winnie and Sam,” and “Nine Month closest to capturing the dynamism of her spectacular
Blues” — 17 songs in all, written over a 30-year performances. Verve 835684.
period. Tradition 1078.
Ptah the El Daoud/Alice Coltrane. When her
magnificent album Journey in Satchidananda went
once again to out-of-printland, we searched for some-
thing worthy to take its place in our catalog and To Ella/Odetta. A tribute to Ella Fitzgerald as
encountered this 1970 gem. Before there was “New only Odetta could do! Recorded at the 1996 Kerrville
Age,” this amazing composer and piano/harp instru- Folk Festival on the anniversary of Ella’s death, this
mentalist was fusing her knowledge of jazz, world 1998 release honors Odetta’s and Ella's shared roots in
music, and Eastern spirituality, creating sounds that American gospel and folk music. Odetta fans will
were to become the foundations of a genre. Recorded appreciate the matriarch’s always-powerful guitar and
shortly before Satchidananda, this album leans a bit voice paying homage to one of the many women
more in a jazz direction (a highly melodic one) with singers who've influenced her music. Ella fans will
Volume 21 Number 5 75 January/February 1999
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
women’s choruses in the country (under the direction
You’ve heard that of Catherine Roma) graces us with their new release.
(M7 Among the 17 audience favorites included here are
music sells great. Fred Small’s “Everything Possible,” Holly Near’s
Goldenrod Music “Simply Love,” Ysaye Barnwell/Kahlil Gibran’s “On
Children,” and Therese Edell’s “Take Back the Guns.”
makes it easy too! As a whole, the recording is a shining reflection of the
commitment to musical excellence and social change
of this feminist choir, which has been going strong
v Same Day Shipping since 1982. Muse 2.
(New Stores - Free Shipping for 3 Orders) And. a songbook: Continuum/Sweet Honey in
s/ Large Selection the Rock. Subtitled “The First Songbook of Sweet
«No Risk - 100% Returns H (co on ine cy i d ii nn g t h we i t hR o tc hk e,” ir t h 25is t h u n aniq nu ie v, e rh sais rt yo )r i c f e ap tu ub rl ei sc a t oi von er
«Knowledgeable Staff 200 pages of music and lyrics, biographical essays of
(...and fun to talk to!) t soh ne g sc ,o r ae s m we em ll b e asr s , s h i on rs tt r u exct pi lo an ns a t ii on n s p e or ff o er am chin g s o nth g e —
VVYVYVYVYVVYVVYVVYVYVYV.yYy written by the authors themselves. Compiled and
edited by Ysaye M. Barnwell, with a foreword by
Harry Belafonte, Jr., it is certain to become a collec-
tor’s item for generations to come and for those who
have had the privilege to share in the group’s timeless
message of human struggle and triumph. Third
World Press 211.
Here are more new releases:
appreciate the insight into the musical traditions that Milkman /Phranc.One of our favorite Jewish
inspired the jazz singer. “If ever there was a melting pot lesbian folksingers returns with her first full-length
in this country, I think it’s been in the music,’ Odetta album in seven years! Includes the Israeli folksong
says during the 27-minute medley, “Suite: Ancestors.” “Tzena Tzena” (which brings back fond childhood
And if there ever was a musician who respected the memories of my favorite Weavers album), “Ozzie and
power of that music, it’s Odetta. Silverwolf 1012. Harriet,” “They Lied,” “Cuffs,” and more. Look for a
The Mother of Us All (2-CD set) /Gertrude Stein touring Phranc in early 99. Phancy 1.
and Virgil Thomson. Capturing the final collaboration Real Cowboy Girl/Cowboy Envy. “The reasons
between Gertrude Stein (text) and Virgil Thomson for Cowboy Envy’s origins seem as obscure as the rea-
(music), which Gertrude didn’t live to hear, this very son that men saddle cows, but this we do know: their
unique 2-CD set presents this work performed by the rhythms kick like a branded heifer, their harmonies
Santa Fe Opera. Focusing on Susan B. Anthony, the thwart the ambition of singing birds, and their humor
pioneering 19th-century women’s rights activist, it’s a makes folks in big Western States pause for a
superb mix of incredible word-play about politics, moment.” These three yodellin’ harmonizin’ women
women and men, and voting rights, set to Thompson’s present a great program of both classic and original
“musical memory book” of gospel hymns, marches, cowgirl tunes: the title track (from the 30s), “High
ballads, waltzes, intoned sermons, and tunes derived Ridin’ Woman” (“She commands and men obey”),
from rural America. Originally released on LP in 1977, Dale Evans’ “Happy Trails,” their own “Harmony the
the original 4-track master tapes were meticulously Cowgirl Way” and many more. They’re getting rave
remixed and cleaned. New World 288. reviews; check them out! Niki Viki Music 1.
Sing to the Universe Who We Are/ MUSE- Smashing the Serene/Rachael Sage. Following
Cincinnati Women’s Choir. One of the most fabulous the lead of such self-contained contemporaries as Ani
January/February 1999 76
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
DiFranco, this young New York City artist releases Multiculti /Sally Nyolo. Over the years, Sally
(on her own label, of course!) her second album of has crafted a truly unique style that reflects her child-
lush pop songs that are as catchy as they are emotion- hood in Africa and her adult life in Europe. As an
ally insightful. Inspired by an eclectic mix of activist, a storyteller, and an artist her words are
influences (including Carole King, Elvis Costello, The poetic and progressive. The title track in particular,
Indigo Girls, Ani DiFranco, and Gershwin as well as performed in several languages, is a great anthem for
elements of Irish, Russian, and Middle Eastern our multicultural world; other songs deal with soli-
music), Rachael creates a unique mix of poetry and darity and racism, ancestors, and environmental
melody. Mpress Records 3636. issues. Fans of her and Zap Mama’s previous work
will be excited by the new directions she takes into
some even more challenging arrangements here. This
is a solid and enjoyable recording from one of the best
voices in African music today. Tinder 5400.
One Wild Night in Concert/Christine Lavin. Beneath My Touch/Sara McIntosh. If you've
Here’s a spontaneous example of the hilarity, creativ- been a music-festival attendee, perhaps you've
ity and rapport for which her concerts are renowned. encountered those wonderful “Sara’s Shoes” in the
Among the new songs: “They Look Alike, They Walk merchant area... Sara's solo piano release proves that
Alike,” inspired by Dolly the sheep; “National Apol- her gift is every bit as much with hands as with feet —
ogy Day,” her proposal for world peace; and “The this music is exquisite! These 18 solo piano composi-
Voice On the Relaxation Tape,” a very funny send-up tions are some of the most lovely, sweet, stirring,
of the New Age movement. Concert favorites include meditative, evocative melodies we've heard — all
the classic “Sensitive New Age Guys,” and her beautifully performed. If you like Margie Adam’s
most-requested song, “The Kind of Love You Never See Music, page 127.
Recover From.” Even the baton-twirling grand finale
is here (minus light sticks)! The album captures what
makes her one of the most popular performers on the Can You Afford Not to Call?
folk circuit. Christinelavin.com 1.
Radio Quiet/Cris Williamson and Tret Fure. It’s
a Valentine's Day release! Full of “story songs” (as
Susan Frazier tells me) that are likely to have endur- The Most Extensive Selection
ing appeal (my own assessment), it includes many
concert faves such as “On the Line,” “Choices,” of Recordings by Women
“Keeper of the Light,” and “The John Deere Song.”
The title track was written about the Jodie Foster film
“Contact.” And what Cris and Tret recording would Feminist/Women’s Music + Comedy + World
be complete without a love song or two, written to
each other? A must-have for old fans, and a great intro Drumming/Percussion + Rock/Pop + Spoken
for folks new to their music. Wolf Moon 5402. Alternative + Soundtracks + Men's Music
A Meditation for Healing /Libby Roderick. This
beautiful, devotional chant for protection and healing Blues + Spirituality + Jazz + Classical
(a mantra in an ancient, sacred language from India),
written at the request of a friend, is something new for Country + International + and much more...
Libby. Let her warm, clear voice and the exquisite
melody relax, calm, and heal you — people are using MT | 0e
it for everything from massage and meditation to
yoga to simply helping them (or their little ones) fall
asleep peacefully and wake up renewed! Turtle Nationally Distributing Music By Women Since 1976
Island 1005.
Volume 21 Number 5 77 January/February 1999
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
m
DEMNE ) j
By Tee A. Corinne to heroic dimensions. $17.95 cl, 0-7649-0867-9,
Pomegranate.
Most of you have probably noticed that I orga- Two more books are available about the Ameri-
nize books by price, with the least expensive listed can impressionist painter Mary Cassatt (1844-1926)
first — except when a book seems so exceptional that who spent much of her life in France. Mary Cassatt: A
its importance puts it at the top of the list. This is true Life by Nancy Mowll Mathews is a fascinating,
of two books this month. sympathetic, and highly readable study. $18 pb,
The Art of Joan Brown by Karen Tsujimoto and 0-300-07754-8, Yale.
Jacquelynn Baas presents the work of a contemporary Part of Cassatt’s appeal is in the sweetness of her
West Coast painter (1938-1990) who merged abstract imagery and the pastel tones she often used. These are
expressionist brushwork with figurative imagery, featured in Mary Cassatt: Reflections on Women’s
something many San Francisco Bay—area artists were Lives by Debra N. Mancoff, a gift book with many
doing in the late 1950s. Her work evolved in colorful, domestic portraits: women and babies, or women
autobiographical directions and is treasured for its sewing, knitting, or reading. $24.95 cl, 1-55670-852-1,
quirkiness and accessibility. $34.95 pb, 0-520-21469-2; Stewart Tabori & Chang.
$60 cl, 0-520-21468-4, An Ahmanson-Murphy Fine
Arts Book published by the University of California
Press in conjunction with the Berkeley Art Museum
and the Oakland Museum.
Lotte Jacobi (1896-1990) was born into a family of
photographers in Germany. Jewish, she fled to New The Alchemy of Possibility: Reinventing Your
York where she opened a studio. Unpretentious and Personal Mythology, The Artwork and Writings of
smart, she succeeded through hard work and a gift Carolyn Mary Kleefeld, foreword by Laura Huxley,
for capturing personality on film. Lotte Jacobi: contains colorful paintings that combine qualities of
Berlin/New York by Marion Beckers and Elisabeth new age with naiveté. It merges self-help and spiritu-
Moortgat gives an exceptional overview of her career. ality, uses clunky language, quotes a lot of male
$60 cl, 3-87584-636-2, Nicolai. Distributed by experts, and probably will sell well. Great cosmic cunt
DAP / Distributed Art Publishers. cover. $24.95 pb, 1-886708-03-7, Merrill-West. Distrib-
Funky and wild are great terms for the quilts and uted by Access Publishers Network; 800-345-0096.
cartoons in Riva: If Ya Wanna Look Good Honey, Portraits of Hope: Conquering Breast Cancer,
Your Feet Gotta Hurt by Ruth Reynolds. Riva is an 52 Inspirational Stories, photographs by Nora Feller,
alter ego for Reynolds who sews vignettes of the trials text by Marcia Stevens Sherril, foreword by Rosie
and joys of suburban married life with kids. $16.95 pb, O'Donnell, is packaged in a boxed set with Journal of
1-57120-048-7, C&T Publishing; 800-284-1114. Hope: A Meditative Recordkeeper with Inspirational
Domestic Goddesses by Edith Vonnegut offers Thoughts. Portraits is a timely and beautifully
hilarious new takes on traditional art history themes, produced collection of vibrant images and informa-
elevating acts like ironing and taking out the garbage tive text. Several prominent women (and one man)
January/February 1999 78
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
are included: Bella Abzug, Linda Ellerbee, Julia Child, Woodman edited by Hervé Chandès presents the
Betty Ford, and Nancy Reagan. The subjects are pho- extraordinary body of work she produced and offers
tographed in color, often at their workplaces or out of four essays as intellectual frames. $45 cl, 3-931141-
doors, perhaps surrounded by family. $24.95 cl, 96-9, Scalo. Distributed by DAP /Distributed Art
1-55670-855-6, Wonderland Press/Smithmark. Publishers.
It is thanks, in part, to the women’s movement Nell Blaine: Her Art and Life by Martica Sawin
that quilts have moved into the high art arena. Har- is a gorgeous, lush work about a painter (1922-1996)
monies and Hurricanes: Color and Line in Japanese who began working in the abstract 40s and 50s. She
Quilts by Kumiko Sudo presents innovative, bril- developed a loose, figurative style with a sensual
liantly colored, dynamically patterned quilts by a presence, present whether treating flowers in a gar-
contemporary artist. Included is an interview with den, city rooftops in the rain, or friends gathered
Sudo and a text which interweaves her memories around a table. Although paralyzed by polio in her
with cultural history. $27.95 pb, 0-8442-2661-0, late 30s, Blaine — who used a wheelchair for the rest
NTC/Contemporary Publishing Group, 4255 West of her life—regained the ability to draw and paint.
Touhy Ave, Lincolnwood IL 60646. Although she married briefly, she spent her last 30
Fabric artist Yvonne Porcella has been working years with a woman companion, which is noted in
with and writing about cloth-as-art for many years. the book. Drawings, watercolors, and oil paintings
She co-founded the Studio Art Quilt Associates in
1987. Yvonne Porcella: Art and Inspirations is part
memoir, part history, and a blaze of colorful, joyous
imagery. $29.95 pb, 1-57120-050-9, C&T. Publishing;
800-284-1114.
In Living on a Dream, A Marriage Tale, award-
winning photographer Patt Blue (born about 1943)
examines her parents’ flawed marriage through pho-
tos, narratives, and oral history. Many of the early
photos, including nude studies of Blue's mother,
were made by Blue’s father, an amateur photogra-
pher and womanizer. The whole is knit together by
Blue's own commentary. $28 cl, 1-57806-057-5, Uni-
versity Press of Mississippi.
Mariko Mori, with essays by Dominic Molon,
Lisa Corrin, Carol S. Eliel, and Margery King, claims
that Mori (born in Tokyo in 1967) “has quickly
become one of the most innovative and exciting
multimedia artists in the world.” The book’s imagery
consists of self-portraits with an extravagant sense of
humor. The text comes across as inflated. $20 pb,
0-933856-57-1, Museum of Contemporary Art,
Chicago/Serpentine Gallery, London. Distributed by
DAP/Distributed Art Publishers.
Francesca Woodman (1958-1981) made photo-
graphs from around the age of 13 until she committed
suicide at age 22. She used her own body, often nude,
in many of her images. The black and white pictures
combine seductiveness, isolation, and gritty alien-
ation. I have often thought that she must have been Self-Portrait with Fish and Cat by Joan Brown, in The Art
molested. Both of her parents were artists. Francesca of Joan Brown (University of California Press)-
Volume 21 Number 5 79 January/February 1999
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
are complemented by a lucid text and photos of the Julia Margaret Cameron (1815-1879) was a spec-
artist at work and play. $50 cl, 1-55595-113-9. Hudson tacular early portrait photographer who used her
Hills, (please note new address) 122 E 25th St., 5th FL, family, friends, and household staff as subjects, often
NY NY 10010. Distributed by National Book dressing them in heroic, mythological, or spiritual
Network. garb. Julia Margaret Cameron's Women by Sylvia
Reframings: New American Feminist Wolf gives a powerful view of Cameron’s work and a
Photographies edited by Diane Neumaier, foreword particularly compelling account of her life and times.
by Anne Wilkes Tucker, is now available in paper- $49.95 cl, 0-300-07781-5, Yale, in association with the
back. In the November /December 96 FBN I wrote Art Institute of Chicago.
that it “is a lavishly produced, highly intellectual, In the pricey but luscious category: A Covenant
multicultural/multiethnic exploration of the work of Seasons: Monotypes by Joellyn Duesberry,
by many contemporary women photographers.” To Poems by Pattiann Rogers, essay by David Park
that I would add that it includes work by openly les- Curry, contains glowing, generalized landscapes
bian photographer Catherine Opie who just won a juxtaposed with strong, nature-based poetry. $50 cl,
$50,000 award. Gives one faith. $24.95 pb, 1-55595-155-4, Hudson Hills, (note new address) 122
1-56639-332-9;. $59.95 cl, 1-56639-331-0, Temple E 25th St., 5th FL, NY NY 10010. Distributed by
University Press. National Book Network.
The cover of The Passionate Camera: Photog- Between Ourselves: The Photographs of Mari
raphy and Bodies of Desire edited by Deborah Mahr edited and introduced by Amanda Hopkinson
Bright, showing two nude men in a semi-embrace, features the work of an artist
will probably work against its sales in born in Chile in 1941 and raised
women’s bookstores, though the book in Hungary. Mahr has lived in
is fairly equally oriented toward queer London since 1972. Many of the
male and female imagery. Many of images — all black and white
Brassai’s images of lesbians in 1930s — use sharp juxtapositions
Paris are reproduced along with images and fragmented forms. The
photographs are very intellec-
bPyh aLmaur,a CAagtuhilaerr, i nNein a O Lpevieit,t , GHaanyhe T Chih a|n, tual and visually rich, but the
Kaucyila Brooke, and more. There are book will probably be diffi-
strong, lesbian-themed essays by cult to sell given the size (712"
Catherine Lord, Erica Rand, Linda x 81⁄2", 128 pages) and price.
Ditmar, Mary Patten, Elizabeth Stephens, $30 pb, 1-85242- 550-4,
and others. Provocative chapters include Serpents Tail. Distributed
“Looking-Class Heroes: Dykes on Bikes by Consortium.
Cruising Calendar Girls” and “Not Just a Men Defined: Nudes,
Passing Fancy: Notes on Butch.” Especially photographs by Vera
intriguing are the self-portraits of Friederich, offers beauti-
septuagenarian lesbian photographer Rita fully composed, exquisitely
Hammond showcasing her work. $30 pb, reproduced images which treat male bodies the
0-415-14582-1, Routledge. way women’s bodies have traditionally been treated,
Young, beautiful, and talented, Meret as lovely passive objects. This is countered somewhat
Oppenheim (born in 1913) created a definitive surre- by a few silly images at the end of the book (a man
alist object (a fur covered teacup), and participated in with gun pointed at the viewer or another of a man
surrealist exhibitions in Paris in the mid-1930s. Meret sticking out his tongue). $45 c], 3-908161-44-4, Edition
Oppenheim: A Different Retrospective by Bice Stemmle. Distributed by Abbeville. O
Curiger, Jacqueline Burckhardt, Isabel Schulz, and
Werner Hofman. $45 cl, 3-908161-08-0, Edition Poster of Rosa Parks available from Syracuse
Stemmle. Distributed by Abbeville. Cultural Workers (315-474-1132)
January/February 1999 80 Volume 21 Number 5
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
By Richard Labonte erotica for men. And it’s rare for a book with some
A Different Light Bookstores unique quality to appear, but editor Lassell has found
a neat niche with this anthology of men meeting men
It’s year’s end, time for the me-centered column through the old-fashioned personal ad and the new-
— my ten or so favorite fag books of the year, win- fangled online chat world; and an unusually high
nowed down from more than 500 books received at A proportion of the contributions are literate as well as,
Different Light during 1998 that had, for the most well, lignifying. $15 pb, 1-891305-02-6, October,
part, boy-specific intent. The top-100 real-numbers Painted Leaf Press.
list of what did sell from January 1 to December 31, Koolaids: The Art of War by Rabih Alameddine
1998 is on ADL's Web site, (www.adlbooks.com). — An extraordinarily rich debut novel by artist
The faves are in no particular order — they’re all Alameddine, who draws on his Lebanese upbringing,
what I consider musts for a current core gay male his coming to (and out in) America, and his life with
bookshelf. The month of publication in 1998 is noted, AIDS; again, it’s a truly original work, written with
and so is any available information on paper editions passion and wisdom and a sweeping sense of humor
of hardcovers due sometime in 1999. and irony. $23 cl, 0-312-18693-2, March, Picador.
Dry Bones Breathe: Gay Men Creating
Post-AIDS Identities and Cultures by Eric Rofes —
Perhaps one of the most controversial books of the year,
this is longtime activist and thinker Rofes’ lucid take on
how circuit parties, unprotected sex, and a continued Uprising by Randy Boyd — The merit of this
celebration of gay male sexuality must be a vital part of rowdy read lies in its author's vision: he saw a need
any assessment of AIDS near the end of the century; his for a good action-adventure written for the Black as
is a potent, cogent counterpoint to the work of Michel- well as gay reading communities, and when publish-
angelo Signorile and Gabriel Rotello, whose clear ers were cool to the concept, published it himself...
voices come from the other side of the debate. $24.95 and it was number seven on A Different Light's
pb, 1-56023-934-4, April, Harrington Park Press. bestseller list for October/November. Its plot? A
Apples by Frank Browning — Here’s a quirky Prince-type character, a Micheal Jordan-type charac-
delight from the author of Queer Geography and Culture ter and a David Geffen/Barry Diller-type character
of Desire, both excellent studies of contemporary team up to finance a gay vigilante group intent on
American and worldwide communities: a full book on avengng hate crimes fomented by a Jesse
the history, cultivation, and appreciation of apples. Helms-type character, with the twist that the rock
Richly informative as well as splendidly written, its star falls madly in love with the white FBI agent who
juicy pleasure is derived from Browning's own has infiltrated theorganization. $11.95 pb,
half-life (he’s also a National Public Radio commenta- 0-9665333-7-2, October, West Beach Books. Available
tor) as a Virginia gentleman apple-orchard owner. $24 from Alamo Square.
c], 0-86547-537-7, October, Farrar Straus Giroux. Hours: A Novel by Michael Cunningham — The
Men Seeking Men edited by Michael Lassell — most recent work by the author of Golden States,
There’s been quite an explosion in recent years in Home at the End of the World, and Flesh and Blood
Volume 21 Number 5 January/February 1999
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
boosts him from the ranks of pretty good writer to The Empress is a Man: Stories from the Life of
that of way excellent writer. With Virginia Woolf and Jose Sarria by Michael R. Gorman — The personal
her Mrs. Dalloway character as starting point, sure is the political, and the historical, in this anec-
Cunningham weaves stunning strands of three dote-rich as-told-to account of the life of Sarria,
stories together — Woolf's own life and death, a founder of the Imperial Court (subculture of the gay
post-World War II housewife whose secret pleasure male community), and a very early drag artist and
is reading, and a contemporary Greenwich Village activist... He ran for the board of supervisors in San
lesbian whose friends think of her as a Mrs. Francisco way back in 1960 and made a respectable
Dalloway. $22 cl, 0-374-17289-7, November, Farrar showing. $19.95 pb, 1-56023-917-4, June, Harrington
Straus Giroux. Park Press.
Where the Rainbow Ends by Jameson Currier —
There have been a number of novels in the past couple
of years following queer lives from pre-Stonewall to
the mid-90s (Now It’s Time to Say Goodbye by Ethan
Mordden, Like People in History by Felice Picano, Fare- The Burning Plain by Michael Nava — The most
well Symphony by Edmund White, Plays Well With recent of Nava’s Henry Rios series (Little Death,
Others by Allan Gurganus); what makes Currier’s Goldenboy, Hidden Law, Death of Friends) sustains the
first novel special is the intimacy of its telling, its wisdom, passion, and irresistible plotting of his
braiding of the lives of lesbians with the lives of gay series, certainly the best gay-themed mysteries of the
men, and its sense that, after all the pain of dying past decade. Here, Rios is living after the death of his
friends, there’s a future of love and hope. $22 cl, lover and, as always, confronting homophobia with
0-87951-892-8, December, Dutton. the logic of law and the passion of love. $5.99 pb,
Short History of a Prince by Jane Hamilton — 0-553-58085-X, February 99, Bantam.
There’s a subgenre of gay male-focused fiction writ- American Homo: Community and Perversity
ten by women, presumably not gay (Laura Argiri’s by Jeffrey Escoffier — Such a smart book: Escoffier,
God in Flight and Ann Patchett’s The Magician's Assis- founder in the mid-1980s of the late and much-
tant come to mind); here is another, the lamented magazine Out/Look, traces the growth of the
coming-to-terms story of a man with dreams of the gay community from urban subculture to vital,
world of dance who settles, like many, for a mun- vibrant, and still-evolving place at the core (and on
dane but no less rewarding life; it’s my favorite sort the fringes) of contemporary American culture. He
of fiction: work that’s based not on the autobiograph- blends the articulate and the erudite, mixes the cul-
ical, but springs mainly from the imagined, with tural and the political, the personal and the
sturdy research to buttress it. $22 cl, 0-679-45755-0, intellectual with fine style. $17.95 pb, 0-520-20633-9,
April, Random House; $12.95 pb, 0-385-47948-4, University of California Press, September.
Bantam, April 99. Both Feet Planted Firmly on the Ground by
John McNeil — The most recent in Father McNeil’s
ruminations on gays within his (Catholic) church is
part spiritual advisor, part autobiographical journey,
part prognosis for the future of queers of faith. $18 pb,
Tomato Red by Daniel Woodrell — Here’s 0-664-25808-5, August, Washington Square Press.
another straight-authored novel, this one with a rich Savage Love by Dan Savage — Culled from half
and complex, sexually ambiguous character, the a decade of sex-advice columns, this is a book highly
drop-dead gorgeous teenager. He and his trick- heralded and equally hated. Like Rofes, Savage chal-
turning mother and a dead-ended 19-year-old sister lenges the orthodoxy of sex in the midst of the current
live in the Ozark backwoods of West Table, Missouri. age; beyond that, he writes with wicked and smart
With prose as gorgeous as the image conjured of style and has crafted a hugely readable synthesis of
young could-be country queer Jason, this is a fab read. Ann Landers, Isadora Allman, and the campiest of
$20 cl, 0-8050-5577-0, July, Holt. See Gay Lit, page 126.
January/February 1999 82
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
By Laura Quilter /The Exploratorium, CA, and Carol Oates, and many others. $13 tp, 0-380-78621-4.
Heather Whipple/Swarthmore College Library, PA A skillful exploration of culture's impact on iden-
tity, Maureen F. McHugh’s Mission Child is told
Ace from the perspective of a woman whose life is repeat-
Now available in paperback is Rose Daughter by edly shattered and rebuilt. The novella on which this
Robin McKinley. McKinley returns to the story of novel is based (The Cost to Be Wise) was nominated for
Beauty and the Beast twenty years after her first a Hugo award, and the expanded story is even better.
novel, Beauty: A Retelling of the Story, which also $20 cl, 0-380-97456-8.
focused on the tale. “Not as dark as her powerful
Deerskin, Rose Daughter combines McKinley’s skill
with the fantasy, some playfulness with the genre,
and her personal affinity for this story.” —Summer 98
FBN. $5.99 pb, 0-441-00583-7. Bantam Spectra
Eighth in the Anita Blake, Vampire Hunter Linda Nagata’s Vast, the sequel to Deception Well,
series, Blue Moon by Laurell K. Hamilton continues continues the story of the after-effects of an ancient
to build on the fantasy elements in Anita’s life, bring- galactic war which still wreck havoc on the human
ing together vampires, werewolves, wereleopards, civilizations who chance upon them. Handily inter-
necromancy, witches, demons, black magic, magical weaving nanotechnology, bioengineering, virtual
sex, and more (!) for a wild and often bloody romp reality, and alien ecologies, Nagata explores the com-
through the Tennessee woods. Due to the fact (or plex relationships between individual and
despite it?) that her current and former boyfriends community. The opportunities for manipulation,
are a vampire and a werewolf, respectively, Anita storage, and retrieval of virtual identities in
has held on securely to her own very human identity. cyberspace complicate these relationships further
However, when an investigation uncovers pure Evil, still. $5.99 pb, 0-553-57630-5.
the contact sparks her own powers which are quite
closely tied to her preternatural lovers. Anita must
finally confront her self-doubts about her own
humanity and her place on the Good vs. Evil spec- <
trum. $6.99 pb, 0-441-00574-8. Edgewater Press
Flying Cups and Saucers: Gender Explorations
Avon in Science Fiction and Fantasy, edited by Debbie
Black Swan, White Raven edited by Ellen Notkin and The Secret Feminist Cabal brings together
Datlow and Terri Windling is the fourth volume in most of the winning and short-listed short stories
this successful series of retold fairy tales, now out in from the first five years of the James Tiptree, Jr.,
paperback. The collection includes stories by Karen Award. The Tiptree Award recognizes fantasy and
Joy Fowler, Nalo Hopkinson, Nancy Kress, Joyce science fiction that explores and expands gender. $45
Volume 21 Number 5 83 January/February 1999
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
limited edition cl, 0-9629066-9-7; $18 tp, Warner Aspect
0-9629066-8-9. Edgewood Press, PO Box 380264, Fans of Mercedes Lackey and Anne McCaffrey
Cambridge MA 02238; email (bookorders@sf3.org). will enjoy Diplomacy of Wolves, the first volume of a
dark fantasy series from Holly Lisle. Locus describes
HarperPrism Kait Galweigh as “a much put-upon protagonist with
Something of a cross between Joan Slonczewski’s unusual talents” — including shapeshifting and
A Door into Ocean and Kim Stanley Robinson’s Mars diplomacy. Her talents prove necessary in both her
trilogy, Blueheart by Alison Sinclair delves into the quest for an ancient magical artifact and her alterca-
murky ethics of those who wish to terraform the tions with other magical folk vying for power and
water planet Blueheart. Those who struggle to main- prtotepctio,n in 0pre-par4ati4on 6 for- t6he 7 co3min9g 5bat-tle1. $.12 .99 o
tain the planet's ecosystem generate an equally
murky plan to develop a new species of aquatic
humans who can survive in the planet-wide ocean.
$6.50 pb, 0-06-105820-3.
Overlook Press
Bending the Landscape: Science Fiction edited
by Nicola Griffith and Stephen Pagel is the second
volume in the series beginning with the Lambda Older Girls, continued from page 29.
Award-winning collection, Bending the Landscape: Girlhood Journeys is another series from Simon
Fantasy (White Wolf). The series brings together gay & Schuster. $5.99 each pb.
and straight writers to explore gay and lesbian The Herstory series (ages 7-10) by Dorothy and
themes in genre fiction — with varied results, mostly Thomas Hoobler is from Silver Burdett Press. $3.95
successful. The third volume will focus on horror. each pb.
$26.95 cl, 0-87951-856-1.
Historical Novels, Ages 13 and up
° Beloved by Toni Morrison. $12.95 pb,
0-452-28062-1, Plume.
° Betsey Brown by Ntozake Shange. $10 pb,
Pocket Books 0-312-13434-7, Picador USA.
One of Publishers Weekly's Best Books of 1997 and ° Brown Girl], Brown Stones by Paule Marshall.
winner of the Nebula Award for best novel, The Moon $10.95 pb, 1-558611-49-5, The Feminist Press.
and the Sun by Vonda N. McIntyre, is now available in Distributed by Consortium.
mass-market paperback. Set in the court of Louis XIV in ° The Color Purple by Alice Walker. $6.99 pb,
17th-century France, the novel focuses on both a young 0-67-172779-6, Pocket.
woman who fights to practice her “natural philoso- ° My Antonia by Willa Cather. $5.95 pb,
phy” and the mysterious sea monster her brother 0-395-75514-X, Houghton Mifflin.
captured for the king. $6.99 pb, 0-671-56766-7. ° Obasan by Joy Kogawa. $10.95 pb,
0-385-46886-5, Anchor.
Seven Stories Press ° Rumors of Peace by Ella Leffland. $14 pb,
Readers of Octavia Butler's fiction have been 0-06-091301-0, HarperCollins.
eagerly awaiting Parable of the Talents, the sequel to ° The Serpentť’s Gift by Helen Elaine Lee. $12 pb,
Parable of the Sower. Set on a near-future Earth in 0-684-80160-4, Scribner.
which ecological and social deterioration dominate ° Tracks by Louise Erdrich. $13 pb, 0-06-097245-7,
the landscape, the teenage protagonist begins to for- HarperCollins.
mulate a spiritual philosophy, which she believes can ° Their Eyes Were Watching God by Zora Neale
help humanity live in harmony with the world. $24.95 HuHrstona. r$13.p50 epb, r 0-0C6-09o165l0-l8,ins. O
c], 1-888363-81-9.
January/February 1999 84
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Compiled by Teri Mae Rutledge women?” Stores are also invited to host a “Circle”
evening. Innisfree Press is also offering co-op money
Magazine News for store newsletters and promotions (contact
The zany and violent Hothead Paison and her Consortium for co-op requests on these titles). In
droll feline sidekick, Chicken, are back! Hothead January Innisfree will send Feminist Bookstore Net-
Paison, Ishoo #21, came off the press in December. As work members a promo pack, including a poster,
Giant Ass says, it’s “20 pages of fun! Lizards, submission forms for the anthology, a reading group
gambling, Chicken in a basket! And anger, anger, guide, and promotional ideas.
anger!!” Issues are available direct from the Innisfree Press, 136 Roumfort Rd., Philadelphia
publisher and cost $1.92 wholesale, $3.50 retail. PA 19119; 215-247-4085, email (innisfreep@aol.com),
Pre-paid or COD orders only. Giant Ass Publishing, WCebo (nwwswo.inrnistfrieueprmess.c.o m ).— DisTtribMuteRd by
PO Box 1242, Northampton MA 01061; email:
(HeyHothead@aol.com). —TMR
Javelina Books
Innisfree Press The Emperor Has a Body: Body-Politics in the
Innisfree is releasing tenth anniversary editions Between by S. Elise Peebles is a creative and accessi-
of Judith Duerk’s two bestselling books: Circle of ble investigation into the ways Western dualistic
Stones ($13.95 pb, 1-880913-36-4) and its companion
volume, I Sit Listening to the Wind ($13.95 pb,
1-880913-37-2). These books encourage women to
recognize the “ancient feminine” and talk about the
journey that all women share. Circle of Stones is
“indebted to the women who have gone before, sup-
portive of the women who struggle today, and
linked with the women of the future.” I Sit Listening
to the Wind tells women how to balance their mas-
culine yang and feminine yin energies. Innisfree
reports combined sales of over 200,000 for the two
old editions.
Innisfree is inviting feminist booksellers to help
solicit contributions for the third book the series, The
Circle Continues, scheduled for release in 2000. This
anthology will seek to answer the following ques-
tion: “How might your life have been different if,
though every stage of your life...birth, puberty,
adulthood, old age...you had been received, Hothead Paison, Homicidal Lesbian Terrorist
affirmed, and sustained by a ‘circle’ of older, wiser by Diane DiMassa (Giant Ass Publishing)
Volume 21 Number 5 85 January/February 1999
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
At twenty-five, thinking has denigrated us all. The author proposes
Jordan Bryant dethroning the emperor through the use of a model in
w ona s t ha e r i Ls Pin Gg A s tt oar ur. which true healing power lies in the space “between”
At forty, those the currently inequitable opposition of male/female,
dreams a distant mind/body, and human/environment. Advertised
and painful in the Feminist Bookstore Network Catalog. $16.95
— w I — T am m dlme a iim son s tto tar a iy nn c, s l ci n s ea ih n c e a l between vp eb y, ’ s0 - B9 o6 o5 k44 li1 n8 k- ,2 - 2 B. & TA ,v — a a Fi nl ea d mb l ie K n o if se tr n o .m Bo o I kn sg tr oa rm e , N B etP w, o rH ke r - Catalog
herself and the
people she meets
at Catawamteak,
the grand resort
on the coast of Oregon P.I. Cassidy James is back in Kate
iM s a i Dn ie r e cw th ore r e o f s h Ge olf Calloway’s Sixth Sense, another harrowing thriller
-+ ~” Ò w M ~ "... until'she from the bestselling author of First Impressions and
anena v NANCI LITRE meets Gillian Fifth Wheel. Cassidy’s ex-lover, psychologist Maggie
Benson. Carradine, has just witnessed two separate, brutal
Widowed and murders, and the gruesome clues intensify Cassidy’s
left wealthy by a husband “the whole town knew was an fear that the killing has just begun. $11.95 pb,
abusive, philandering bastard,” Gillian comes to Maine in 1-56280-228-3, February.
s p o he fe ea a rr c sc e wh n: ee t weo o tf f - om C ua oa n t w dp a n wi e fac m rge e rt eao e dsaf osk m ,s . ..u .w om pim t eh ne nr ei, t s sso r wa c irp tee hsr h aoa sfp s f o ea c w e a s nu ls im m m a in te sdr a t so if des c Mo au rl td i n A b 's e d ra t on h mc ee a nh tw a ir cit m h D aia wnn n to h old a ft ? f t hr (i Y ee en a Dd h a, , n cn r eo i ,gt h h ai t rn ! t)g I s nm tu o dMr ee na. r t iaW nh na et
First Resort is a meticulous exploration of the growth of Moni Matteson seeks the healing touch that only
the bonds of affection, love, and friendship between another woman can give. She finds it first in her
women. friend Paige Flemming, a star athlete with an
W“A ids o wsh , e N d anid c i w Li it th t le h e cr r e ae ta er sl i e ar cn oo mve pl ls e, t e lT yh i n cr eF di ir be l e a n ud n i vT eh re s e ,Grass u wn rk on teo w Ln o v p e a s it n a tn hd e a B aq lau ne cs et io an na db l e L ef gu at cu yr e o. f M La or vti en . $a 1ls 1o .95 pb,
peoples it with unforgettable individuals, and invites us along 1-56280-229-1, February.
for the emotionally charged ride. First Resort is an Novelist Julia Watts is the award-winning author
extraordinary exploration of friendship between a lesbian and a of Piece of My Heart and Phases of the Moon (”...a
s w htr o ea mi ag e rh nt t s aw n .”do m ma —n e. n L wi Dt ht el oe b ols i rv ec a h hoar n a c Pt ine er is o fu b ere rc mo ,m e me B o ao ru yier s f a Ar ni de rn ed i ans t oo Ruo r, eporter or rem dea rr k ta ob l e k e p epie c e h e ro f c hf ii lc dt ,i o n L. i” l y — eB na ty e r sA r ae a m R arep rio ar gt ee r ) o. f I n con-
venience with her Bugle Boy Jeans-wearing, trust
fund-spending, gay neighbor Ben. The couple suffer
“She captures the physical worlds — of the fairways, the from serious Wedding Bell Blues as they discover the
c — d tl i ou s tb o i th nf ho g eu u mfs iee s sa, h e r l e, vo s ef o s b , f h e t i acg w noh den e f ns tu o hs c wi oi oe shn et a, y t d o ie f c sl h t e ig a nf ra r can ti cec it one e nd r ss— s h i rs p eaa vyn e— d a a l n t w dh th ie t ewh e hm f ap ato cr t ae i dc to i ehn s seia o y l n t h .w k a o e tL er i ptld tls e o seu xt ur aa lg i Oe to y mu . as h $ a1p '1 se .r 9 k B5s e l p la b n i,d s 1 tp - h5it e6f 2 a 8 ll a0l ts - e2 s3o t0f - 5 h c , i o s tm F oep rb iu r cl aus lo a rr ryy o. m h ae nt cer eo-
people use to maintain propriety or to survive. . . . Don't let the from Penny Hayes, beloved author of Country
golf scare you away from this read. Even if putt-putt under the Lights/City Candles and Now and Then. Alone and
w Fii rn sd t m Ril el ss o ri ts oth ffe e rc sl o s mes ot r e y o tu h' all n e av e r le s sc oo nm e i n t o t ea e i nr go u n upd . o Af n de i g ih ft e yen ou, heartbroken in the wilderness that was 19th-century
are a golfer, it may improve your short game.” Nebraska, Keeley Delany has only one desire — to
— N. Boutilier, Lambda Book Report escape this heartless place forever. Only one desire,
that is, until she meets the town’s newest addition —
ODD GIRLS PRESS 1-800-891-0632 beautiful Englishwoman Prudence Jane Morris.
$11.95 pb, 1-56280-232-1, March.
January/February 1999 86
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
It’s no mystery why readers find Janet Melanie Jamieson has been unable to drag herself out
McClellan's Tru North series so realistic: the author of an ever-deepening depression. Her mother
has more than 25 years of experience in law enforce- arranges for her to stay with their former neighbor,
ment. In Chimney Rock Blues, a routine assignment Crys Hewitt, never suspecting that as a teenager,
turns deadly when Kansas City homicide detective Melanie was smitten with the sensuous older woman.
Tru North and the witness she’s sworn to protect $11.95 pb, 1-56280-231-3, March.
become the unwary prey of a pair of deranged cop Naiad books are available from the publisher
killers. $11.95 pb, 1-56280-233-X, March. and Bookpeople, Login/Inbook, Ingram, et al. The
Author of the captivating lesbian romances Gold Naiad Press, P.O. Box 10543, Tallahassee, FL 32302;
Fever and Dream Lover, Australian Lyn Denison 1-800-533-1973. —Naiad Press
warms up the winter with Silver Threads. Since the
unexpected breakup of her six-year relationship, Naiad Video
The Real Ellen Story is an intimate look at Ellen
DeGeneres’ decision to “out” both herself and her
Publisher of the TV sitcom character. Stars Anne Heche, Laura Dern,
Sarah Aldridge Novels eM te cl .,i s s ea t c E . t h Ste rr eid etg e , d aO tep :r a Dh e c eW min bef rr e y 1, 5 . G $i 2n 9a . 9 5G ,e r 5s 2h o n m, in-
T w agh a oe s . f p Si u ir nbs clt i e s h S tea hdr e a n h m o iA tr l ed hr atid sh g a ne b e en 2 no 0v e yl ears u 3te 2s. 3 0Na 2ia ;d P 1r -es 8s, 0 0PO - 5 B 3ox 3 - 1 105 94 73, 3 T . al la —has Nsee a, i aF dL Video
followed by 12 more:
Seal Press
NINA IN THE WILDERNESS (HD) ..... 1997 ..….………….…. $18.00 Another America: Otra America, poetry by
NINA IN THE WILDERNESS ..........………. 1997 e $11.95 Barbara Kingsolver, is available in an audio editon
AMANTHA Veilen 19955. $10.95 read by the author. As the blurb says, “Whether
exploring the intricacies of the human heart, bearing
$10.95 witness to resistance to war and violence, or limning
«$9.95 the moments of grace in daily life, Barbara Kingsolver
a $9.95 s st oa cn ied ts y . ”a s $ 1o 2n .e 9 5 o f a u dth ioe , g 1r -5ea 8t 0 0 5c -h 0r 0o 9n -i 3c ,l e r 8s 2 o mf i nA um tee sr . i c Sa en al
enant $9.95 Press, 3131 Western Ave. #410, Seattle WA 98121;
sass $8.95 206-283-7844. Distributed by PGW. —TMR
se $7.95
Dui $7.95
ALL TRUE LOVERS ..….…....... 1978 ..eeeeeeee: $8.95 The Women’s Press, UK
CYTHEREA'S BREATH 1876 <aprvseer $6.95 In Fat and Proud, Charlotte Cooper articulates
TOTTE siie 1975% $6.95 the rights and demands of fat women. This vibrant
THELATECOMER 002.204 C $6.95 and angry book reclaims the word “fat,” describes
the evolution of the fat rights movement, and insists
on a fat-positive culture as an alternative to hatred.
You can now join the many readers who have This book demonstrates the extent of fatphobia in
welcomed these novels over time and who still cherish society, shows how the fear of being fat oppresses
them in their hearts and on their bookshelves. all women, and how fatphobia encourages discrim-
Visit our website: ination against fat women in healthcare. The book
http://home.switchboard.com/SarahAldridge also challenges the common notion that fatness is
Send for our catalog: A&M Books linked with ill health or eating disorders, and
P.O. Box 283, Rehoboth Beach, DE 19971 • 1-800-489-7662 exposes the dangers of dieting and the cult of thin-
ness. Fat women describe their experiences of
87 January/February 1999
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
discrimination and pain, but also talk about their More Tales of the City brings us more hilarious
affirmations of positive self-image and esteem. Fat “Tales” based on Armistead Maupin’s classic series
and Proud represents a coming to power of the fat set in San Francisco during the 1970s. $99.95, 3 tapes.
rights movement and of the activists involved in it. In High Art Syd (Radha Mitchell), a beautiful
It is a book that challenges stereotypes and changes young assistant editor at a prestigious photography
perceptions, a book that will bring about major magazine, is struggling to further her career. Unex-
change. The Women’s Press, Ltd., 34 Sutton St., pectedly, she discovers that Lucy Berliner (Ally
London EC1V 0DX. Distributed by Trafalgar Sheedy), a once-famous photographer, is living in the
Square, North Pomfret VT 05053; 800-423-4525. apartment above her. Withdrawn from the art world,
—The Women’s Press, U.K. Lucy is reawakened by Syd who offers her the chance
to escape her drug-filled environment and revitalize
her career. Before Syd can assess the moment, she is
drawn into Lucy’s seductive and dangerous mix and
forced to make choices she never imagined. $99.95,
It’s in the Water is set in the small southern 142 minutes.
town of Azalea Springs, where the country club still The rise and fall of literary great Oscar Wilde —
sets the rules. Here, being a member of “The from celebrated London socialite to banished pariah
League” is a must, and only hair dressers and — is unflinchingly detailed in Wilde, a richly-
interior designers are supposed to be gay. A frenzy textured dramatic masterpiece. $99.95, 116 minutes.
breaks out when a tipsy comment starts a rumor —Wolfe Video O
that the local drinking water turns you gay. This
unexpected spark adds fuel to already smoldering
fires as the religious and socially righteous begin to
join forces. The combination becomes the catalyst
for residents who must now face or deny their own
realities in this outrageous comedy with a queer lit- E IN eTthHnISo g FraINphEyLY, DTiEanXeT U BReEllD
tle twist. $29.95, 90 minutes. weaves written texts with the
Wolfe Video is proud to re-release Together voices of women and men
Alone, the triumphant first feature from P.J. whose struggle to protect their
Castellaneta, the creator of Relax It’s Just Sex. sacred sites has been argued
Together Alone is an epic conversation between two in the courts, the Parliament
men who have gone home together for a one night and the media.
stand. Beautifully shot, the film captures the thrill, NGARRINDJERI
bal ei te wna et ei no n t, w a on d m ev nu .l n $er 19ab .9i 5li ,t y 8 7 o f m ia n uc th ea sn .ce encounter WURRUWARRIN is about
In Such A Crime, Skip, the top agent of a band of big issues like the quality of justice enjoyed by
lesbian eco-terrorists, puts her organization in jeop- indigenous peoples and what sort of society we
ardy with her indiscreet sexual behavior. Wounded want to be.
and at risk, she must hide out at a safe house where ISBN 1-875559-71-X $27.95 paper
she is tended to by the beautiful Jenn. Jenn wants a 700pp b&w photos
normal life and one other thing — Skip. From the Published by Spinifex Press
producer of Goodbye Emma Jo. $29.95, 45 minutes. AVAILABLE IN MARCH FROM LPC GROUP
Academy Award-winning short Trevor presents Tel: 1-800-626-4330 Fax: 1-800-334-3892
a touching as well as darkly funny view of a teen- SPINIFEX NEW YORK OFFICE: Tel: 718-351-9599
a a tg n ake dr e ’ s s b r tp a ona t dh be e d t ao a ds “e if vl af ai- rd y ii ns ,”c o t v T re arr ie ny v i. o n r gM . o u c ”ltk ..ie .m ad a ltb ie ty l ty le c h la gas ess m m w ”a ht e —as t T hit e F a hx t: t p7 :1 /8 /- w98 w0 w-4 .s2 p6 i2 n i fK ea xr pls rb ee sr s.g cM om .@ au /a ~o wl.c oo mm en
New York Times. $14.95, 23 minutes.
January/February 1999 88 Volume 21 Number 5
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
By Teri Mae Rutledge In her debut poetry collection, News of Home,
Debra Kang Dean brings us news not only of her
In Bessie Smith, Jackie Kay mixes fact and fic- native Hawai'i, but of the territory of the heart as well.
tion, poetry and prose as she relates the tempestuous The landscapes Kang Dean explores are familiar ones
life of one of the greatest blues singers who ever — family, first loves, departures, and death — but
lived. She chronicles Bessie’s early years of poverty they are made fresh through her insight. News of
in Chattanooga, her time spent with Ma and Pa Home is divided into four sections: “Immigrants,”
Rainey in the Moses Stokes Traveling Show, her “The Corsage,” “Homing Pidgin,” and “Catch and
rapid rise to fame and fortune, her disastrous mar- Release.” The poems in the first three sections center
riage to Jack Gee, her many lesbian affairs, her around Kang Dean’s experience as the daughter of
raucous and wild lifestyle on the road in her famous Korean and Okinawan parents in Hawaiʻi — an out-
yellow Pullman railroad car, her slide from popular- sider by virtue of ancestry, but an insider by virtue of
ity during the depression years, and her eventual birth. The poetry in the final section explores life after
tragic death in a car crash in Clarksdale, Mississippi. leaving Hawai'i and moving to the mainland. Fore-
From the book: “Bessie Smith lived an epic life. Her word by Colette Inez. $12.50 pb, 1-880238-66-7. BOA
life could be painted on a broad canvas. She was big
in stature, size and influence. She was the people. This
ability to write songs, to record songs and perform
songs that touched the heart of everyone who lis-
tened to her is what has kept her alive for so many
years. She was her time. She totally reflects her time.
She had a huge pair of lungs and could fill a massive
hall with her voice.” Bessie Smith is a part of Abso-
lute Press’ Outlines series, which explores the
various ways in which homosexuality has informed
the life and creative work of gay and lesbian artists,
writers, singers, dancers, composers, and actors of
our time. Bessie Smith is one of two woman subjects
so far in the series — there are four other books pro-
filing men — but the book is gorgeous, interspersed
with black and white photos. $9.95 pb,
1-899791-70-1. The Absolute Press, Scarborough
House, 29 James St. West, Bath, Somerset, England
BA1 2BT; 01225-316013, email (sales@absolutepress
.demon.co.uk). Distributed in the U.S. and Canada
by Stewart, Tabori, and Chang, 115 West 18th St., NY
NY 10011.
Volume 21 Number 5 89 January/February 1999
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Editions, 260 East Ave., Rochester NY 14604; strips her language of convention to lay bare the fero-
716-546-3410. Distributed by Consortium. cious rituals of love and need.” As always, Brown’s
latest promises to be edgy, stark, and utterly original.
The incomparable Rebecca Brown is back! Late in $10.95 pb, 0-87286-344-1.
1997, her publisher, HarperCollins, reneged on their Babette Bliss, the modern heroine of Urban Bliss,
contract with Brown (and a long list of other authors, suffers from an unsettling problem: ambivalence. She
both emerging and established) and declined to publish has taken leave from her job with an avant-garde New
her latest book. Since then Brown has decided to pub- York theater to face her dilemmas concerning
lish with City Lights and her new book, The Dogs: A marriage, career, and soul. Should she forgive her
Modern Bestiary, is finally available. The nameless nar- philandering husband, George Harrison, an
rator of The Dogs lives in a studio apartment with a Iowa-raised corporate lawyer with an uncanny
pack of Doberman pinschers. The dogs, led by the cruel, resemblance to Babette's favorite Beatle? Is it time, in
charismatic bitch named Miss Dog, alternate between fact, for her and George to have a baby? Or should she
being brutal attack animals and loyal companions, have an affair? She is thrown into even deeper confu-
between being real and otherworldly. Some chapters sion when her leather-clad therapist decides to give
draw upon the ecstatic and horrifying visions of Chris- up her practice to become a rock star. Wherever
tian mystics, others take place in the landscapes of Babette looks, she finds abandonment. So can she
familiar fairy tales, still others in the banal settings of really desert her theater, at a time when the company
late-night pick-up bars or suburban picnics. The narra- is faced with eviction? To sort things out, she decides
tor uneasily inhabits these worlds until the dogs force to live by herself — only to team up with an unex-
her to take irrevocable action. The New York Times said of pected roommate. Filled with subtle irony and
Rebecca Brown: “A strange and wonderful first-person insight, Urban Bliss takes up age-old problems and
voice emerges from the stories of Rebecca Brown, who sheds a 90s light on them. $9.95 pb, 0-87286-339-5.
_ Where Schools Still
` Fail ður Children
January/February 1999 90
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsCity Lights Books, 261 Columbus Ave., San may be profound love and the ties each has to an
Francisco CA 94133. Distributed by Subterranean unsuspecting lover. In “Archaeology” the remains of
Company, PO Box 160, 265 S. 5th St., Monroe OR a childhood home become the catalyst for the intro-
97456; 800-274-7826. spective examination of changing values. Salt Water
and Other Stories promises to be another excellent
Fresh Tracks: Writing the Western Landscape title from a well-known lesbian/feminist author.
edited by Pamela Banting showcases fifty writers $11.95 pb, 1-55583-486-8.
who journey into the West — a West that’s Aimée and Jaguar by Erica Fischer, translated by
tough-minded and large-spirited, seductive and per- Edna McCown, is out in paperback. HarperCollins
ceptive. This anthology includes essays, memoirs, inexplicably let go of the paperback rights of this
short fiction, poetry, and song lyrics that explore Lambda Award-winning biography, and Alyson
people's connection to the ecology, culture, history, Publications smartly snapped them up. Aimée and
flora, fauna, weather, and terrain of the Canadian Jaguaris the true story of Lily Wust, the wife of a Nazi
West. Don’t be put off by the regional focus — there is officer, and Felice Schragenheim, a Jewish woman liv-
some wonderful work here. Though it includes con- ing underground in Berlin, and the passionate love
tributions from both men and women, the majority affair they shared in the face of danger and death. By
are women — even in the “Cowboyography” section, interviewing Lily Wust and other survivors and
from which comes a fabulous epic poem by Hilary investigating letters and historical records, Fischer
Peach called “Outlaw Girls.” “...and when Honey lit examines the relationship between Lily and Felice
out/on the highway that day/her hair restless with with clear eyes. She has a remarkable lack of senti-
salal/and her skin streaked/with screaming mentality, and in fact is able to refrain from
amanitas/she couldn't stop thinking/about all the expressing her opinions on Lily, Felice, and the affair
other outlaw girls/covered in hornets and until the most interesting chapter (in my opinion), the
sorrow /and as she drove/along that dusty road /she epilogue. $12.95 pb, 1-55583-450-7.
started seeing them/everywhere rolling naked/over Alyson Publications, PO Box 4371, Los Angeles
the heartland.” —from “Outlaw Girls.” $18.95 CA 90078. Distributed by Consortium.
(C$21.95) pb, 1-896095-42-9. Polestar, PO Box 5238,
Station B, Victoria BC, Canada V8R 6N4. Distributed
in the U.S. by Orca Books, PO Box 468, Custer WA
98240; 800-210-5277, email: (orca@pinc.com).
In The Promised Land by Ruhama Veltfort, the
Veteran novelist, Lambda Literary Award- search for a better life by a group of Jewish immi-
winner, and visionary founder of Seal Press, Barbara grants in the mid-1800s becomes the embodiment of
Wilson, presents Salt Water and Other Stories, a bril- the longing — physical, familial, and spiritual —
liant new collection of sensuous tales of women people feel for home. Yitzhak, the son of an orthodox
coming together and drifting apart. Each story is rabbi in the shtels of Poland, flees to the New World
marked by fully realized characterizations, accessible with his young wife, Chana, to escape religious perse-
intellectual themes, and passiónate writing. The title cution and suspicion about his powerful charisma
piece explores the relationship between an American and fervent beliefs. Settling with his followers under
professor and a Swedish-German painter where love the patronage of a wealthy family in the mercantile
may be a delusion, romance, or obsession. In “Is This splendor of golden-age St. Louis, Yitzhak is driven by
Enough for You,” two women are torn between what recurring vision to lead his family and his flock on a
Volume 21 Number 5 91 January/February 1999
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
perilous trek west. It is on this adventure — filled In How to Accommodate Men, Marilyn Krysl
with Indians, settlers, religious zealots, true believers, displays a sardonic knowledge of the world as it is
and all of the dangers and grandeur of the American and a haunting awareness of the world as it could
wilderness — that Yitzhak’s faith is tried and Chana’s be. In her short stories Krysl explores divisions
more pragmatic beliefs are tested against both the between lovers, friends, and countrymen and finds
journey and its resolution. $23.95 cl, 1-57131-022-3. new ways to reestablish broken connections. “Krysl
Milkweed Editions, 430 First Ave. N. Ste. 400, Minne- writes about women who take care of men and get
apolis MN 55401; 612-332-3192. Distributed by PGW. taken for granted in return. She looks at child abuse
from the viewpoint of both male and female chil-
In Extremities Kathe Koja corrodes convention dren, and she explores the different coping
as she elaborates on the fears and fantasies that live in mechanisms that boys and girls develop.” —Library
the dark. Her tales are frantic journeys into the Journal. At times dreamlike and archetypal, at oth-
extremities of existence. “Reminiscent of Poe or ers topical and ironic, Krysi mourns the
Calvino...Koja uses her considerable gift for sensory fragmentaion of the modern world and celebrates
description to real purpose.” —Publishers Weekly. As the compassionate gestures that offer hope. $13.95
the blurb says, “Koja plunges a hypodermic under the pb, 1-56689-076-4. Coffee House Press, 27 North 4th
skin of reality as we know it — and extracts disturb- St., Minneapolis MN 55401; 612-338-0125. Distrib-
ing experiences both natural and otherworldly.” Koja uted by Consortium.
provocatively and urgently weaves the erotic with
the horrible, the mundane with the unthinkable, and The Bride’s House by Dawn Powell, first pub-
creates narratives that challenge conventional per- lished in 1929, is the story of a woman who loves two
ceptions. These stories are seeped with sexuality and men but finds happiness with neither. Sophie is eager
forbidden longings — they violate boundaries for her marriage to Lynn, believing he will be her
between the mortal and the deceased, the sacred and anchor and help her in containing her restless and
the profane, the sane and the unbalanced, human and passionate nature. But then she encounters Jerome
superhuman. $20 cl, 1-56858-122-X. Four Walls Eight and allows herself to be seduced. The novel becomes a
Windows, 39 West 14th St. Rm. 503, NY NY 10011. study of “good” and “bad” as defined by the conven-
Distributed by PGW. tions of time and place — shortly before the turn of
the century in rural Ohio. Dawn Powell's portrait of
Sophie — a woman who is sharply aware of her own
needs and inner conflicts — is a surprisingly modern
one for a novel written nearly 70 years ago. In the
The Village Voice said that Luisa Valenzuela, the introduction, Tim Page suggests that Sophie’s strug-
author of the short story collection Symmetries gle and her ambivalence may have mirrored the
(translated by Margaret Jull Costa), “explores the ter- married Powell's involvement with the playwright
rain where love and violence, erotic pleasure and John Howard Lawson at the time she was writing
death exist perilously close to each other... Valenzuela The Bride’s House. $14 pb, 1-883642-78-7. Steerforth
plays with words, turns them inside out, weaves Press, PO Box 70, South Royalton VT 05068;
them into sensuous webs.” Symmetries captures the 802-763-2808. Distributed by PGW.
absurdity of life. Valenzuela’s view of life captures
the imagination because it is so far from reality: cops Friendship, love, and isolation — both
in Buenos Aires are not afraid of dogs, Latin lovers in self-imposed and involuntary — and the quiet brav-
cafés do make moves in the game of courtship, hotels ery of one woman are at the heart of A Glassful of
in Venice overlook canals. These stories are also sub- Letters by Evelyn Conlon, one of Ireland’s most dis-
tle parables on the art of fiction — they engage both tinctive and energetic voices. Set in the recent past, a
mind and heart. $14.99 pb, 1-85242-543-1, Serpent's period of unprecedented re-examination for Ireland,
Tail/High Risk Books, 4 Blackstock Mews, London the novel follows the lives of a diverse but tightly knit
N4 2BT. Distributed by Consortium. Dublin community. Their interlinked stories reflect
January/February 1999 92
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
the pressures and pleasures generated by rapidly
changing social values. Shifting from narrative to a | Short Talks
chain of lively, intimate correspondences, A Glassful "AVi oed
of Letters is both warm and intelligent. $16.95 pb,
0-85640-618-X. The Blackstaff Press Limited, 3 Lyric sermons. Riddle
Galway Park, Dundonald, Belfast BT16 2AN, North- IS a a e Ae
ern Ireland. Distributed by Dufour Editions, Inc., answers, Short Talks is
Chester Springs PA 19425; 610-458-5005, fax eTlegVia c, ep er cTep ti vie , deroll.
610-458-7103.
collection of poems, first
iI nn St eh ue hih i s Wrt oo idr nui dc a l or mro em sda n Jc se rC ea zl ! aN rmo eM a n onM ta s lt he er r, N Mig a0 l1 in e ip Ebu Nb ul :i tsh ee dd i n y19 92 .
T Ni on wa J u á r oz t n t c e d C ea e r u á t o C w r i t e n s aR b a ug e . e Distr b G D 1-8S 00-805-1083
granddaughter, Teresa Sestos y Abrantes. Refusing to
follow her mother and brother to a luxurious life in Glosas by P.K. Page
Europe, the strongly independent Teresa instead Celebrated poet P.K. Page
joins her grandmother in the underground effort to pays homage to poets as
transport U.S. slaves to freedom across the Rio diverse as D.H. Lawrence,
Grande. When she falls in love with Jorge Sappho, Pablo Neruda,
Montemayor, a young idealist committed to the Dylan Thomas, Mark Strand,
republican cause in Mexico, Teresa finds herself T in 14 ealeg ant , aintericaate
immersed in events on both sides of the border. Soon
Teresa is in the undesirable position of holding infor- EA W E$ T1aN2 .ir9iia5ie
mation that could alter the course of the Civil War —
at the cost of ruining her brother. South Wind Comes
chronicles a volatile time in Texan and Mexican
history, painting a vivid portrait of both the U.S. Civil America, the land of the free, there is always a price to
War and Mexico's continuing struggle for democracy pay for love. $16.95 cl, 1-55885-224-7.
under the leadership of Benito Juárez. $14.95 pb, Also from Piñata is Rina’s Family Secret, the
1-55885-231-X. fourth novel in Gloria Velásquez’ Roosevelt High
From Piñata Books comes The Year of Our Revo- School series, which features a group of students who
lution, in which Judith Oriz Cofer presents a must individually face troubling personal and social
kaleidoscopic vision — reflected in shimmering bits worries such as violence, racial prejudice, and emerg-
of poetry, fiction, fable, and essay — of growing up as ing sexuality (both heterosexual and homosexual). In
seen through the eyes of a young woman known as this honest, emotional novel Velásquez shows us the
both María Elenita and Mary Ellen. As she matures pain and sadness one young woman must confront
and learns of the world outside her home, Mary when she witnesses her abusive stepfather beating
Ellen’s imagination moves from school and Supergirl her mother so badly that her mother must be hospital-
to dreams of rock music, political protest, and first ized. Soon after, her mother allows the stepfather to
love. Oriz Cofer crystallizes what María Elenita’s sad- return home. Rina explodes with anger and flees to
dened Mamá calls “the worst year in the history of the home of her grandmother. Rina seeks to keep her
parents and children...the year of our revolution.” For situation hidden from friends, worries about her two
as the heroines of this book learn about the “secret” younger siblings (still at home), and tries unsuccess-
lives of their parents and other adults, they soon find fully to ease her fears through alcohol, denial, and
that the taste of freedom is not always sweet. In her directionless rage — until, with help, she finds a
season of rebellion, Mary Ellen /María Elenita awak- better way. $9.95 pb, 1-55885-233-6.
ens to sensuality with her “boy-poet” Gerald and the Arte Público Press, University of Houston,
“soldier-boy” Pito. And she finally learns that even in Houston, TX 77204. Distributed by Consortium.
Volume 21 Number 5 93 January/February 1999
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
The Ladies from St. Petersburg: Three
Hot flashes? Night sweats? Novellas by Nina Berberova, translated by Marian
Mood swings? Schwartz, is the fourth book by the Russian writer to
be translated into English. “Berberova (1901-1993)
Not up THIS garden path! grew up before the Russian Revolution, lived
through it, knew everyone, went into exile with the
Free seeds - 7 packages mailed to you when poet Khodasevich, became a luminary in Parisian
you're ready to plant émigré circles, and was judged to be Russia's most
Easy directions for cultivation, important novelist before the advent of
harvest & preparation Nabokov...what a life.” —The Washington Post. The
Ladies from St. Petersburg contains three stories
which chronologically paint a picture of the dawn of
the Russian revolution, the flight from its turmoil,
“If there was ever a and the plight of an exile in a new and foreign place
b u mso ieo d k lo if ft e h , ha t e t r h bc isl a a l r i i swf i ie is td d ! o mth e at WILD GW AO RM DEA NN’S — ex p ea rll i e nof ce . w Ih ni c h th eB e tr ib te lr e o v sa t o rk yn e w th e f r po rm ot a h goer n i sp te s r s ao rn eal
Simple and completely taking a vacation, unaware that their lives are about
practical, empowering to be irrevocably changed. In “Zoya Andreyevna,”
a fn and t af sa ts icc in ba ot oin kg .”. A an elegant, privileged woman in headlong flight,
Christiane Northrup just one train ride ahead of the fighting, falls ill
W Wo ism doe mn’s Bodies, Women’s Jill iCanh r iV sA atni e N B oo Vso .tr r Sa ns aY rdl e s& ea mm io gn rg a n u t n f lar nie dn s d l iy n s st ur ra rn eg ale r s N. e wIn Y“ oT rh ke CB ii tg y , C i at y p” l a ca en that
“Wonderful! Laced is not yet — and may never be — home. $19.95 c|,
with wisdom, creativity 0-8112-1377-3. New Directions, 80 Eighth Ave., NY
and spark....Inspiring as NY 10011. Available from BP.
well as practical.”
HR ero bs ae l m Hea alr iny g fG orl a Wd os mta enr Litera tE ux rc ei t a Sb ei rli it ey s,, cf or lo lem ct s D a tl hk ee y b eA str c h ofiv e D's i a nA em e Wri ic lla in ams’
“A wonderful self-help bold, often hilarious stories of love, sex, death, and
g J Oi uf u rt d Bf yo or d i e Nm s, i o d Orli uf s re i s g e w li vao em sn e fn o.” r the t arh ie e s f a om f i l fy o. r mH ,e r o fv i g cn oe nt vt ee ns t ip onus , h a nb do u n ofd a r si ae ns it — y. b “Aou nnd-
New Century operation worthy of a master spy, a double agent in
i“ sT h pe r e W senis te e d W hom era en i nWay I • • S B p bN a &p w e0 r - / l9 ip6 ne6 er4 f 2 e d4 c r6 t a- w0 •- i 3 n c g o s• l o 3 r f2 r p ocp mo v e* r l i f6 e x 9 3/4 t edh ge y ,h o ju as ge g e o df s f taic tt ei o on f.. . m D ii nan de , aW i ll uli ra cm his n gc o n coju nr se cs i o uu sp n e sa sn
o abp uen n- da ar nm cee .d ” $11.00 includes seeds i Tn i m a e s .c u Slt inu cr ee hof er s p de ee bd u t a n ind 1am 99n 0e s wia i. t” h — TT hh ie s IN s e w ab oY uo tr k the
B N Ao e mo wk a zp oLe no e .ap cfl oe m B Wo id lly ia, m t sh e h aM s i n bd ee, n t h fe o r gSo inu gl, ht eh re oW wo nr l d in, n T oi vm ate i, v e a n td r a dF ia -te,
tion. She also wrote Some Sexual Success Stories Plus
O Rr ad io cr ald e Wr ew edh solesale directly from: Other Stories in Which God Might Choose to Appear and
P.O. Box 68 The Stupefaction. $13.50 pb, 1-56478-197-6. 1-4: 25%,
Mirror Lake, NH 03853 5+: 45%. Dalkey Archive Press, Illinois State Univer-
603-569-4932 sity, Campus Box 4241, Normal IL 61790;
radical@worldpath.net 309-438-7555. Distributed by University of Chicago
Ccarlel d itto l lc-afrrde e orders only Press Distribution Center.
1-888-697-WEED Strong Family Ties: The Tiny Hawkins Story by
Debra Winegarten and Ruthe Winegarten is the
94
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
account of Dr. Tiny Hawkins, who went from picking fertility, education, and employment — and how
cotton to become a successful Dallas businesswoman. these have changed — this book also identifies a
“Itis Dr. Leona ‘Tiny’ Hawkins’ particular distinction range of barriers to women’s equality with men
to be the first African-American of either sex to own across the globe. $22.50 pb, 1-85649-604-X. Zed Books
and operate a nursing home in Texas.... But her Ltd., 175 Fifth Ave., NY NY 10010. Distributed by St.
remarkable life story is an even better reason for read- Martin’s Press.
ing Strong Family Ties, Hawkins’ oral history as
taken down and shaped by Ruthe and Debbie Women Playwrights: The Best Plays of 1997
Winegarten.... She tells the Winegartens of her edited by Marisa Smith includes Analiese by Lynne
hardscrabble early days working as a domestic in Alvarez, Defying Gravity by Jane Anderson, Tatjana in
Dallas, lean times when she subsidized her low pay Color by Julia Jordan, The House of Vernarda Alba by
by developing a sideline in card reading. The future Federico Garcia Lorca, and Escape from Paradise by
doctor of business administration also once threat- Regina Taylor. “The remarkable plays in this volume
ened an abusive white female employer that she have struggled to come to life in a marketplace that is
would ‘cut Mississippi on your ass and dot every “i”.’ still dominated by the masculine aesthetic. And they
Hawkins was equally combative as a business- have succeeded. They are poetic and true. These plays
woman. As she recounts of one reticient lender, ‘I told represent the feminine aesthetic at its highest...”
the bank, “You need to let me have the money in this — Marsha Norman, from the introduction. $19.95 pb,
community just about as bad as I need it. So if you 1-57525-131-0.
don’t let me have it, you may see twelve beds on one Also available: Women Playwrights: The Best
corner and twelve wheelchairs on one corner and six Plays of 1996 edited by Marisa Smith. $19.95 pb,
beds on the other corner. And I'll call Channel 4, 5, 1-57525-111-6.
and 8 and tell them to come out and see how the other Smith and Kraus Inc., PO Box 127, Lyme NH 03768;
half live.” Hawkins got her money.” —D Magazine. 800-895-4331, fax 603-922-3348. Available from B&T.
$19.95 cl, 1-9610340-9-2. 40% Sociosights Press, Box
1662, Austin TX 78767; 512-326-5051, email
(sociosight@aol.com).
One of the most meaningful ways to interrogate Search: A Handbook for Adoptees and
gender is to explore what men and women think and Birthparents, 3rd Edition by Jayne Askin is a refer-
say about local constructions of masculinity and femi- ence book for those searching for their birth parents,
ninity and how these affect their daily lives. Sylvia for those considering a search, or those wishing to
Chant and Cathy McIlwaine, editors of Three Gener- know more about the plight of adoptees and birth
ations, Two Genders, One World: Women and Men parents. While directed to the searcher, this book also
in a Changing Century, draw on surveys using peo- offers the non-searcher insight into the problems and
ple-centered methodology to illuminate these choices that the searcher faces. Search provides list-
constructions. This book demonstrates what gender ings and information that cover a wide range of topics
means to people and how it is perceived to be chang- and issues relating to adoption search. Among them
ing in nine countries — Barbados, Canada, Cyprus, are deciding to search, getting moral support and
Malaysia, New Zealand, Pakistan, the Solomon handling resistance from family and friends, the costs
Islands, St. Vincent, and Zimbabwe. Shedding new of searching, search and support groups, search con-
light on understandings of gender, sexuality, family, sultants, intermediaries, dealing with adoption
Volume 21 Number 5 95 January/February 1999
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
ODYSSEY OF TH
A TRILOGY, BOOK ONE, APOCATASTASIS
Intriguing and exciting. A beacon in the darkness that lifts
the veil to enlightenment from cell consciousness to spirit
consciousness. Illustrates how to be YOUR OWN best seer,
prophet, psychic, spiritual guru, and medical mystic.
TRULY informs and transforms the mysteries and
complexities of life through true stories.
286 pp. ISBN: O- 9659891 -0- 0 Reta $15.00 • Quick Book Publishing
agencies and the courts, reunion registries, finding breast cancer. The novel explores cancer’s impact on
and using various types of records, using computer | her life and her relationships with her two adult
resources to search, and ending the search. It also daughters. Vincent said that the loss of her mother to
includes a searcher’s checklist, sample letters and breast cancer motivated her to write the book. $10.95
forms, print and non-print reference sources, a read- pb, 0-9664515-0-3. Majors Publishing, 717-209 Inde-
ing list of adoption-related books, and a state-by-state | pendence Blvd. Ste. 418, Virginia Beach VA 23455;
listing of addresses and applicable state laws. $24.50 | 757-490-7119.
pb, 1-57356-115-0. Oryx Press, 451 Blackhawk Trail
Ste. 300, Elderidge IA 52748; 800-279-6799, fax The Endometriosis Survival Guide by Margot
800-279-4663. Available from Ingram. Joan Fromer offers hope and help to the more than 15
percent of women who have this condition. This
Shadow Mothers: Stories of Adoption and self-help guide arms women with the information they
Reunion by Linda Back McKay collects the stories of | need to deal with unresponsive doctors, sort through
ten mothers who gave up their newborn children | treatment options, and make informed decisions.
between the 1930s and the 1970s. Often hidden in their Frorner empowers women to take an active role in man-
pregnancy and shamed into silence, these women had aging their condition by providing them with the most
little recourse but to cope alone with their pain and up-to-date medical information. The guide also covers
loss. But the connection to their children never went how the condition is diagnosed, the information needed
away, creating the need for eventually finding and to evaluate treatment options, traditional and alterna-
meeting their lost children. These ten stories chronicle, tive coping strategies, dealing with concerns of
in the women’s own words, their anguish, their loss, infertility, finding a knowledgeable and understanding
and finally their reunion with their children. $14.95 pb, physician, and using new pain management tech-
0-87839-129-0. North Star Press of St. Cloud, Inc., PO | niques. $13.95 pb, 1-57224-152-7. New Harbinger
Box 451, St. Cloud MN 56302; 320-253-1636. Distrib- Publications, 5674 Shattuck Ave., Oakland CA 94609;
uted by Adventure Publications, 800-678-7006, fax | 510-652-0215. Distributed by PGW.
612-689-9039. Available from The Bookmen, Inc.,
612-359-5757, fax 612-341-3065. Coming Back to Life: Practices to Reconnect
Our Lives, Our World by Joanna Macy, author of
Give Me Life by Marie Vincent is the story of a Despair and Personal Power in the Nuclear Age, and
middle-aged woman who discovers that she has Molly Young Brown explores the psychological,
January/February 1999 96 Volume 21 Number 5
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
economic, and social sources that stifle our response investigators. It also tells readers how to extract over-
to the planet's danger signals. The authors, both envi- due money: by getting his credit and financial data,
ronmentalists, maintain that people have the power going after his income and assets (and finding hidden
to heal the world. They offer a program for groups — assets), withholding his wages, dogging him if he
“The Work that Reconnects” — for self-healing and works for cash, slapping a lien on him, seizing his
empowerment. Macy and Brown contend that a assets, or hiring a private collector. Included are
“Great Turning” is gaining momentum today stories of mothers who wouldn't give up, who beat
through the choices of countless individuals and the odds and collected child support. $14.95 pb,
groups. This propulsion of concern into action is, they 0-9606846-3-8. Albion Press, 9701 Twincrest Dr., St.
claim, the greatest movement in human history, and it Louis MO 63126; 888-787-4477. Distributed by the
will save the earth. $16.95 pb, 0-86571-391-X. New Independent Publishers Group.
Society Publishers, PO Box 3064, Stony Creek CT
06405; 203-488-7310. Distributed by Consortium.
More than $40 billion is owed in back child sup-
port nationwide. In Make the Jerk Pay: Tracking The Kid’s Guide to Social Action: How to Solve
Down a Deadbeat Dad and Getting Child Support the Social Problems You Choose — and Turn Creative
Louis Rose and Roy Malone shows women how to do Thinking into Positive Action by Barbara Lewis is
j hu is mt t oh na t . t h T eh e I n tb eo ro nk e t c o av ne dr s o th ho ew r t oo n l if no el l o sw er v h icis e s t r anai dl, track n Ne aw dely r, r Te hv eis e Kd i da ďn dd ’s e Gxp ua idn ed e d is. A “tc hc eo r d lii vn eg li e t sto pR ra alp cth ical civics
search for him using driver’s records, CD-ROMs, book for young adults in print.” Filled with all-new tales
computerized phone listings, directories, people find- of young people who are making positive change by
ers, military locators, data search firms, or making a difference in themselves and in their commu-
by Leona Dixon Cox
claim her own 640 acre ranch.
„“z I N>K W PELOLBox 178 ISBN 0-9 $621.295 7 • 6clo8th 0 ©- 2713 - pp3
7 Dobbins, Ca 95935-0178 Order from Ingram
(530) 692-1581 or Inkwell
inkwell@oro.net
Volume 21 Number 5 97 January/February 1999
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
nities, The Kid’s Guide teaches skills kids need to values — to help bring about the very changes you
identify an issue, devise a plan, gather information and want. $20 pb, 1-890759-03-1. 40%. Chardon Press, PO
allies, and get involved. Includes step-by-step instruc- Box 11607, Berkeley CA 94712; 510-704-8714.
tions, practical information, and a wealth of book,
organization, and Internet resources to demonstrate The Encyclopedia of Women’s History in
how to write letters and press releases, get and give America by Kathryn Cullen-DuPont has been
interviews, make speeches, perform surveys, contact released in paperback and in a new edition. This ref-
and work with government representatives, initiate erence encompasses over 400 years of American
laws, gain representation on local boards and councils, history. $22.50 pb, 0-306-80868-4. 1-4: 20%, 5—20: 40%.
and more. Author Barbara Lewis is a public school DaCapo Press,233 Spring St., NY NY 10013;
teacher who has won numerous awards for her excel- 212-620-8000. Available from all major wholesalers.
lence in writing and teaching and for her students’
projects. $16.95 pb, 0-915793-29-6. Terms start at 40% Divorce Yourself: The National No-Fault
and go up from there. Free Spirit Publishing Inc., 400 Divorce Kit by Daniel Suitarz, Attorney-at-Law, is
First Ave. North, Ste. 616, Minneapolis MN 55401; available in a new edition. This step-by-step guide
612-338-2068, email (help4kids@freespirit.com). Avail- shows how to obtain a legal divorce without hiring a
able from BP, Ingram, The Bookmen, and B&T. lawyer. $24.95 pb, 0-935755-63-2. 1-5: 40%, 6+: 45%.
Nova Publishing Company, 1103 West College St.,
Carbondale IL 62901. Distributed by the National
Book Network: 800-462-6420.
Inspired Philanthropy: Creating a Giving Plan In What Do Dogs Dream? illustrated by Alison
by Tracy Gary and Melissa Kohner is a guide to match Bechdel, author Louise Rafkin considers what dogs
your giving with your values. Gary and Kohner have are really dreaming. Her humor, coupled with the
created a feminist-oriented guide for affecting social detailed illustrations by Bechdel, provide a variety of
change. No matter how much or how little you have entertaining answers to an age-old question. $6.95 cl,
to give, you'll learn how to create a giving plan that 0-8362-6774-5. 50%, min. 6. Andrews McMeel Pub-
will make your charitable giving catalytic. Then, lishing, 4520 Main St., Kansas City MO 64111;
through clear text and substantive exercises, you'll 81m6-932a-6j70o0,r fa x 8w16-9h31-5o01l8. e Asvaailalblee rfrosm. all o
learn how to align your giving with your deepest
Astraea Ciara Publishing Co. 888-291-5202 1971, PO Box 118, Devils Tower WY 82714
January/February 1999 98 Volume 21 Number 5
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
p
tiny AAI I Á
By Mev Miller significant reform period prior to the Civil War.
Amazon Bookstore/ Minneapolis MN This is a complex portrait of antebellum women’s
activism, tracing its changing contours over time.
Mev’s Picks for Black History Month: $18.95 pb, 0-8147-4741-0, NYU Press.**
African-American Pioneers in Anthropology And don’t forget these previously reviewed
edited by Ira Harrison and Faye Harrison probes the titles: The Truth That Never Hurts: Writings on
careers of 13 early African American anthropologists. Race, Gender and Freedom by Barbara Smith. $23 cl,
Using intellectual biographies, the Harrisons detail 0-8135-2573-X, Rutgers University Press. Reviewed in
achievements the anthropologists made despite strug- the September /October 98 FBN.
gles with both latent and blatant racism. There may not Fighting Words: Black Women and the Search
be enough here for women’s stores (only 5 of the 13 for Justice by Patricia Hill Collins. $18.95 pb,
biographies are women), but Zora Neale Hurston, 0-8166-2377-5; $47.95 cl, -2376-7, University of Min-
Caroline Bond Day, and Katherine Dunham are nesota Press. Reviewed in the September/ October
among those studied. $21.95 short discount pb, 98 FBN.
0-252-06736-3, University of Illinois Press. A
From Stumbling Blocks to Stepping Stones: |
The Life Experiences of Fifty Professional African |
American Women by Kathleen Slevin and C. Ray 1
Wingrove does not present biographies of these Mev’s Picks for Women’s History Month:
women; rather, it presents composites of their life What an incredible book! From tree huggers to
experiences to provide an insightful study of African U.N. activists, Women Pioneers for the Environment
American women’s experience in the U.S. From by Mary Joy Breton portrays women from around the
church influence to education, from work environ- world who are leading the struggle to preserve the
ments to experiences of being pioneers and role Earth. It’s an inspiring collection of women finding
models, these are stories of survival and resistance. solutions to overwhelming problems created by
Additionally, this book speaks to a population rarely male-dominated technological societies. Whenever
studied — African American women professionals. you're feeling disheartened by the state of the envi-
$17.50 pb, 0-8147-8100-4, NYU Press.* ronment, pick up this book and get inspired to
The Great Silent Army of Abolitionism: Ordi- mobilize! $26.95 cl, 1-55553-365-5, Northeastern
nary Women in the Antislavery Movement by University Press.*
Julie Roy Jeffrey explores the involvement of ordi- When Abortion Was a Crime: Women, Medi-
nary women — Black and white — in the most cine, and Law in the United States, 1867-1973 by
Leslie Reagan provides a clear and readable history of
Ratings: One and two asterisks are more suited for general abortion in the U.S. Suitable for young women and
stores while three and four would do better in stores with a anyone unfamiliar with how a woman’s right to have
more academic audience. If a title is unrated, it means that I a legal abortion was attained — especially now as
haven't seen the book in order to make an evaluation. abortion doctors are being killed and clinics are
Volume 21 Number 5 99 January/February 1999
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
bombed. $17.95 pb, 0-520-21657-1, University of
California.**
Dedicated civil rights worker or troubled house-
wife? Victim of random violence or government
conspiracy? These are just some of the questions
addressed in From Selma to Sorrow: The Life and
Death of Viola Liuzzo by Mary Stanton. This is the
first full-length biography to examine the controversial
life, murder, and subsequent character assassination of
the only white woman honored at the Civil Rights
Finding Fran M foe rm o Br li aa cl k i n H i sM too rn yt g o Mm oe nr ty h, . A $2l 4ab .9a 5m a c. l , A 0ls -o 8 2 0a 3p -p 2r 0o 4p 5r -i 5a ,t e Uni-
History and Memory in the Lives of Two Women versity of Georgia Press.* Editor's Note: This title was also
Lois W. Banner included in the FB-Net Fall Catalog.
The true story of a lifelong friendship between Banner Hailed by Angela Davis as “a hard-hitting indict-
and her childhood friend, now a devout Sufi Muslim. ment of late-20th-century global capitalism and its
“A tightly focused, illuminating look at women’s lives insidious high-tech partners in crime,” Global
and the many ways in which the personal is indeed Obscenities: Patriarchy, Capitalism, and the Lure of
political.” —Publishers Weekly Cyberfantasy by Zillah Eisenstein tackles important
272 pages • 25 photos • $24.95, cloth global issues. She reflects on issues of community and
NEW THIS FEBRUARY responsibility while asking urgent questions pertain-
ing to democracy and citizenship for women, girls,
Modern Girls, Shining Stars, and marginalized peoples who continue to struggle
the Skies of Tokyo against webs of power. $17.95 pb, 0-8147-2206-7; $50
Five Japanese Women c], -2205-9, NYU Press.”*
Phyllis Birnbaum Now available in paperback: Women Scientists
Fasci n fa ot ri mng t p o o r tt rr aa di it ts i o nof al f Jiv ape a nw eo sem e nn o t iw onh so or fe f u fs ee md i nt io n i tc yo .n- Ji 1n 9 o 4 h 0A n sm b e y Hr oi c pMa k, a ir n gV sa o r l Ueu tm n i e vR e o rI s: ss i i ttS yet r )r ,u ag n(g $ dl 1e 7 s V. 9 o5a ln , u d m0 - eS 8 t 0r I1 Ia l8t :- e 2 g B5i e0e f9s o- 1 rt , eo
“Their longing for happiness and freedom, their pas- Affirmative Action, 1940-1972 by Margaret Rossiter,
sionate and often willful characters, and the divided ($17.95, 0-8018-5711-2, Johns Hopkins University).***
reactions these women inspired in their peers come
alive.” —Kyoko Mori, author of Polite Lies Cornell University Press
240 pages • 5 photos • $24.95, cloth The Madwoman Can't Speak: Or Why Insanity
NOW IN PAPER Is Not Subversive by Marta Caminero-Santangelo
Like Bread on the Seder Plate . offers an alternative explanation for the compelling
Jewish Lesbians and the Transformation of Tradition nature of the figure of the madwoman, allowing a
Rebecca Alpert critical shift from the dangerous, ultimately
224 pages * $16.50 disempowering notions of the subversive potential of
madness. To do so, Caminero-Santangelo considers
Lesbian Desire in the Lyrics of Sappho the writings of Morrison, Welty, Plath, Garcia, Millett,
Jane McIntosh Snyder and others. $14.95 short discount pb, 0-8014-8514-2;
347 pages • $17.50 $39.95 c1, -3514-5.”
Between Men~Between Women: Lesbian and Gay Studies
Lillian Faderman and Larry Gross, editors Indiana University Press
Columbia University Press Of interest: Kate Chopin’s Private Papers edited
__ COUI 0b -y 25 3 -E 3m 311i 2l -y 9 . Toth and Per Seyersted. $49.95 cl,
January/February 1999 00
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFOCIA
Johns Hopkins University Press performance, autobiographical experience, and con-
Of interest to stores with strong theater sections: temporary social issues to illustrate how women’s
Madame La Mort and Other Plays by Rachilde, genres interact with women’s lives. Though driven
translated and edited by Kiki Gounaridou and Frazer by concern for gender, the analysis also considers
Lively. $15.95 pb, 0-8018-5762-7; $35 cl, -5761-9.* race and ethnicity, and motherhood and the mater-
nal body. $17.95 pb, 0-8147-5594-1.**
MIT Press Also of interest: Feminism and Men: Recon-
Unequal Pay for Women and Men: Evidence structing Gender Relations by Steven Schacht and
from the British Birth Cohort Studies by Heather Doris Ewing. $18.50 pb, 0-8147-8084-9; $55 cl,
Joshi and Pierella Paci argues that equal pay will -8077-6.***
change women’s economic status. Though the study
focuses on Britain, the results are of interest to labor Sage Publications
0e -c 2o 62n -o 13m 34i 0s -t 7s , *i *n ** other countries as well. $30 cl, For stores near campuses with strong science
departments, you will want to know about Women
Now available in paperback: Imagining Desire in Science: Meeting Career Challenges edited by
by Mary Kelly. $20, 0-262-61141-4. Reviewed in the Ángela M. Pattatucci. This book offers an innova-
March/April 97 FBN.*** tive examination of the difficulties that women
NYU Press e tn hc eo u fn at ce tr o r si n t ht ah te cs oc nie tn rt ibif ui tc e c to om m thu en i lt oy w, i rn ec pl ru ed si en ng tation
Whiteness is not solely a category of pigmenta- and low retention rate of women in scientific disci-
tion, but also a system through which certain plines. This refreshing book provides an
individuals are granted greater degrees of social understanding of the experiences of women scien-
acceptance than others. This important under- tists expressed in their own words. These stories
standing is one of many observations made in speak to the stereotypes, isolation, and boundaries
Whiteness Visible: The Meaning of Whiteness in so common to contemporary women scientists.
American Literature and Culture by Valeria Babb. They also speak to the women’s many triumphs.
Babb illustrates how being white became synony- This book should be required reading for any
mous with being American and the cost of this woman entering any field of science. $24.50 pb,
notion to a multiracial nation. $17.95 pb, 0-7619-0049-7. All titles short discount; agency plan
0-8147-1312-2; $50 cl, -1302-5.** available.
Women Confront Cancer: Making Medical
History by Choosing Alternative and Comple-
mentary Therapies by Margaret Wooddell and
David Hess combines elements of personal experi-
ence and case stories with medical information and State University of New York (SUNY)
political activism. For women searching a broad Onna Rashiku (Like a Woman): The Diary of a
spectrum of options and wanting to make informed Language Learner in Japan by Karen Ogulnick
choices, this book will be a useful tool. $15.95 pb, offers rich insight into the complex interplay
0-8147-3587-8.* between gender, race, culture, social class, historical
Old Wives’ Tales and Other Women’s Stories experiences, and language learning. Through reflec-
by Tania Modleski examines recent women’s films, tions on her experiences while learning Japanese in
Volume 21 Number 5 101 January/February 1999
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Hiroshima, these writings bridge theories of femi- writings by scientists, technicians, storytellers, and
nism and second-language acquisition. $12.95 pb, visionaries. $20 pb, 0-226-28443-3, February.***
0-7914-3894-5.* New edition: Sexual Politics, Sexual Commu-
For your feminist theory section: Under the Sign nities: The Making of a Homosexual Minority in the
of Hope: Feminist Methodology and Narrative United States, 1940-1970 (Second edition with a new
Interpretation by Leslie R. Bloom. $19.95 pb, preface and afterword) by John D'Emilio. $11.95 pb,
0-7914-3918-6.*** 0-226-14267-1.**
For your literary criticism section: Wandering Now in paperback: Love Between Women:
Heart: The Work and Method of Hayashi Fumiko Early Christian Responses to Female
(Hayashi Fumiko, 1903-1951, was a popular Japanese Homoeroticism by Bernadette Brooten. $19,
writer little-known outside of her country) by 0-226-07592-3. Reviewed in the January 97 FBN.***
Susanna Fessler. $19.95 pb, 0-7914-3908-9.** The Ovary of Eve: Egg and Sperm and Preforma-
Also of interest: Sharing the Light: Representa- tion, Clara Pinto-Correia. $17.50 pb, 0-226-66954-8.
tions of Women and Virtue in Early China by Lisa Reviewed in the January/February 98 FBN.
Raphals. $21.95 pb, 0-7914-3856-2.***
4 University of Georgia Press
l In The Unequal! Hours: Moments of Being in the
| Natural World Linda Underhill voices the essence of
i what her neighbors are trying to preserve in their own
University of California Press backyards, while protesting low-level nuclear waste
I don't know about other stores, but for some dumping near their homes. These are appreciations of
reason, we (at Amazon in Minneapolis) have had a backyard nature — “moments of being” —which reveal
surge of interest in early Christian mystics, especially the extraordinary. $24.95 cl, 0-8203-2040-4.*
Hildegard. Voice of the Living Light: Hildegard of Also of interest: Civil War Stories by Catherine
Bingen and Her World edited by Barbara Newman Clinton retells actual accounts of the war's impact on
adds to the growing number of interesting titles about women and children, Black and white, on both sides of
Hildegard. $19.95 pb, 0-520-21758-6; $48 cl, -20826-9.** the conflict. $14.95 pb, 0-8203-2074-9; $30 cl, -2028-5.**
It’s not very often that fiction comes from
University Presses, so I'm happy to recommend University of Illinois Press
Home and Away by Joanne Meschery. It was praised Of interest: Ecofeminist Literary Criticism: The-
by Jane Howard and Patricia Holt (formerly of the San ory, Interpretation, Pedagogy edited by Greta Gaard
Francisco Chronicle). I was engrossed just a few pages and Patrick Murphy. $19.95 pb, 0-252-06708-8.***
into the story. In an easy conversational style, this
novel portrays a woman at the crossroads of her life at University of Kentucky Press
a time when divisive political issues of the greater Voices of the Resistance: Testimonies of Cuban
world — the Gulf War, abortion, gay rights — and Chilean Women edited and translated by Judy
encroach on her increasingly fragile home life. $13.95 Maloof contains the testimonies of 13 women who
pb, 0-520-21342-4.* fought for human rights and social justice in their
Back in print and now in paperback: Geisha by communities. From active roles in the Cuban Revolu-
Liza Dalby is an intimate look into a unique female tion to grassroots resistance against Pinochet, these
community. $17.95 pb, 0-520-20495-6. women have also worked tirelessly for women’s and
workers’ rights. Finally, these voices — despite
University of Chicago Press attempts to silence them — can now be heard. $27.95
Kindred Nature: Victorian and Edwardian cl, 0-8131-2079-9.
Women Embrace the Living World by Barbara T.
Gates brings to light important science and nature University of Minnesota Press
writing long ignored by literary scholars and histori- Fans of Meridel Le Sueur now have another
ans. The scope of these writings includes naturalist reprinted book to look forward to — North Star
January/February 1999 102
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsp
tinny AAN 1 Á
Country. This regional history explores country stores
and county fairs, labor unions and dusty roads trav-
eled by peddlers and truck drivers, and farms where
families toiled. Written in 1945, this unconventional
history shines an uncommon light on ordinary people
of the Upper Midwest. $15.95 pb, 0-8166-3252-9.*
University of Nebraska Press
First published in 1944, Speaking of Indians by University of New Mexico Press
Ella Deloria provides useful historical and sociologi- For those interested in the growing body of liter-
cal insight into how white notions of progress and ature by Jewish women in Latin America, The Book
success have affected Indian kinship systems. It’s an of Memories by Ana María Shua will be a welcome
important source of information about Dakota addition. This novel humorously explores the history
culture and a classic in its elegant clarity of insight. It’s of a Jewish family in Argentina as seen through the
not particularly focused on women, though. $9.95 pb, eyes of three generations of women. $16.95 pb,
0-8032-6614-6.* 0-8263-1949-1; $32.50 cl, -1948-3.*
And the series continues: Covered Wagon
Women Volume VII: Diaries and Letters from Wayne State University
Western Trails, 1854-1860 edited by Kenneth New edition alert: Jewish Women in Perspective,
Holmes. $14 pb, 0-8032-7296-0.* Second Edition edited by Judith Baskin offers a col-
New edition: So Much to Be Done: Women Set- lection of fully revised and new essays that explore
tlers on the Mining and Ranching Frontier, Second the richness of Jewish women’s history. $19.95 short
Edition edited by Ruth Moynihan, Susan Armitage, discount pb, 0-8143-2713-3. o
Columbia University Press cases involving lesbians. She also considers — and
In Sappho Goes to Law School: Fragments in roundly repudiates — the recent habit of legal theo-
Lesbian Legal Theory award-winning poet and nov- rists to only address lesbians within the narrow
elist Ruthann Robson (A/K/A; Masks) weaves together context of the “alternative” family. $17.50 pb,
concepts taken from traditional legal theory, 0-231-10561-4.***
postmodernism, and queer theory, as well as her own We Don’t Exactly Get the Welcome Wagon: The
personal experience in the courtroom and classroom. Experiences of Gay and Lesbian Adolescents in
Her essays explore the complexities of lesbian iden- Child Welfare Systems by Gerald P. Mallon is a com-
tity and the often disturbing ways in which legal prehensive examination of the experiences of gay and
scholarship approaches lesbianism. She discusses the lesbian youths in the welfare system. Mallon inter-
treatment of lesbian criminal defendants, lesbianism viewed 54 gay and lesbian young people who lived in
and violence, the courts’ tendency to resort to stereo- out-of-home child welfare settings in three cities: Los
types such as the “good lesbian” and the “bad Angeles, New York, and Toronto. Mallon let the
lesbian,” same-sex marriage, pedagogical problems voices of the youths guide the research. Their experi-
in teaching lesbian legal theory, and child custody ences help the reader understand gay and lesbian
Volume 21 Number 5 103 January/February 1999
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
adolescents’ realities in out-of-home child welfare Duke University Press
systems. Also includes solid recommendations to The Worm in the Wheat: Rosalie Evans and
social work practitioners and policy makers about Agrarian Struggle in the Puebla-Tlaxcala Valley of
providing a competent practice for gay and lesbian Mexico, 1906—1927 by Timothy J. Henderson is a tale of
adolescents. $22 pb, 0-231-10455-3.** political intrigue, violence, shifting allegiances, extreme
In Finding Fran: History and Memory in the poverty, and the recalcitrance of one woman. Through
Lives of Two Women Lois W. Banner tracks down her the story of Rosalie Evans, a woman who lost her life
old high school friend, Fran Huneke. Since their girl- defending her Mexican hacienda in defiance of confisca-
hood, Banner had become a feminist, and Huneke had tion decrees, he presents a multileveled interpretation
become a devout Muslim. Finding Fran explores the of the Mexican revolution and the ultimate failure of
struggle for identity in the post-World War II era, the agrarian reform. Henderson claims that it is essential to
spiritual journeys of both women, and the strength of understand the revolutionary process not as a philo-
childhood bonds. $24.95 cl, 0-231-11216-5.* sophical abstraction but as an intimate human drama.
Modern Girls, Shining Stars, the Skies of $18.95 pb, 0-8223-2216-1.**
Tokyo: Five Japanese Women by Phyllis Birnbaum National Manhood by Dana D. Nelson explores
explores the lives and work of five women artists the relationship between gender, race, and nation by
whose lives spanned a century and a half. Through tracing developing ideals of citizenship in the U.S.
the fearlessness of their art and their private lives, from the Revolutionary War through the 1850s. Nel-
these women — two actresses, two writers, and a son points to a cultural momentin which the notion of
painter —influenced the attitudes of their time and white manhood worked to ground, and perhaps even
challenged the status quo. $24.95 cl, 0-231-11356-0.* found, the nation. Nelson exposes the impossibility of
this notion, an ideal which has helped to form racist
and sexist practices. She claims that the white male
standard has both privileged and oppressed white
men who, when they measure themselves against the
Cornell University Press standard, are able to disavow their part in oppression.
Rather than attempting to establish fact or truth $17.95 pb, 0-8223-2149-1.****
in the Senate Judiciary Committee hearings on Clar-
ence Thomas, The American Dream in Black and Harvard University Press
White by Jane Flax looks at the political narrative by A powerful statement by Hazel Carby, a major
which our nation makes sense of itself. The senators’ voice among Black feminists, Race Men holds out the
anxieties about their publicly televised role were evi- hope that by understanding how society relies upon
dent throughout these hearings. Given our conviction affirrnations of masculinity to resolve social and polit-
that we are a nation built on freedom and equality, ical crises, we can learn to transcend those
says Flax, the Senate committee had no choice but to affirmations. Carby rejects the historical assumption
confirm Thomas, thereby validating the cherished that a particular kind of Black male can represent the
belief that with virtue and hard work, even a barefoot race. Since the Civil War a line is continually drawn
boy from Pin Point, Georgia, can transform himself between “good Black men” and “troublesome Black
into a Supreme Court Justice. To have turned him men” that causes harm to all Blacks, but particularly
down would have called into question the very legiti- women since it leaves women out of the picture
macy of our politics and law. To have sympathized entirely. Carby utilizes the writing of W.E.B. Du Bois,
with Anita Hill, seen as having brought “filthy” mate- the career of Paul Robeson, and the movie career of
rial into public view, was impossible. Flax reveals the Danny Glover among many other examples in her
hearings as a dramatic challenge to the American research. $24 cl, 0-674-74558-2.***
political system and an indicator of fissures in the
psychic fabric of contemporary Americans, Black and Rutgers University Press
white, male and female. $25 cl, 0-8014-3575-7.** Pregnant Women on Drugs: Combating Stereo-
types and Stigma by Sheigla Murphy and Marsha
January/February 1999 104
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termse
renvi 1 A
Rosenbaum looks at the lives of pregnant drug users. (and a second volume was not included), every word
Though the effects of drugs on fetuses are widely was de Jesus’ own. Her diary stands on its own here,
reported, there has been little study of mothers. apart from the characterizations of the media, free
Murphy and Rosenbaum interviewed 120 pregnant from editorial manipulation. $20 pb, 0-8135-2570-5.*
or recently delivered drug-using women. They exam- From Midwives to Medicine by Deborah Kuhn
ine how pregnant addicts make choices about drug McGregor examines the development of modern
use, pregnancy, and pre-natal care. To combat the medical treatment of women and the related history
stereotype of the negligent, uncaring, and even of women’s health care since the mid-1800s.
abusive pregnant drug user, the authors seek to McGregor demonstrates how a new medical practice
understand the feelings and motivations of the developed out of the changing patterns and historical
women, themselves. $19 pb, 0-8135-2603-5, experiences of childbirth, as well as out of the context
Febru a Gr oy d.* Gave Us the Right: Conservative Catholic, 0o-f8 1t3h5e- 2 5r7a2c-ia1l. * and social relations of the sexes. $23 pb,
Evangelical Protestant, and Orthodox Jewish A Patchwork Shawl edited by Shamita Das
Women Grapple with Feminism by Christel Dasgupta is a collection of essays by and about South
Manning draws upon Manning’s two years of Asian women living in America who challenge com-
research in Catholic, Jewish, and Protestant commu- monly held stereotypes about the South Asian
nities. Manning looks at how the religious immigrant community. It opens a frank discussion of
communities profiled have been influenced by femi- taboos that have long surrounded sexuality, domestic
nist values and describes the ways in which these violence, and intimacy and encourages women to
women negotiate gender roles at work, religious ser- re-negotiate identity and to organize communal
vices, and at home. She explains how they deal with self-help networks. Each essay brings a new perspec-
the inconsistencies created by their attempts to inte- tive to the intersection of gender, ethnicity, race,
grate feminist and traditionalist norms. She also sexuality, and class. $19 pb, 0-8135-2518-7.**
examines their attitudes toward the feminist move- “Doers of the Word:” African-American
ment, its impact on American culture, and the extent Women, Speakers, and Writers in the North
to which the women seek to resist it. $20 pb. (1830—1880) by Carla L. Peterson explores the cultural
0-8135-2599-3, February.** work of early Black women activists, “doers of the
The Unedited Diaries of Carolina Maria de word,” who traveled in the northeastern and mid-
Jesus edited by Robert M. Levine and José Carlos western states, preaching the gospel, lecturing, and
Sebe Bom Beihy, translated by Nancy P.S. Naro and writing about religious evangelicalism, abolitionism,
Cristina Mehrtens, is the first book to translate and moral reform, temperance, and women’s rights. For
analyze the original and unedited diary entries of the these women, speaking and writing constituted a
Black Brazilian slum dweller who became an interna- form of activism continuous with their social, politi-
tionally bestselling author. De Jesus’ book, Quarto de cal, and cultural work. $20 pb, 0-8135-2514-4,***
Despejo (The Trash Room), told of the harsh life of the Talking Leadership: Conversations with
slums, but also spoke of the author's pride in her Powerful Women edited by Mary S. Hartman tran-
Blackness, her high moral standards, and her patrio- scribes conversations with 13 outstanding women
tism. Many have tried to call into question the “practitioners” of leadership from a variety of fields
authenticity of de Jesus’ book. Recent research shows — from philanthropy to politics, from business to
that, though much of de Jesus’ diaries were deleted academia — who came to the conclusion that the
Volume 21 Number 5 105 January/February 1999
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
world needed to change, and part of the job was up to laughter and love. Lucy Appelbaum, 19, returns to the
them. Regardless of their different backgrounds and home of her youth, her family’s Catskills hotel. She tries
areas of expertise, these women are united in a com- to save this Eden by capitalizing on a wave of nostalgia
mitment to positive change — change that includes for the Borscht Belt and running the hotel as a sort of
improving women’s lives and options. Includes inter- living museum of Yiddish culture. $27.95 cl
views with Patricia Schroeder, bell hooks, Karen 1-56639-657-3.*
Nussbaum, and more. $19 pb, 0-8135-2560-8.* Many new mothers and fathers are surprised at
how they change as individuals and as couples after a
baby is born. Thinking about the Baby: Gender and
Transitions into Parenthood by Susan Walzer is
comprised of interviews with new parents about the
SUNY gendered roles of mother and father. These inter-
Afrikan Mothers: Bearers of Culture, Makers of views explore the tendency for men and women to
Social Change by Nah Dove highlights the integrity experience their transitions into parenthood in differ-
of some Afrikan mothers in the U.S. and the U.K. who ent ways — a pattern that has been linked to marital
have used their own experience as a foundation for stress. The reports of new parents illustrate the power
understanding the impact of cultural imposition on of gendered cultural imagery in shaping how women
their children’s lives. Most of these women have and men think about their roles and negotiate their
placed their children in environments that will parenting arrangements. $16.95 pb, 1-56639-631-X.**
educate them about their cultural roots. $19.95 pb,
0-7914-3882-1.** University of Illinois Press
Paradise Farm, a novel by Brenda Webster, is set Introducing Charlotte Charke: Actress, Author,
in 1929 before the stock market crash. It probes the dis- Enigma edited by Philip E. Baruth is a collection of
integration and rebirth of a wealthy Jewish family at a essays on the 18th-century gender warrior. “Char-
time when the New York art world was in ferment, lotte Charke...has come into her own recently after a
women’s roles were changing, the psychoanalytic long period of scholarly neglect. This absorbing new
movement was flourishing, and Hitler's threat was not collection of essays on her life and ‘mad pranks’
yet realized. $24.50 cl, 0-7914-4099-0, March.* should do much to make her story even better known,
even as it illuminates the raffish, roiling, and often
Teachers College Press uncanny world in which she flourished.” —Terry
Feminist Teaching in Theory and Practice: Situ- Castle (Masquerade and Civilization). $19.95 pb,
0-252-06723-1.***
Classrooms by Becky Ropers-Huilman incorporates
the views revealed in conversations and observations University of Minnesota Press
with 22 teachers to address the multiple factors and Hélène Cixous’ FirstDays of the Year is a cele-
perspectives that contribute to the many forms of bration of beginnings and future possibilities based
feminist teaching. Ropers-Huilman focuses on cir- on necessity and hope. Cixous constantly mediates
cumventing existing structures to create new writing and living, life and death. Her essay-poem is
possibilities for the classroom. She examines power an inner journey across space and time linking the
relations, knowledge negotiations, approaches to dif- “author” to other poets. Cixous continues her exhila-
ference, and language usage through speech and rating rewriting of notions of boundary, self, other,
silence. $21.95 pb, 0-8077-3693-7.*** and author. Like all of Cixous’ profoundly original
works, it leads the reader to a new way of thinking by
Temple University Press disrupting fixed ideas of psychic identity, subjectiv-
Paradise, New York (not to be confused with Para- ity, and language. (The cover design is quite
dise Farm, above) by Eileen Pollack is a novel that aethetically pleasing, as well. A lovely addition to
explores the comforts and complexities of American anyone’s post-Fruedian French feminist collection!)
ethnic identity with a charming commitment to $16.95 pb, 0-8166-2117-9.***
January/February 1999 106 Volume 21 Number 5
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
T
renvi AAI U A
(t
University of Oklahoma Press Madison, Wisconsin. Started 25 years ago, the center
Long before American Indian women’s litera- has not only survived but thrived though some tough
ture achieved its current popularity, the writing of times. In the world of day care, Red Caboose is a special
E. Pauline Johnson (1861-1913) pioneered the field. place, a model for what child care in this country could
A woman of Mohawk-English descent, Johnson and should be: not just babysitting, not just a service to
gained renown for her literary recitals and theatri- working parents, but a benefit for children, families,
cal performances in Canada, England, and the U.S., teachers, and the community at large. Brown’s personal
being billed at the turn of the century as the account explores Red Caboose’s struggles, sorrows, and
“Mohawk Princess.” The Moccasin Maker is a col- triumphs. $22.95 cl, 0-299-15870-5.*
1l 9e tc ht -i co enn t u ro yf I nJ dio ah n n ws oo mn e’s n cs at uo gr hti e s b, e t ww eeh ni c th he depict |E
f aso sr ic mes il a to if o n c . u l It nu r hal e r c o dn at yi ,n u Jit oy h n a sn od n ’s t h te r e ap tr mes es nu tr e s o f of I
Indian themes and her descriptions of nature University Press of Colorado
earned her praise, but critics ignored her vivid por- The Circle Leads Home by Mary Anderson
trayals of women. This collection places her solidly Parks is a novel about Katherine, an American
within the genres of both American Indian fiction Indian whose husband died from a drug overdose.
and women’s fiction. $12.95 pb, 0-8061-3079-2.** Katherine works as a legal secretary to support her-
self and their sons. When she finds herself in an
University of Wisconsin Press abusive relationship, she flees to the reservation she
One of the country’s leading criminologists, left 14 years ago, only to find her people’s tradi-
Mark Fleisher, spent two years with a Kansas City tional tribal values are being challenged by the
gang, the Fremont Hustlers, and met Cara. In Dead moneymaking lure of selling off old-growth timber
End Kids: Gang Girls and the Boys They Know and operating casinos. Environmental and social
Fleisher explores the depravity and humanity in gang concerns force Katherine to become enmeshed in
life as seen through Cara's eyes. Cara's life is a sea of reservation politics. As Katherine explores and
pregnancies and miscarriages, drugs and guns, mini- rediscovers her sense of self, she cements new alli-
mum-wage jobs, abusive boyfriends, and unending ances and realizes that the reservation is her home.
run-ins with police and the juvenile justice system. $22.50 cl, 0-8708-1488-5.*
The book describes in detail the social and economic
pressure on Cara and fellow gang members whose University Press of Virginia
lives were shaped by poverty, family disorganiza- In The Diaries of Charlotte Perkins Gilman,
tion, and parental neglect. Fleisher looks for hope in editor Denise D. Knight makes available a stream-
Cara's life, tries to bring her a brighter future, and lined version of Gilman’s extensive personal diaries
ultimately fails. “Most of society has given up on and journals. Included in this volume are entries
these girls. Mark Fleisher show us why this is a tragic written between 1879 and 1935. These selections illus-
mistake.” —Elizabeth Mehren, national correspon- trate Gilman's development from a restless,
dent, L.A. Times. $24.95 cl, 0-299-15880-2.* high-spirited, and opinionated young woman to a
To write The Good-bye Window: A Year in the mature, internationally known author and lecturer
Life of a Day-Care Center, Harriet Brown spent a year whose words touched thousands as she worked to
observing The Red Caboose Day-Care Center in effect social change. $22.50 pb, 0-8139-1796-4.* O
Volume 21 Number 5 107 January/February 1999
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
This Winter rom Chicago
Respectability and Deviance Whether a Christian Woman Should be
Nineteenth-Century German Women Writers Educated and Other Writings from her
and the Ambiguity of Representation Intellectual Circle
Ruth-Ellen Boetcher Joeres Anna Maria van Schurman
“Unlike women writers in Britain and France or their male counter- Edited and translated by Joyce-L. Irwin
_ parts in Germany, German women writers, with few exceptions, This volume collects the writing of Anna Maria van Schurman
remain unknown beyond their national boundaries. Joeres (1607-1678), advocate and exemplar of women’s education,
investigates the social and cultural predicaments of 19th-century female of aristocratic birth and modest demeanor, and one
German women writers and feminist thought—or the absence of Reformation Europe's most renowned writers defending
of it—in their literary works.— Library Journal, starred review women’ intelligence.
Paper $25.00 Paper $16.00
Women in Culture and Society Sertes The Other Voice in Early Modern Europe
Women’s Science
Learning and Succeeding from the Margins —Now in Paper—
Margaret A. Eisenhart and More Than Victims
Elizabeth Finkel Battered Women, the Syndrome Society, and the Law
“For those seeking to gain a fuller and more expansive under- Donald Alexander Downs
standing of women’s place in the fields of science and engineering, “Comprehensive and compelling. [Downs] demonstrates a
Pth apis e r i s $ 1a 5n .0 0extraordinarily important work.”—Publishers Weekly m imast per lf iu cl a tg era dsp io nf t h de o mcom ep sl tex i c l e g val i o a ln ed n p ch ei lo s cop ah si eca sl . ” i —ssu Aes nnette DeMichele,
Poems and Selected Letters New York Law Journal
Veronica Franco MPa op re ar li t $ y1 7 a.0 n0 d Society Series
Edited and translated by Ann Rosalind Jones
and Margaret F. Rosenthal The Story I Tell Myself
V Bee ar uo tn yic ) a w F ar s a n ac o s i x(w teh eo ns te h -l ci ef ne t ui rs y f e Vat eu nr ee td ia n i n b et ah ue t y ,f i l pm o e tD , a n ag ne drous A H aV ze ent lu r e E .i n B E axi rst nen et sialist Autobiography
protofeminist. This collection captures the frank eroticism “Absorbing and satisfying. . . . Gleefully, the biographer releases
and impressive eloquence that set her apart from the chaste, herself from the demands of her task: ‘I have had enough of
silent woman prescribed by Renaissance gender ideology. twisting. It’s time to swing free.’ Both the life she is living and
Paper $17.00 the book she has written about have earned her the ride. When
The Other Voice in Early Modern Europe you read her tale, I think you'll agree.”—Gertrude Reif Hughes,
Kindred Nature Women’s Review of Books
Paper $17.00
Victorian and Edwardian Women Embrace the Living World
Barbara T. Gates
“Barbara Gates’s illuminating account invites us to rethink the
history and future of distinctly women’s traditions in science
and in nature writing. This is an invaluable resource for students
and scholars, and a good read for everyone.”—Sandra Harding,
author of Whose Science? Whose Knowledge? Thinking from
Women's Lives
Paper $20.00 Visit us at www.press.uchicago.edu
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
m
il.:
IEI- : lal „Al.I
Compiled by Teri Mae Rutledge TRhis e isv ainegrwy, psai.n fu l,— disLturibsinag f icMtion.c”—GKirokuws an
Atlantic Monthly/Grove, distributed by PGW
This Place You Return to Is Home ($24 cl, BDD-Bantam
0-87113-741-0) is a new collection of stories from Cloud Nine by Luanne Rice is “a novel brim-
Kirsty Gunn, the author of Rain and The Keepsake. ming with the beauty and fragility of life.” This is the
Daughter of the River: An Autobiography ($24 cl, story of a woman who unexpectedly triumphs over
0-8021-1637-X) by Hong Ying is a coming-of-age story life-threatening illness and begins to rebuild a faith in
of a young writer in the urban slums of Communist having a future. Marketing includes national print
China. Simultaneously, Grove will also be releasing advertising in Chicago Tribune Books, the New York
Hong Ying’s novel, Summer of Betrayal ($12 pb, Times Book Review, and the San Francisco Chronicle Book
0-8021-3594-3) in paperback. Review, national radio advertising, and an author
tour. $19.95 cl, 0-553-09728-8.
The perfect antidote to the middle of winter is
4il: Bringing a Garden to Life by Carol Williams.Williams
combines “practical wisdom gained in her own back-
New in paper: Ghosts from the Nursery: yard, interwoven with reflections on making a special
Tracing the Roots of Violence ($15 pb, 0-87113-734-8) place that connects us with the natural world.” The
by Robin Karr-Morse and Meredith S. Wiley. “Evi- book is made more appealing with the addition of
dence is building, as Ghosts from the Nursery poems and drawings. $12.95 cl, 0-553-09680-X.
demonstrates, that if we fail to love and nurture our Bantam is releasing three notable hardcover
children...we are not only condemning our children books as trade paperbacks during January and Febru-
to a bleak future but we are destroying the fabric of ary: Rita Will: Memoir of a Literary Rabble-Rouser
our society. This is an eye-opening book.”—Marion by Rita Mae Brown ($13.95, 0-553-09973-6), Baptism
Wright Edelman. On the Outside Looking In: A Year by Fire: The True Story of a Mother Who Finds Faith
inan Inner-City High School ($15 pb, 0-87113-736-4) During Her Daughter's Darkest Hour by Heather
by Cristina Rathbone is “an important and moving Choate Davis ($10.95, 0-553-10645-7), and The Good
work, instructive and eye-opening in the most essen- Death: The New American Search to Reshape the
tial and valuable ways.”—Francine Prose. Wicked End of Life by Marilyn Webb ($15.95, 0-553-09555-2).
Women ($12 pb, 0-87113-737-2) is a collection of All three books will receive national print
stories by Fay Weldon (The Life and Loves of a advertising. — Sylvia Crannell
She-Devil). Jesus Saves ($12 pb, 0-8021-3598-6) by Amazon Books/Minneapolis
Darcey Steinke (Suicide Blonde, Up Through the Water)
is “A grim and often persuasive view of modern sub- BDD-Doubleday
urbia as the outer circle of hell. Steinke brings to her The author of the bestselling The Mistress of
portrait a powerfully dark lyricism, a sharp eye of Spices, Chitra Banerjee Divakaruni, has a new novel,
character, and a seemingly natural gift for metaphor. Sister of My Heart. The story, written in Divakaruni’s
Volume 21 Number 5 109 January/February 1999
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
lush and colorful prose, is about two girls with differ-
Log on and let ent life circumstances but deeply connected hearts —
sexperts Anne “sisters of the heart.” $23.95 cl, 0-385-48950-1.
Semans and Cathy Stopping for Green Lights by Alyce Miller is a
Winks, authors of novel about a young white woman disillusioned by
racism who desperately wants to be Black. Obsessed
the popular 7%e with “the deeper meaning of blackness,” she tries des-
Good Vibrations perately to be accepted as though she were Black by
Guide to Sex, direct her Black friends. A “moving evocation of the potent
you to the best sex desire to fit in and the grander ambition to be extraor-
sites on the World dinary.” $23.95 c], 0-385-48944-7.
Wide Web, as well A Sudden Change of Heart by bestselling author
as the best Barbara Taylor Bradford is the story of the lifelong
resources for f inr gie n ad ds vh ei rp s i to yf at sw o w ew llo m ase n c et leh ba rt a t“ id ne ga l s l i fw e’i st h j o yov ..e .tr hc eom-
sexual health, triumph of the human spirit and the healing power of
education, love.” $24 cl, 0-385-49274-X.
fun, and Survival of the Prettiest: The Science of Beauty
sexploration. by Nancy Etcoff is a “scientific inquiry into the nature
of beauty that challenges The Beauty Myth and
explains the universal fascination with looks along
Darwinian lines.” Etcoff maintains that “fascination
with the human form is universal” and, informed by
“state-of-the-art theories of the human mind from
cognitive science and evolutionary biology,” theo-
i rizes that adherence to bizarre, expensive, painful,
and sometimes dangerous fashions may ensure the
& CATHY Winks survival of our genes. $23.95 cl, 0-385-47854-2.
Described aptly by its title, 1001 Things Everyone
Over 55 Should Know by Constance Schrader contains
“chapters on everything from lifelong learning to glori-
Discover: ous grandparenting, crime prevention to estate
° where to find two hundred of the best planning.” It’s a how-to book (programming your VCR,
sexual entertainment/information sites; using email), a resource guide (contact info for every
organization mentioned), and a health book (preventive
° how to get answers to the questions and prescriptive) that even includes hints on decorative
you can’t ask “Dear Abby”; floor coverings. $14.95 pb, 0-385-48224-8.
° how to meet people with similar interests; Now out in paperback, The Future of Love: The
° how to be a smart online shopper Power of the Soul in Intimate Relationships by
for sexual products; and Daphne Rose Kingma maintains that relationships are
° how to learn about sexual health issues. “often destroyed by an overemphasis on psychology.”
Instead, she suggests that partners relate “on a higher
$15.00 © ISBN 0-06-251548-9 © Paperback level of consciousness, characterized by love and for-
giveness.” $10.95, 0-385-49084-4. — Sylvia Crannell
& HarperSanFrancisco BDD-Dell
A Division of HarperCollinsPublishers In After Long Silence: A Memoir Helen Fremont
http://www.harpercollins.com tells of being raised Roman Catholic in America and
January/February 1999 110 Volume 21 Number
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
n R
Ril. N il T
discovering, as an adult, that her parents were Jews beautician, rock star manager and world traveler,
who survived the Holocaust. It is “a searching inquiry [who] wanders America’s back country, healing
into the meaning of identity, self, and history,” and folks who show up at her revival meetings.... In this
about the “devastating price of hiding the truth,” no novel brimming with ideas, the most constant is the
matter how well meaning the lies are. $24.95 cl, notion of a woman's absolute need to determine for
0-385-33369-2, Delacorte. herself who she is.” —San Francisco Chronicle.
Syndicates columnist Barbara Meltz helps par- Other new titles in the Blue Streak series:
ents understand what their children are feeling but Renaissance ($12 pb, 0-8070-6841-1) by Ruth
not saying in her first book, Put Yourself in Their Forman, a collection of poetry. “Stunning and beau-
Shoes: Understanding How Your Children See the tiful...incantatory language that heals; through
World. $12.95 pb, 0-440-50823-1. references to writers of the Harlem Renaissance, the
Charming Billy, Alice McDermott’s bestselling work builds a bridge for a new generation. These
novel about a charming, funny, and tragic Irish poems acknowledge some painful history, both per-
American eulogized by his friends and family, is now sonal and collective, but they lift us from that pain.”
out in paperback. $12.95 pb, 0-385-33334-X, Delta. —Library Journal. If I Can Cook/You Know God Can
Another book about the Irish experience, In ($12 pb, 0-8070-7241-9) by Ntozake Shange, fore-
Sunshine or in Shadow: Stories by Irish Women word by Vertamae Grosvenor is “A captivating
edited by Kate Cruise O'Brien and Mary Maher is collection of African American food memories,
out in paperback. A collection of 19 stories by mediations, and recipes.” —Miami Herald. Sonia
authors including Maeve Binchy, Kate Cruise Sanchez’s Like the Singing Coming off the Drums:
O'Brien, Mary Morrissy, and Mary Gordon. $12.95 Love Poems ($11 pb, 0-8070-6843-8) is being released
pb, 0-385-33335-8, Delta. — Sylvia Crannell in this series to coincide with the hardcover publica-
tion of her new collection, Shake Loose My Skin:
New and Selected Poems ($22 cl, 0-8070-6850-0).
l “With an unblinking and critical poet's eye, Sonia
Sanchez has been setting her readers straight, telling
the ‘terrible beauty,’ and reflecting images in ways
January brings two releases from Gayl Jones. that simultaneously solicit tears and laughter. For
Mosquito ($28.50 cl, 0-8070-8346-1) is a new novel over 30 years this revolutionary poet has been unde-
about an African American woman truck driver who terred from a path that began in the sixties. She has
becomes increasingly involved in “the new under- not given up the struggle to let her poetry be what
ground railroad,” a sanctuary movement for she refers to as a 'call to arms’ for her people.”
Mexican immigrants. Sojourner Nadine Jane John- —Juanita Johnson-Bailey, Ms.
son (also known as “Mosquito”) challenges the Maroon Arts: Cultural Vitality in the African
reader to understand and accept the importance of Diaspora by anthropologists Sally Price and Richard
self identity and difference in a world that insistently Price is a groundbreaking study which traces tradi-
places limits on individual expression and culture. tions in woodcarvings, textiles, clothing, and jewelry
The Healing ($12 pb, 0-8070-6325-8) is being pub- created by the Maroon people of Suriname and
lished in paperback as part of Beacon’s Blue Streak French Guiana, descendants of rebel slaves who
paperback series, which publishes innovative liter- wrested their freedom from the Dutch after a long
ary writing by womeen of all colors. This book is the guerrilla war. Includes 370 black and white illustra-
story of Harlan Jane Eagleton, “...at various times a tions. $35 cl, 0-8070-8550-2.
Volume 21 Number 5 111 January/February 1999
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
In 1901, Annie Taylor, a destitute 63-year-old whose sexual desires, memories, and experiences are
teacher, was the first person to go over Niagara Falls routinely denied by society: lesbians, survivors of
in a barrel. America didn’t know what to do with a childhood sexual abuse, and HIV-positive women.
mature and self-possessed heroine; Taylor was Drawing on their powerful examples, Tessier offers
rejected and exploited. Ultimately, her act was strategies for reclaiming the whirlwind of erotic
eclipsed by the man who repeated her stunt ten years power and seeing it for what it is — the sacred force
later. Queen of the Mist by Joan Murray is her poi- through which we most deeply touch one another as
gnant, riveting and frue story, told as a poetic human beings. $18 pb, 0-8070-6511-0.
narrative. $20 cl, 0-8070-6852-7. Lost Woods: The Discovered Writing of Rachel
Jane Brox (Here and Nowhere Else: Late Seasons of a Carson edited by Linda Lear is a collection of never
Farm and Its Family) traces the lives and times of her before published writing by Carson, uncovered by
parents and immigrant grandparents in the textile Lear, the author of Rachel Carson: Witness for Nature.
mills and milk farms in the Merrimack Valley of Mas- “Biographer Lear knits together here a number of
sachusetts in Five Thousand Days Like This One: Rachel Carson’s writings — often much more per-
An American Family History. $23 cl, 0-8070-2106-7. sonal, quirky, and searching than her celebrated
In Fighting to Become Americans: Jews, Gen- books — that add meat to her body of literary /scien-
der, and the Anxiety of Assimilation, National tific writing...an engaging glimpse into the breadth of
Jewish Book Award-winning author Riv-Ellen Prell Carson’s curiosity and the fashioning of her public
takes a provocative look at assimilation and the rise of voice as a defender of the environment.” —Kirkus
gender stereotypes among American Jews. $27.50 cl, Reviews. More than 30 years after its initial publica-
0-8070-3632-3 tion, Carson’s Silent Spring still sells 25,000 copies
Now in paper: Restoring Hope: Conversations annually. $24 cl, 0-8070-8546-4. —TMR
on the Future of Black America ($13 pb,
0-8070-0943-1) by Cornel West includes West's conver- ıl:
sations with Maya Angelou, Patricia Williams,
Charlayne Hunter-Gault, and others as they talk about
their political awareness, art and politics, and the pos- Berkley Publishing Group
sibility of hope among African Americans. Short Sandra Lee Jamison’s Finding Your People is a
Fiction by Irish Women Writers ($16 pb, step-by-step genealogical source-finder written for
0-8070-8341-0) edited by Louise DeSalvo, Kathleen African Americans. According to the blurb, “African
Walsh D'Arcy and Katherine Hogan. The Unknown American genealogy presents special challenges; tra-
City: The Lives of Poor and Working-Class Young ditional genealogical sources are harder to navigate
Adults ($20 pb, 0-8070-4113-0, 352 pp) by Michelle and interpret.” This book guides one’s navigation
Fine and Lois Weis is based on interviews with hun- through genealogical sources and offers alternative
dreds of African American, white, and Latino women methods of unlocking the past. Addresses: locating
and men ages 23 to 25 in two large eastern cities. The lineage and pedigree documents, finding slave trade
State of America’s Children: Yearbook 1999, A chronologies, using alternate spellings of common
Report from the Children’s Defense Fund ($18 pb, surnames, interviewing methods, accessing public
0-8070-4199-8), with an introduction by Marion Wright versus “alternate” records, using African-American
Edelman, is an updated edition of this important research sources, organizing family reunions, com-
annual report. —Lisa McGowan pleting pedigree charts and family group sheets, and
Dancing after the Whirlwind by L.J. Tessier using census information. $12 pb, 0-399-52478-9, Feb-
explores how the denial of a sexual self affects a ruary, Pedigree.
woman's spiritual identity and her understanding of Now in paperback: Caucasia by Danzy Senna is a
her place in the world. Tessier traces the deep roots of coming-of-age novel about the daughter of biracial
this denial and separation of sexuality and spiritual- parents ($12.95 pb, 1-57322-716-1, April, Riverhead).
ity in both Western and Eastern religions. She Kathleen Norris’ (author of the bestselling Cloister
examines the experiences of three groups of women Walk) Amazing Grace blends history, theology, story-
January/February 1999 112 Volume 21 Number 5
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
telling etymology, and memoir in her examination of important works including her memoir. In four parts
the Christian faith ($12.95 pb, 1-57322-721-8, April, — “Prisons, Expression, and Resistance,” “Marxism,
Riverhead). Lambs of God by Marele Day, a novel, is Anti-Racism, and Feminism,” “Aesthetics and Cul-
the story of three secluded nuns and the priest that ture,” and “Interviews” — Davis examines
stumbles upon them ($12.95 pb, 1-57322-722-6, April, progressive politics and intellectualism. The intro-
Riverhead). Space: A Memoir by Jesse Lee Kercheval duction tracks the intellectual development of Davis
chronicles the descent of one American family during as one of the leading thinkers of our time. Essential
the 1960s. “...devastatingly honest, relentlessly unsen- reading for anyone concerned about social justice,
pti bm , e n 0-t 4a 2l. 5” - 1 — 66T 8h 3e - X ,N e Fw e b rY uo ar rk y . )T i Am le ics e B Hoo ok ff mR ae nvi ’se w A. n ( g$ e1 l2.95 Mparbxism, , an0d - c6rit3ica1l -ra2ce 0 an3d 6 fe1mi-ni3st . th eo—ry. T $24M.95R
Landing is out in a new trade paper edition ($13 pb,
0-425-16684-8, February). Also released in a new paper Chronicle Books
edition: Red Azalea: A Memoir by Anchee Min ($13 There are two health-related titles from Chroni-
pb, 0-425-14776-2, March). cle this issue: Wise Concoctions: Natural Elixirs and
If You Lived Here, You'd Be Home by Now is the Tonics for Health and Energy by Bonnie Trust Dahan
debut novel from Sandra Tsing Loh, the bestselling with photographs by Rita Maas will fit in if you do
author of Depth Takes a Holiday and Aliens in America. It well with herbal remedy type books. ($16.95 pb,
is the story of Bonwyn and Paul, a couple stranded at a 0-8118-1744-X). The Hypochondriac’s Handbook by
“temporary” stop on their inevitable way to Holly- Wendy Marston is a sequel to her The Paranoid’s Pocket
wood glamour — in a house that is so ugļly, so frayed, Guide. It’s bound in a small, cloth gift-book format;
so...brown, that it’s almost cool. But just as Bohemian the publisher says it provides a humorous look at all
life is wearing painfully thin, their fortunes change, the everyday things that are out to get us while also
catapulting them out of the world of practical prob- giving good advice on how to deal with doctors, etc.
lems and into the world of ethical ones. “Crown ($10.95 cl, 0-8118-1895-0). —Suzanne Corson
Sandra Tsing Loh the acerbic queen of the Crate & Bar- Bodacia's Books/North Berkeley CA
rel crowd — her witty novel stars a parade of
irony-afflicted, insuranceless Gen-Xers who dream of Counterpoint
hitting the big time in L.A. or at least owning a sofa.” A Welcoming Life: The M.F.K Fisher Scrap-
— Vanity Fair. $13 pb, 1-57322-695-5, Riverhead Books. book compiled and annotated by Dominique Gioia is
Daphne Scholinski’s harrowing memoir of being now available in paperback. With food as her meta-
institutionalized for her “inability to iden- phor, Mary Frances Kennedy Fisher wrote
tify as a sexual female” during her high beautifully and wisely about the myriad
school years has been released in paper- | hungers and satisfactions of life in a
back. The Last Time I Wore a Dress has career that extended from the late 1930s
won a Lambda Literary Award and the to` her death in 1992. "$20 pb,
Justice Award from the National Center 1-887178-92-2.
for Lesbian and Gay Rights. $13 pb, M.F.K Fisher: A Life in Letters is
1-57322-696-3, Riverhead Books. —TMR the first publication of Fisher's more than
60 years of correspondence. Selected and
Blackwell compiled by her younger sister, Norah
For three decades, Angela Y. Davis Barr, her longtime secretary, Marsha
has written on feminism, anti-racism, Moran, and a close family friend, Patrick
political philosophy, and liberation ' Moran, these letters reveal Fisher’s life
theology. Her analyses of culture, gender, capital, and through her private communications to
race have profoundly influenced political and social family, friends, and loved ones. “These are superb
thought and contemporary struggles. The Angela Y. letters — long, meaty, intimate, conversational.
Davis Reader edited by Joy James presents inter- You can practically hear her breathing.” —The New
VIeWs, essays, and excerpts from Davis’ most Yorker. $21 pb, 1-887178-93-7. —TMR
Volume 21 Number 5 113 January/February 1999
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Farrar Straus & Giroux almanacs, it stands up to quick consultation, but it is
In America, a novel by Susan Sontag, tells the also great for browsing or more sustained study.
story of Maryna Zalewska, Poland’s greatest actress. Comprising almost two dozen chapters written by
In 1876 she led a group of Poles to California to found experts in the field, this reference source provides a
a Utopian commune. Ultimately the commune failed, broad, multifaceted overview of lesbian and gay his-
but Zalewska remained in America and returned to tory, culture, and communities in the United States.
the stage. The novel is filled with details of early Cali- An extensive bibliography including articles, books,
fornia and the world of the American theater. $25 cl, and, most notably, Internet resources accompanies
0-374-17540-3. each chapter in addition to the sizable general bibliog-
The Curse by Karen Houppert exposes how a rSaphty. at Jthea emnd eofs t he Pborok.e” s $1s00. c l, — 1-5T586M2-35R8-2,
male-dominated industry teaches women to view
their own periods and, by extension, their bodies and
sexuality. The author argues that ads, movies, novels, HarperCollins
and magazines foster a “menstrual etiquette...based Perennial Classics is releasing a new edition of
on secrecy and shame.” $24 cl, 0-374-27366-9. Doris Lessing’s feminist classic, The Golden Note-
To See and See Again by Tara Bahrampour is the book, for Women’s History Month. $14 pb,
story of an exiled Iranian girl who returns as an adult 0-06-093140-X, February, HarperPerennial.
to her homeland. She tells about her early childhood Now in paper: The Antelope Wife by Louise
in Iran, her family’s attempt to lead a Erdrich is “a wonderfully sad, funny, and
working class life in Oregon, and her affecting novel.” —The New York Times. $13
attempts to come to terms as an adult pb, 0-06-093007-1, April, HarperPerennial.
with the world in which she might have These Is My Words: The Diary of
grown up. $24 cl, 0-374-28767-8. Sarah Agnes Prine, 1881-1902 by Nancy
Written by one of the few Black | Groves Turner is a novel about Sarah
members of Mensa, Project Girl by Janet Prine, a woman who comes of age and falls
McDonald is the author's story of grow- in love in the American West. Turner's
ing up in the projects. She succeeds in the | protagonist is inspired by the story of her
world, attending college at Vassar, study- pioneering great-grandmother. The copy
ing in Paris, and attending law school at claims that the novel is perfect for fans of
Cornell, but holds on emotionally to the | Lonesome Dove and Little House on the Prai-
project world in which she grew up. $23 cl, rie, and a reviewer from USA Today
0-374-23757-3. compared Sarah to Scarlett O'Hara. $14
In No Go the Bogeyman, Marina Warner con- pb, 0-06-098751-0, February, ReganBooks.
siders — through an analysis of monsters in myth Loving Chloe by Jo-Ann Mapson is a sequel to
and current culture — the continuing presence and the novel, Hank & Chloe. The copy says: “Thirty-four-
popularity of figures of male terror (ogres, giants, year-old Chloe Morgan is as tough-talking, vulnera-
etc.) in stories, songs, and films and explores reasons ble, and tender as ever, but when she shows up at
for our love/hate relationship with these creatures. Hank Oliver’s doorstep in Arizona, she arrives with
She makes us think about the role of storytelling in more than her dog and horse in tow. She is pregnant
contemporary culture and our reasons for and meth- with Hank's child.” But another man, Navajo legend
ods of perpetuating the bogeyman. $35 cl, Junior Whitebear, interrupts their “first tentative
0-374-22301-7. —Harriet Clare steps into domesticity.” $13 pb, 0-06-093028-4, Febru-
ary, HarperPerennial.
Gale Research TV personality Judge Judy has written a book:
The St. James Press Gay and Lesbian Almanac Beauty Fades, Dumb Is Forever by Judge Judy
edited by Neil Schlager is “not a frothy concoction of Scheindlin. This book is pitched at women “who
trivia, but a comprehensive, substantive volume writ- defer to men, as well as teenage girls who need advice
ten in a scholarly tone throughout. Like the other on building self-esteem.” Judge Judy is doing lots of
January/February 1999 114 Volume 21 Number 5
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
: I
R R
IÉıl. s la „ilI R
national TV appearances to promote this; Lagos, intending to journey to Aburja, the new fed-
HarperCollins claims they have a bestseller on their eral capital. Selected by their “melancholy hostess,”
hands. $22 cl, 0-06-019270-4, February. they range from a wealthy tribal chief to a humble
What to Read by Mickey Pearlman, Ph.D., is a petrol pump attendant. They are united only by their
newly updated version of the guide for book club dissatisfaction with Nigeria's chaotic and corrupt
members. Includes reading lists organized by theme, regime, a concern which is reflected in the widely dif-
tips on starting a reading group, advice on picking fering stories they tell on the journey —bawdy talks,
lists, and the scoop on online/email book clubs. $14 sharp satires, poignant narratives, and moral fables.
pb, 0-06-095313-6, March, HarperPerennial. —TMR Kicking Tongues addresses the themes of
moral/political decadence, female oppression in a
ıl: patriarchal society, and a new age where both men
a0nd- 4wo3m5en- 9co1m2pe0te 0 f-or3 .p ow e—r. T$13M.95 R pb,
HarperSanFrancisco
Anne Seamans and Cathy Winks, co-authors of Henry Holt
The Good Vibrations Guide to Sex, have created an intel- bell hooks has written a new book! Remembered
ll oig oe kn t a, t p tr ho ev o c wa oti rv lde, oa fn d o nt lh ino er o u seg xh : b Te hh ei n Wd- ot mhe a- nsc ’se n Ges uide Rapture: The Writer at Work is a collection of essays
about the process and politics of writing. hooks exam-
dto e s iS ge nx e d o n f o rt h e t h eW e cb u. r iL ouik s e a nth de a G dvV eG n, t u t rh ouis s g wu oid me a ni .s i tn he es pt oh le it i ck si n od fs o cf on fv eo si sc ie os n , t h aa nt d w to hm e e n st a nh dav are d se s t ca rb itli is ch sed,
T seh xe p l oW rae tb i, o n a ,s oa f f f ero sr u m a w f eo ar l t hs a f oe f a dn id v e ra sn io on ny s m —ou s from hh ea rv e r s ee lat t i of nor sh iw p o m toe n p’s u b w lisr hit ii nn gg . a nSh d e s ual cs co e s sw , r i tt he es dab eao tu ht
—h toa r d av n- ic r do t r u ce a a l n p bo o br u en to ig aq nur a e p s i h n y o vf a lf ut eo ar bi n lh eg ig r h t eb o sr y oo usw , r c eb e o r o fo k ot rsi ,c s a el ni xt d -e p r oa v st i iu d tr e ive o es wo asf i t h hn eo atn lh if nei gc t .r i o i Ssn e h e w i n wr i rt f ii i tn c eg t s i o b n aby o b uB y tl a c tBk hla ec w k r o e m w lae ton im o n e( n sc h)o , in p t ar n oa d fs t i wn thg r eiting
education. The Woman’s Guide provides guidelines reader to the writing process as well, and demon-
On privacy and safety, reviews a variety of reputable strates that race, gender, and class can shape one’s
businesses that sell a wide rage of sexual products, relationship to words. $23 cl, 0-8050-5909-1.
and interviews the world’s leading sexperts. $15 pb, Now in paperback: bell hooks’ Wounds of Pas-
0-06- 2 N51 o54 w8- 9 , i n F e b pr au par ey r. : Before the Change: Taking s ai no dn : s eA x u W alir ti yt .i n $g 1 1L .9if 5e , p ba , m 0-e 8m 05o 0ir - 5 7a 7b 2o -u 6t . writing, love,
Charge of Your Perimenopause by Ann Louise Loving Me: A Sisterfriend’s Guide to Being
Gittleman shows women as young as 35 how to take Single and Happy by Claudette Sims was originally
c ra ar le l yo .f t $h 1e 3ir ppe br ,im e 0n -o 0p 6au -s 2e 5 1si 5m 3p 7ly -, 3 ,s a f Fe ely b, r a un ad r yn .a t u -- TMR s ae gl ef s- p su ob ll oi s h Be ld ac ka n wd o mso eld n o tv oe r s t o3 p0 ,0 w00 a i tc inop gi e s f. o rI t a e n mc ao nu r - and
Heinemann a 0p -8p 0r 5e 0c -ia 5t 1e 6 0 t -h 0.e values of a single life. $12.95 pb,
Kicking Tongues by Karen King-Aribisala Dawn Powell: A Biography by Tim Page is the
transposes Chaucer's Canterbury Tales to modern-day first biography of this insightful author, whose works
Nigeria. King-Aribisala’s narrative style blends have enjoyed a revival in the past decade. Born in 1896,
poetry and prose, echoing traditional African story- Powell came to New York City at the age of 21. Though
telling. Forty travelers gather at the Eko Holiday Inn, she remained in the city for the next 47 years, she man-
Volume 21 Number 5 115 January/February 1999
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
aged to maintain the perspective of a “permanent Trespassing by Gwendolyn M. Parker is the
visitor.” This perspective shone through an impressive memoir of a Black professional woman who rose in
body of work: hundreds of short stories and articles, the ranks on Wall Street only to discover that requi-
dozens of poems, at least ten plays, a diary that spans ems and sexism still prevail at the top. This is a
35 years, and 15 novels. Powell lived a troubled life. revealing glimpse into corporate America. “An
Her youth was punctuated by a long series of deaths, important keenly observed work that should be read
disruptions, and petty cruelties, and her adulthood by everyone who is interested in a good story, as well
was colored by alcoholism, health problems, and pov- as by those intrigued by the gripping personal drama
erty. The biography is a both a chronicle of her life and that comes from extending token access to a few black
a celebration of her work. $30 cl, 0-8050-5068-X. professionals and calling that phenomenon ‘integra-
Like a loyal wife, Jenny of Alison Lurie’s The tion.” —Lani Guinier. $12 pb, 0-395-92620-3.
Last Resort has devoted her life to her much older —Harriet Clare
husband, famous writer and naturalist Wilkie
Walker. But one winter, Wilkie is depressed. Jenny
persuades him to visit Key West — the Last Resort. l
But Key West is not called the last resort for nothing
— lives turn upside-down there, and even short-term
visitors can have experiences they never imagined. Journey to Beloved by Oprah Winfrey, photo-
Within weeks of their arrival, Jenny has a part-time graphs by Ken Regan, was published to coincide with
job and is involved with assorted local characters, the release of Beloved, the Johnathan Demme film of
including an ex-beatnik poet and the dramatically Toni Morrison’s Pulitzer Prize-winning novel. Oprah
attractive lesbian manager of a women-only guest was deeply moved by Beloved when it was first pub-
house. Meanwhile, Wilkie is planning suicide and lished in 1988 and was determined to deliver this
trying to avoid the attention of a young female fan. powerful story to film herself. This book is her emo-
Lurie’s first novel in a decade, The Last Resort is a tional account of that experience. The design is posh,
demonstration of Lurie’s talent for high comedy and with lots of gorgeous black and white (with a style-ly
social comment. $22 cl, 0-8050-5866-4. —TMR subtle sepia duotone) photos, translucent pages in the
title-page section, and nice textual layout. $40 cl,
Houghton Mifflin 0-7868-6458-3.
In More Bread or I'll Appear by Emer Martin, Despite four decades in the spotlight, Gladys
four sisters in an Irish family set off to find the missing Knight has never shared the private details of her life
fifth, their mother’s favorite. After many questionable until now in Between Each Line of Pain and Glory.
adventures, an uncertain reunion, and a betrayal, the Gladys has faced racism, sexual assault, addiction
youngest daughter is forced to question the familial and recovery, and the struggle to break free from dis-
attachments that have always driven her. $23 cl, appointing relationships. She has prevailed with her
0-395-91871-5. heart, soul, and humor intact. “In the tradition of
Imani All Mine by Connie Porter is the story of Billie Holiday’s Lady Sings the Blues and Tina Turner's
Tasha, 14 years old and the unwed mother of a baby I, Tina comes this thoughtful memoir.” —Publishers
girl, Imani, whose name means “faith.” Tasha is a Weekly. $12.95 pb, 0-7868-8371-5.
remarkable character, street-smart and hopeful. The Gale Warner was diagnosed with lymphoma at
reader, too, is left feeling wiser and hopeful. $23 cl, age 30. As an award-winning poet and journalist,
0-395-83808-8. Warner originally hoped to write the story of her
Jubilee by Margaret Walker is a memorable story recovery. Over the next 13 months, she dedicated her-
of a family freed from slavery after the Civil War who self to writing in her journal, expressing her
try to make a home for themselves in a hostile white well-earned wisdom about being fully alive. In
world. Vyry is a heroine to be reckoned with, but one Dancing at the Edge of Life, she describes her quest
can't miss the fact that her struggle is still going on in for spiritual strength as she wins against the tumor
America today. $8.95 pb, 0-395-92495-2, reissue. several times, only to face a stronger tumor growing
January/February 1999 116 Volume 21 Number 5
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
back after each victory. As she mobilizes her determi- only when the judge’s fines cut seriously into the city
nation, she shares her contradictory struggle to hang budget. Belkin continues her reportage after the judi-
on to life, even while letting go of her attachment toit. cial fight is over and the newcomers have moved. She
Interwoven throughout are her unflinching descrip- tells stories from both sides and ponders the fate of a
tions of her treatment and her quiet, poignant daily “nation whose people preach diversity but are most
reflections. Three days before her death, she handed comfortable when surrounded by others like them-
her husband the 1000-page journal. His edits shaped selves.” $25 cl, 0-316-08805-6, March.
Dancing at the Edge of Life, the essence of a most Now in paperback: The Boys of My Youth by Jo
exceptional, sensitive, and passionate soul. Her work Ann Beard is a book of autobiographical essays by the
is a moving and compelling testament to the human awFard-ewibnninrg nuew a wrritery. $1.3 p b, — 0-316-T0852M5-1,R
spirit. $22.95 cl, 0-7868-6392-7.
In I'm Not As Old As I Used to Be, Frances Weaver
shares her journey of growing older — from coping Penguin
with widowhood to making peace with life's inevitable Coming, Aphrodite! and Other Stories by Willa
changes — and offers practical solutions and enlight- Cather, edited by Margaret Anne O'Conner, is a
ened advice about the importance of acceptance and group of stories set in small-town Nebraska. Colored
forging ahead. $10.95 pb, 0-7868-8325-1. —TMR by rumors, history, and small-town folklore, the col-
lection attests to Cather’s place in American literature
Little, Brown ($12.95 pb, 0-14-118156-7). Penguin is also issuing a
In the New York Times Book Review, Carol Shields new edition of Cather’s A Lost Lady ($8.95 pb,
called Snake by Kate Jennings “stunning... 0-14-118131-1).
clearly the work of a powerful imagination.” Rosa Parks: My Story by Rosa
This debut novel is intense and quick-witted, Parks with Jim Haskins is the story
chronicling the marriage of Irene and Rex and of the woman who wouldn't give up
their subsequent move to an Australian farm. her seat on a segregated bus in Mont-
They raise two children, Irene tends her gar- gomery, Alabama. Naturally, there is
den and wrestles with her fate, and Rex is much more to Rosa Parks than her
silent. Their marriage unravels, as the copy famous act of defiance. Here, Parks
says, “inexorably, bitterly, spectacularly.” talks about the Civil Rights movement
$12 pb, 0-316-91258-1. and her role within it. Ages 10 and up.
If your customers bought A Map of the $4.99 pb, 0-14-130120-1.
World, steer them toward Evening News Bayou Folk and A Nightin Acadie
by Marly Swick. In this novel, nine- by Kate Chopin, brings together two
year-old Teddy accidentally shoots and early short story collections by the author
kills his half-sister Trina with a gun of The Awakening (1899). These stories
handed to him by his best friend. Teddy's stepfather about 19th-century people in New
is unable to forgive his stepson. Teddy's mother is Orleans and the Natchitoches parish form, as the
wondering where her “unconditional” maternal love blurb says, “a sort of Southern novel of manners.”
is. Swick examines this family devastated by loss and $11.95 pb, 0-14-043681-2, March.
asks: What would you do? How would you forgive? New edition: The Penguin Book of Modern
Who do you love more? A wrenching novel exploring African Poetry edited by Gerald Moore and Ulli Beier
loss and the delicate structure of stepfamilies. $23 c|, is in its fourth edition. This volume contains work by
0-316-82533-6, February. 99 poets, 31 of them in print for the first time, from 27
Show Me a Hero by Lisa Belkin follows the city countries. $15.95 pb, 0-14-118100-1, February.
of Yonkers, New York, after the order of a judge that Now in paperback: Maureen Howard’s novel, A
d mic inta ot re is t y t h re e s im deo nv te s o ef a s th u tn od r te hd es wof h i tY eo n mke idr ds’ l e -p co lo asr s, side oL fo v e sr u' cs h A glm ora gn ea oc u, s i s p r “ ob pr oa rz te in only a sin t te ol l ig me an kt e.. . y W our i t gi an sg p.”
Of town. The eastsiders fight the order, capitulating —The Boston Sunday Globe. ($12.95 pb,
Volume 21 Number 5 117 January/February 1999
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
0-14-027512-6.) Prince Charming Isn't Coming: preE andl epostm-invasioen. $n14.95t pb., 1-8 620T4-361M-2, R
How Women Get Smart about Money by Barbara
Stanny guides women to be confident about money
($12.95 pb, 0-14-026693-3). Penguin picked up the pb Plume
rights from Soho of Anne Landsman’s The Devil's Big news in Plume paperback land! Plume is
Chimney, a novel set in South Africa about a poor releasing the paperback edition of Toni Morrison’s
white woman ($12.95 pb, 0-14-027746-3). Nobel Paradise. Order by the boxful. $12.95 pb,
prize-winner Nadine Gordimer’s The House Gun is 0-452-20839-7, April.
“elegantly conceived, flawlessly executed...a love And more news: Julia Dash’s Daughters of the
story unlike any other I have ever read.” —The New Dust is also releasing in paperback. Based on her film
York Times Book Review. ($12.95 pb, 0-14-027820-6.) of the same name, the novel chronicles the lives of the
Straight, No Chaser: How I Became a Grown-Up Peazant family, part of the Gullah people in the 1920s
Black Woman by Jill Nelson (author of Volunteer Carolina coastal islands. Dash’s use of language is as
Slavery) addresses the, as she says, “two most lush and vivid as her cinematic vision. $13.95 pb,
loathed groups in America,” those who are Black, 0-452-27607-1, February.
and those who are female ($12.95 pb, 0-399-14262-2, Capitalizing on the current popularity of Irish
February). Café Europa: Life after Communism by childhood memoirs, Plume is reissuing Mother Ire-
Slavenka Drakulic observes the effects of capitalism land: A Memoir by Edna O’Brien, which has long
on a divided Europe ($12.95 pb, 0-14-027772-2, Feb- been out of print. O'Brien weaves her own history
ruary). Jacquelyn Mitchard’s The Rest of Us: with the history of Ireland. The blurb says that
Dispatches from the Mother Ship is the best of “Mother Ireland is an ode to a time, a
her nationally syndicated-column from place, and a people that one can leave, but
the . past decade ($12.95 pb, never leave behind.” $11.95 pb,
0-14-027497-9, March). A Century of 0-452-28050-8, March.
Women: The History of Women in Brit- Leaving Deep Water: Asian Ameri-
ain and the United States in the can Women at the Crossroads of Two
Twentieth Century by Shelia Cultures by Claire S. Chow examines
Rowbotham charts the ways which how Asian American Women have inte-
women have shaped history since 1900 grated their ethnic identity with
($16.95 pb, 0-14-023282-6, March). mainstream American culture. Chow
Lillian Too’s Little Book of Feng Shui examines coming of age, parental
introduces readers to Feng Shui. It offers tips expectations, marriage, divorce,
on promoting health, wealth, love, fame, and career, family, and aging. $13.95 pb,
happiness, as well as revealing “the Chinese 0-452-28049-4, March.
secrets for living in tune with the environment Double Delight by Joyce Carol
and tapping auspicious chi.” $4.95 pb, Oates writing as Rosamond Smith is
0-86204-514-3, Element. Distributed by the latest psychological suspense
Penguin Putnam. novel from prolific and acclaimed Oates/Smith.
Reading to Heal: How to Use Bibliotherapy to $12.95 pb, 0-452-28041-9, March.
Improve Your Life by Jacqueline Stanley purports to Cherishing Our Daughters: How Parents Can
be a self-help guide to assessing self-help books. I Raise Girls to Become Confident Women by Evelyn
suppose, with the enormous amount of self-help Bassoff, Ph.D., offers parents the help and skills they
books in print today, that I shouldn't be surprised (or need to raise daughters who are able to achieve, com-
amused) at Reading to Heal’s publication. (But I am!) pete, and succeed. The book addresses all types of
$24.95 cl, 1-86204-390-6, March, Element. parents, including gay and lesbian couples, fathers,
Now in paperback: Tibet: My Story an autobi- mothers, and single parents. Mary Pipher, the author
ography by Jetsun Pema, foreword by Eli Weisel, is of Reviving Ophelia, gave it a positive blurb. $13.95 pb,
the story of the sister of the Dalai Lama and of Tibet, 0-452-27472-9, February.
January/February 1999 118 Volume 21 Number’
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
A a l z
LNH siil H
Return of the Primitive: The Anti-Industrial Random House
Revolution by Ayn Rand, edited with an introduc- The Things We Do to Make It Home ($22.95 cl,
tion and additional essays by Peter Schwartz, is a 0-375-50201-7) by Beverly Gologorsky is a first novel
reprint of Rand’s 1971 bestseller, The New Left. about the effects, both immediate and long-term, of
Schwartz has added essays of his own to underscore the Vietnam War on the lives of the women and chil-
the continuing relevance of Rand’s analysis of the 60s dren of the men who fought there. Gologorsky has
and 70s. He claims that current ideologies like envi- been an activist in both the women’s and peace move-
ronmentalism and multiculturalism are being ments. The Handyman by Carolyn See is described
influenced by an “anti-industrial” mentality, the by the publisher as “reminiscent of the best of Anne
same mentality that fueled the New Left a generation Tyler for its compassion and humor...[and] a breath-
ago. $14.95 pb, 0-452-01184-1. takingly visual novel about the surprises of destiny
More Ayn Rand: The Ayn Rand Reader by Ayn and the origin of fame.” See is the author of Dreaming:
Rand, edited by Gary Hull and Leonard Peikoff fea- Hard Luck and Good Times in America, Making History,
tures exerpts from both Rand’s novels and her and Golden Days ($22.95 cl, 0-375-50155-X). Best
nonfiction. The first-ever Ayn Rand primer — a med- known for her television mini-series Prime Suspect,
ley of Ayn Rand. (Hope you like her: it’s over 500 Lynda La Plante is also the author of crime stories fea-
pages long.) $16.95 pb, 0-452-28040-0. turing P.I. Lorraine Page: Cold Blood, Cold Shoulder,
Now in paperback: Eccentric Neighborhoods by and now Cold Heart ($24.95 cl, 0-375-50004-9).
Rosario Ferré is, as the blurb says, “a tale of two fami- —Lisa McGowan
lies whose histories, tangled love affairs, and dreams Girlfriend: Men, Women, and Drag by Holly
of power and glory are inextricably linked to the for- Brubach. Will this very pricey book sell? I don’t know,
t0un-es4: 5an2d'-fa2te8"of0 6Pu4er-to8 .R ic o—:"$12T.95M pRb, but the write-up sounds fascinating and we certainly
have folks who are interested in drag. This book is
more about drag around the world, with lots of pho-
ıl: tos, so that is why it is so expensive. $39.95 cl,
l 0-679-41443-6, February.
Putnam releas inB get t iy n F Wri oe mda en n, ’ s H Her is t oL rif ye Mby on tJ hu ,d i ot fh cH oe un rn see ,ssee,
Patricia Cromwell, author of the New York Times offers an in-depth look at this renowned leader of the
bestseller Hornet's Nest, once again casts her shrewd women’s movement. $26.95 cl, 0-67943203-5, March.
and knowing eye at the stormy center of a big-city —Linda Bryant
police force in Southern Cross. Charlotte, North Charis Books/Atlanta GA
Carolina, Police Chief Judy Hammer travels to Rich-
mond, Virginia, on a NIJ grant to clean up the police Random House AudioBooks
force. Reeling from the recent death of her husband The Maya Angelou Poetry Collection contains
and resented by the police force, city manager, and more than 100 of Maya Angelou’s poems, performed
mayor of Richmond, Hammer is joined by her deputy by the author. The four tapes in this collection, Just
chief Virginia West and rookie Andy Brazil on the Give Me A Cool Drink of Water ‘Fore I Die, I Shall Not Be
most difficult assignment of her career. In face of Moved, Oh Pray My Wings Are Gonna Fit Me Well, On
overwhelming public scrutiny, the trio must bring the Pulse of Morning, are also available individually.
tr0ut-h, 3 or9der9, -an1d 4san4ity6 t5o a- cXity . i n t—roublTe. $M25.95R cl, h$19.o95,u 4 r cassse.t te s; — 0-375L-40i5s96a-8, a ppMroxicmaGtelyo 2wan
Volume 21 Number 5 119 January/February 1999
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
RH-Crown book, Kenan traveled around the country talking to
A Defiant Life: Thurgood Marshall and the Per- people: an Air Force major whose father was lynched,
sistence of Racism in America ($30 cl, 0-517-59931-7) an octogenarian farm woman, a 12-year-old girl in a
by Howard Ball argues that Marshall’s success as a racist classroom, a woman judge in skinhead country,
lawyer and jurist turned on the many instances of rac- a Republican congressman from Alaska and many
ism he experienced and fought against. My Life As a others. He offers a wide range of experience in Black
List: 207 Things about My Bronx Childhood ($15 cl, American life today.
0-609-60367-1; 96 pp, Clarkson Potter) by Linda In March: The Art of Blessing the Day: Poems
Rosenkrantz is a memoir of the author's experience with a Jewish Theme ($23 cl, 0-375-40477-5) by
growing up in a post-Depression Jewish Bronx neigh- Marge Piercy releases. For the Time Being ($22 c|,
borhood, told through vignettes. Includes 45 black 0-375-40380-9) by Annie Dillard is a personal narra-
and white photographs. —Lisa McGowan tive reminiscent of her Pilgrim at Tinker Creek. Vittorio
In The Calling: A Year in the Life of an Order of the Vampire ($19.95 cl, 0-375-40160-1) by Anne Rice is
Nuns, Catherine Whitney, a laywoman spends time the second in her New Tales of the Vampires series.
in a convent, observing, sharing life, hearing stories, The World and Other Places: Stories, 1986—1999 ($22
and reports back on the changes in her own spiritual cl, 0-375-40240-3) by Jeanette Winterson is the first
journey as well as thoughts on the complicated issues collection of stories from the author of Oranges Are
faced by the nuns themselves as they live and work in Not the Only Fruit, The Passion, and Sexing the Cherry.
the male-dominated hierarchy of the church. —Lisa McGowan
0-51770854-X, $23 cl, April. The Last Lovely City is a new collection of sto-
Though Heal Thy Self: Lessons on Mindfulness ries by Alice Adams. The first nine stories range from
in Medicine by Saki Santorelli is written by a man, its a college professor and his ex-wife playing an
subject is one of great interest to my customers (and extended game of let’s-kiss-and-make-up to the story
me too) - a little Deepak, a little Caroline Myss, for- of a woman who mourns the loss of her cat more pro-
ward by Jon Kabat-Zinn. New ways to open to pain foundly than the recent death of her husband. The
and vulnerability, ways to reduce stress. $23 cl, title story is the tale of an old doctor, known for his
0-60960385-X, March. —Linda Bryant generosity, who now faces the less-than-righteous
way he has managed to accrue the money to support
his good works. $22 cl, 0-679-45441-1, February.
While I Was Gone is a new novel by Sue Miller, the
author of The Good Mother. It is the story of Jo Becker, the
good wife who has everything: work she loves, a
In The Pig Farmer's Daughter and Other Tales devoied husband, three grown daughters, a beautiful
of American Justice: Episodes of Racism and Sexism Massachusetts farmhouse. When an old housemate set-
in the Courts from 1865 to the Present ($24 cl, tles in her small town, the fabric of Jo’s life begins to
0-679-43611-1), Mary Frances Berry (head of the U.S. unravel, and she hesitantly begins a relationship that
Civil Rights Commission) takes the reader through returns her to the darkest moment of her past and
two centuries of American case law to show how atti- imperils all she loves. $24 cl, 0-375-40112-1, February.
tudes toward gender, race, class, and sexuality have In a dazzling work of journalism, Janet Malcolm
influenced, and continue to influence, judicial deci- looks into a case of an unfrocked lawyer named Sheila
sion-making. Berry writes about specific cases, and McGough who wrote to Malcolm about her wrongful
the book is fascinating for its human drama as much conviction. The Crime of Shelia McGough looks at
as for its political implications. Walking on Water: McGough’s prosecution and conviction by a govern-
Black American Lives at the Turn of the Twenty- ment and jury who interpreted her zealous
First Century ($30 cl, 0-679-40827-4) by Randall representation of a con-man client as collaboration in
Kenan (Let the Dead Bury Their Dead) is a moving and his fraud. Malcolm’s book is a meditation on charac-
provocative account of the thinking, the feelings, and ter, on the law, and on the incompatibility of narrative
the lives of African Americans in the nineties. For this with truth. $22 cl, 0-375-40508-9, February.
January/February 1999 120 Volume 21 Number5
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Life in the Air Ocean is a debut collection of sto- discusses her coming of age and the artists whose
ries by Sylvia Foley. These nine dark, chilling stories work she witnessed on stage, canvas, screen, and
center around the Mowrys of Carville, Tennessee. paper, which have influenced her considerable pow-
These stories explore the wilds of childhood and the ers of perception and thought. $24 cl, 0-375-40402-3,
barren landscape of adulthood through two genera- February. —Sandi Torkildson
tions, from the tar flats of Tennessee to the lush When celebrated Scottish trumpeter Joss Moody
countryside of- Bogota, Colombia. $21 c<i, dies and the secret of his life is revealed, his wife Mil-
0-375-40063-X, February. lie and their adopted son Colman are besieged by the
From the author of Sister Wolf comes a new press; their world is shattered. The publisher
novel about a thriving agricultural community that, describes Trumpet ($23 cl, 0-375-40509-7) by Jackie
until now, has been blissfully ordinary and unev Kay as “a mesmerizing first novel about the bound-
entful. Incubus by Ann Aresnberg is the story aries of identity and the essential nature
of Dry Falls, which seems to be under a clima- of love.... [Trumpet is] the startling
tic glass bell when a three-month drought
blights its farms and gardens. The conditions fs» UY how they built a love, a family, and a
extend only as far as its borders and when life for themselves and their son out
animals give birth to monsters and women | of a complex, dazzling lie.” Jackie Kay
complain of sexual persecution, the rector of e is the author of Bessie Smith (see
St. Anthony’s starts to lose his faith. $24 cl, “Small Press” and “More Books for the
0-394-55696-8, February. African American Lesbian Section”).
The Rooms of Heaven by Mary Allen is _| Though Pantheon’s copy carefully
an intimate and gripping literary account of ai keeps Joss’ secret, I'll hazard what I
love, grief, and healing and an exploration Ç think is a pretty safe guess: Joss was a
of life after death. Allen meets and falls in woman. Jackie Kay’s writing is absolute
love with Jim Beaman, a witty, handsome working gold, and her first novel promises to be a
man with a drug addiction. Allen gets drawn into his great read. I can't wait to get my hands on it!
world of addiction with its promises and denials, —description by LM, commentary by TMR
good intentions and inevitable disappointments, African American Folktales: Stories from Black
When Jim kills himself, she embarks on a profound Traditions in the New World edited by Roger D.
journey that leads her, perhaps, to contact with Jim, to Abrahams is a part of Pantheon’s Fairy Tale and Folk-
the brink of madness, and ultimately back to herself. lore Library, now in paper ($16 pb, 0-375-70539-2).
$24 c], 0-679-45460-8, February. —Sandi Torkildson Now in paper: Black on White: Black Writers on
A Room of One's Own/Madison WI What it Means to Be White ($14 pb, 0-8052-1114-4;
Schocken) edited by David R. Roediger includes writ-
RH-Pantheon ings from Frederick Douglass and W.E.B. DuBois to
Traveling Mercies: Some Thoughts on Faith by Ida B. Wells-Barnett, Ralph Ellison, Toni Morrison
Anne Lamott journeys through her troubled past and and Alice Walker. —Lisa McGowan
tells how, against all odds, she came to believe in God.
She writes about her family, about helping a friend RH-Shambhala
through the illness of her baby, about wanting but not Now in paper: A Heart as Wide as the World:
having all the answers for her eight-year-old son. $23 Stories on the Path of Lovingkindness by Sharon
cl, 0-679-44240-5, February. Salzberg. Salzberg has many fans and we even sold
Wendy Lesser, the founder and director of The this in cloth. $12.95 pb, 1-57062-428-3, February.
Three-penny Review, a literary journal, traces the For those who can sell poetry — we do — and for
development of her thinking and the course of her the many fans of Ursula Le Guin, comes Sixty Odd:
life’s work in The Amateur: An Independent Life of New Poems, the first new book of her poems in nearly
Letters. Lesser explores both how we discover our a decade. $14 pb, 1-57062-388-0, February.
passions in life and how our passions discover us. She —Linda Bryant
Volume 21 Number 5 121 January/February 1999
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
New in paper: Jungian analyst Marie-Louise von African American Guide to Genealogy and Histori-
Franz examines archetypal symbols of humanity in cal Identity, Dee Parmer Woodtor, Ph.D., shows
fairy tales, dreams, and visions in Archetypal Dimen- how to sidestep the roadblocks that often hinder
sions. $25 pb, 1-57062-426-7; 416 pp. —Lisa McGowan Black genealogy, explaining how to use census
reports, slave schedules, courthouse records, the
RH-Three Rivers Internet, and other sources to trace a family tree ($25
Now in paper: Gracious Plenty by Sheri cl, 0-375-40595-X). Award-winning South African
Reynolds ($12, 0-609-80387-5, April), How to Mother reporter and poet Antjie Krog reported on the Truth
a Successful Daughter, a Practical Guide to and Reconciliation Commission for over two years.
Empowering Girls from Birth to Eighteen by Nicky Country of My Skull: Guilt, Sorrow, and the Limits
Morone, ($14, 0-609-80276-3, April), and Summoning of Forgiveness in the New South Africa ($27.50 cl,
the Fates, a Woman’s Guide to Destiny by Z. Buda- 0-8129-3128-9) is her account of the work of the
pest, ($12, 0-609-80277-1, April). —Linda Bryant Commission. “Trying to understand the new South
Capturing the spirit and drive of the sec- Africa without the Truth and Reconciliation
ond-wave feminists’ struggle for liberation, The Commission would be futile; trying to understand
Feminist Memoir Project edited by Rachel Blau the Commission without this book would be
DuPlessis and Ann Snitow is a compilation of 31 irresponsible.”—Andre Brink. Foreword by
essays and interpretations by female activists that Charlayne Hunter-Gault. Cleopatra’s Palace: The
bring women’s efforts to life. Reflecting on friend- Search for the Real Queen of the Nile ($35 cl,
ships that strengthened the movement and conflicts 0-679-46260-0) by Laura Foreman is a series tie-in to
that threatened it from within, these memoirs openly the Discovery Channel special to air in March on the
discuss the complexities of the many issues feminists discovery and excavation of this long-vanished
struggled with in the past and still struggle with summer palace. Contains more than 250 full-color
today: men, children, sexual orientation, race and illustrations, including exclusive underwater
class. Kate Millett, Vivian Gornick, Michele Wallace, photographs. —Lisa McGowan
Alix Kates Shulman, Joan Nestle, Jo Freeman, and a
v ina gri e t iny to hf e a pct oi sv si is bt i li tw yo m oe fn t hsh eo irw o h wo nw p w owom ere sn , , i nb ie tl ii ae tv e- d 41l: H
major shifts in all spheres of life, including sexuality,
marriage, children, work, medicine, education, poli- RH-Vintage
tics, and law. “These women — lively, opinionated, In Her Own Words: Women’s Memoirs from
disagreeing, and uniting — tell their own histories Australia, New Zealand, Canada, and the United
that actively created the history of us all. At last, the States ($18 pb, 0-679-78153-6, 784 pp), edited and
st0ory- 6by0 th9os-e 8wh0o l3ive8d 4it.”- —0G.r ace —PaleyT. $M20 pRb, w sti ot rh sa n fi n et lr eo vd eu nc t i ro en ab ry bJ li el l K oe mr nC ,o n tw ha isy . oT lh ler co tu iog nh the
i e o m k a w e c
shows how the worlds of politics and the private self
RH-Times Books and Reference intersect in four offshoots of the old British world.
The publishers’ catalog copy for Expecting Contributors include Janet Frame, Shirley Chisholm,
Adam: A True Story of Birth, Rebirth, and Every- Lillian Hellman, and Kim Chernin. A paperback orig-
day Magic ($23.95 cl, 0-8129-2980-2) by Martha inal. Vintage will also be publishing When Memory
Beck, which includes glowing endorsements from Speaks: Exploring the Art of Autobiography ($13
S (To hph e y A rB tu ir stn 'sh a m W a y(B ),o o ck a l lo sf t hA in s g e al s ) “ f a un nd n y J , u l ii na s p C ira im ngeron p Mb, 0 a-6 r79- c76 h645 .- 6) , —Ker L Co in sw aay ’s l Matest c b Gook o, w in an
memoir” about the author and her husband, whose Now available in paperback: Molly Ivins’ collec-
“decision to keep Adam (their unborn son who was tion of essays You Got to Dance with Them What
diagnosed with Down’s syndrome) propelled them Brung You, takes on the issues of the day with her
into a world in which they had no choice but to trust trademark good sense and inimitable wit. Whether
in magic.” In Finding a Place Called Home: An she’s writing about Bill Clinton, Bob Dole, or cultural
January/February 1999 122 Volume 21 Number:
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
n B
Inl. sÉ si .ILI ;
b
trends, she is guaranteed to offend readers of every development? This volume brings together leading
ideological allegiance and delight anyone with a gender and development scholars who interrogate
sense of humor. $12 pb, 0-679-75487-3, February. the last twenty years of work in this area. The book
Deep Sightings and Rescue Missions edited by examines gender and the environment, education,
Toni Morrison, collects Toni Cade Bambara’s fiction, population, reproductive rights, industrialization,
essays, and conversations. The collection is proof of macroeconomic policy, and poverty. Inspired by
Bambara’s intelligence and passion and the enduring recent feminist theoretical work, the book explores
powers of her creation. Bambara, who died in 1995 at previous structural analysis and opens the way for
the early age of 56, writes of mothers and daughters, further research in the field. $27.99 pb, 0-415-15790-0.
rebels and seeresses, community activists and aging
gang-bangers. Included are her reflections on film
and literature, politics and race and on the difficulty
and necessity of forging an identity as an artist, activ-
ist, and Black woman. $13 pb, 0-679-77407-6,
February.
Blues Legacies and Black Feminism by Angela Travel is a theme for St. Martin’s this winter with
Y. Davis is analysis of the blues in a historical, social two releases by Mary Morris. Angels and Aliens: A
and political context. Davis reinterprets the perfor- California Journey is Morris’ newest ($23 cl,
mances and lyrics of Gertrude “Ma” Rainey, Bessie 0-312-19949-X) and Nothing to Declare: Memoirs of
Smith, and Billie Holiday as the articulation of a a Woman Traveling Alone is now available from St.
Black, working-class feminist consciousness at odds Martin's ($13 pb, 0-312-19941-4). A different kind of
with mainstream American culture. $15 pb, journey is described in The Country Life by Rachel
0-679-77126-3, February. — Sandi Torkildson Cusk ($24 cl, 0-312-19848-5).
From This Day Forward: Commitment, Mar-
Routledge riage, and Family in Lesbian and Gay Relationships
Stigmata: Escaping Texts by Hélène Cixous is a by Gretchen A. Stiers, announced last fall, has been
collection of recent short texts by the renowned postponed to February. $24.95 cl, 0-312-17542-6.
thinker and writer. The pieces included resist classifi- — Suzanne Corson
cation according to any simple categories of subject From Diana Souhami (Gertrude and Alice and The
matter of genre. With the creative rigor she is known Trials of Radclyffe Hall) comes Mrs. Keppel and Her
for, Cixous’ writing chases across borders and Daughter, which tells the story of Violet Trefusis,
through languages on the heels of works by authors lover of Vita Sackville-West, and her mother, Alice
who share “an elusive movement” in spite of striking Keppel, lover to Edward VII. Alice Keppel was a key
differences. Along the way, these essays explore the figure in Edwardian society. Hers was the acceptable
broad range of poetico-philosophical questions that face of adultery. In contrast, her daughter Violet
have long been circulating in the Cixousian universe. Trefusis’ lover was Vita Sackville-West. Violet's
$19.99 pb, 0-415-17979-3. passion pitted her against her mother and society.
Feminist Visions of Development: Gender Through memoirs, diaries, and letters, Diana
Analysis and Policy edited by Cecile Jackson and Souhami portrays this fascinating and intense
Ruth Pearson seeks to answer these questions: Do mother/daughter relationship. Their story reveals
women benefit from development? Can feminist per- Edwardian — and contemporary — duplicity and
spectives further our understanding of women in double standards. “Fascinating...and richly
Volume 21 Number 5 123 January/February 1999
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
textured...Souhami’s style [is] vital, brave and full of Duane’s magic goes beyond the passions he awakens
fl0air-.” 3 —1 T2he - N1ew 9 Yo5rk1 T7im-es 6 Bo.o k R—eviewT. $M14.95R pb, and the needs he satisfies, however. A young woman
disguised as a man, Duane has created an illusion that
breaks through all accepted boundaries — an act of
Scribner ‘magic’ that ultimately unleashes a destructive ele-
The Best American Erotica 1999 edited by Susie ment that even he can’t control...” Nothing in the text
Bright includes stories from all points on the “sexual refers to Teena Brandon, the young woman passing
spectrum.” This anthology offers a smart, sometimes as a man who charmed the women of Falls City,
funny, and stimulating look at the diversity of sexual Nebraska, before being found out, raped, and killed
experience. $12 pb, 0-684-84395-1, February, by two of her male “friends,” but it seems perhaps
Touchstone. that this novel may have been inspired or influenced
Myth of the Welfare Queen by David Zucchino by her story. (The Brandon Teena Story is a documen-
is the reporter's portrait of the lives of two “welfare tary film produced in 1998; Teena Brandon was killed
mothers” in Philadelphia. Odessa Williams supports in 1994.) $12 pb, 0-684-84819-8, March.
an extended family with an incredible fortitude and Mary Gordon’s novel, Spending, is now available
resolve. Cheri Honkala is a single mother and advo- in paperback. Monica is a 51-year-old painter who
cate for the homeless. Their stories stand in stark longs for someone to take care of the details of her daily
contrast to the image of the welfare cheat that is held life. B, a commodities broker who collects her work,
up by those who wish to dismantle the welfare sys- obliges her and gives her time, money,
tem. $13 pb, 0-684-84006-5, February, space, and sex (all necessary in the cre-
Touchstone. ation of art!). Soon Monica is
Now in paperback: Nobody’s successful, but B's resources are dwin-
Girl by Antonya Nelson is getting dling. The change in power affects
some nice reviews: from The New York every part of their relationship,
Times, Redbook, and Booklist. In this including, as the blurb says, “some
novel, Birdy Stone is a high school Eng- surprising, supremely satisfying
lish teacher who gets high with her gay changes in the bedroom.” $12,
male friend, Jesús, helps a would-be 0-684-85204-7, March.
author write her memoirs, and has a love Now in paperback: The Ren-
affair with the son of that would-be dezvous by Justine Lévy is a wryly humorous and
author — who also “just so happens to be” one of her ironic novel about an 18-year-old woman’s feelings
s ist u d be on thts . c oT mhe ic c ao np dy ts ra ay gs i c ,t h aa t s t“ oN re yls o on f s gp rin ows i na g t a ule p , t h gea tt - t 0o -w 6ar 8d 4 -h 8er 4 6lo 3n 2g- -a 2b ,se n t M m arot ch her .. $ —11 T p Mb, R
ting high and feeling low, and of the lessons of
literature and life.” I must say that I don’t really get Simon & Schuster
the popularity of the older-woman-with-a-young- Susan Cheever was born into in a household that
boy theme that seems to suddenly be so popular (A was ruled by the cocktail hour, and, through college
Much Younger Man by Donna Highbridge comes to and three failed marriages, her life was both deeply
mind — a book I found unexceptional but which also touched and troubled by alcohol. In Note Found in a
garnered some impressive reviews, as well as the sea- Bottle: My Life as a Drinker, she writes of the effects
son opener of “Ally McBeal”). But who knows? that alcohol had on her life, in shaping her relation-
Perhaps this established author will treat the topic ships with men, and in influencing her efforts as a
with the complexity and integrity it warrants. $12 pb, writer. $23 cl, 0-684-80432-8.
0-684-85207-1, February. Lesley Stahl has been a reporter for CBS News for
The Illusionist by Dinita Smith is a novel set in over 25 years and has been a correspondent for “60
Sparta, New York. From the blurb: “Duane Lily, a Minutes” for the last eight years. Reporting Live is a
beautiful, amateur magician, beguiles the local memoir of her career in network news. $25 cl,
women with his tricks and his charms. The power of 0-684-82930-4
January/February 1999 124 Volume 21 Number5
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Composed of prayers, meditiations, and journal Over 100 different Nancy Drew and Hardy Boys
entries, Listening for God: A Believer’s Journey books are in print and are estimated to sell over
Through Silence and Doubt is Reverend Renita J. 300,000 copies per year. After 70 years, why are kids
Weems’s account of her own spiritual crisis. Rever- still reading these books? And why are teen detec-
end Renita J. Weems was named by Ebony as one of tives Nancy, Joe, and Frank still so popular? In The
our era's 15 greatest Black Women preachers. $22 cl, Mysterious Case of Nancy Drew and the Hardy
0-684-83323-9. Boys, Carole Kismaric and Marvin Heiferman
Susan Maushart wrote the following about her answer these questions and more as they track the
book, The Mask of Motherhood: How Becoming a major changes in American culture and teenage life
Mother Changes Everything and Why We Pretend from generation to generation. Strong-minded and
It Doesn't: “In my research as a social scientist, and fearless, teen detective queen Nancy offers girls
in my experience as the mother of three something more than adventure: she is
young children, I have been struck again and their role model. Nancy performs
again by two observations: that women with- faultlessly as a bareback rider at the
out children seem disturbingly unprepared circus; sends secret messages by
for the challenges of motherhood, and tap-dancing in Morse code, and
women with children seem disturbingly drives her blue roadster with
unprepared to discuss those challenges... I astounding skill as she acts out girls’
wish to offer the comfort that comes from fantasies of power. The Hardys may
learning that one is not alone; that the find themselves locked in a railroad
fears, frustrations, and confusions they are car, trapped by a thunderous ava-
experiencing are not evidence of personal lanche, or lost in thick fog, but they'll
incompetence but the legacy of unwork- always bounce back because they are
able social structures and contradictory | the Hardy boys. Nancy Drew and the
cultural demands.” $24 cl, 1-56584-483-1. Hardy boys enthrall kids longing for
—Lisa McGowan EEEE: escape, independence, and feelings of
Iron Pots and Wooden Spoons by Jessica B. omnipotence. Hip and nostalgic, The
Harris explores the influence of African cooking on Mysterious Case of Nancy Drew and the Hardy
Cajun, Creole, South American, and Caribbean cui- Boys is an informed and witty exploration of a world
sine. Includes 175 recipes that illustrate African where Frank, Joe, and Nancy make order out of
cooking techniques, as well as historical and personal chaos. $20 pb, 0-684-84689-6. —TMR
tidbits of Harris’ family’s cooking traditions. $12 pb,
0-684-85326-4, February. t Sounds True
In the tradition of the bestselling The Secret Lan- Spiritual Power, Spiritual Practice by two-time
guage of Birthdays comes The Hidden World of Oprah guest and bestselling author Caroline Myss is
Birthdays by Judith Turner. This gift book explains an original work available only in an audio edition.
what your birthdate reveals about you, including Myss says that without rigor and discipline, the full
your spiritual guides, gemstone, flower, lucky num- blessings of a spiritual life will never come. Here, Myss
bers, guardian angel, and more. $18 pb, teaches a step-by-step daily program for recognizing,
0-684-85798-7, March. cultivating, and harnessing the massive spiritual
Our Children: Raising Hispanic Children in a power one is born with. Through these daily disci-
Bicultural World by Gloria Rodriguez, Ph.D., tells plines — including two complete 40-minute
parents how to raise their children for success in the meditations — anyone can learn to tap the wellsprings
world while preserving their cultural heritage. Rodri- of love, faith, and trust that energize spiritual potential.
guez is the founder of Avance, an award-winning $18.95 audio, 1-56455-647-6.
family support and education program for Latino Who knew I would find myself reviewing a
parents. $13 pb, 0-684-83969-5; Spanish edition, workout video in the pages of FBN? But in the case of
0-684-84126-6. The Woman’s Warrior Workout: The Maximum
Volume 21 Number 5 125 January/February 1999
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Self-Defense Conditioning Program by Melanie Turner banishes the images of Vietnamese women
Murphy, I think it’s appropriate. There's no spandex as passive onlookers, war brides, prostitutes, or
here; the WWW will teach you to train your body and helpless refugees. It is estimated that 200,000
your mind from the inside out for maximum women were in the regular army of North Vietnam,
self-confidence in any situation. Murphy shares the the militia and local forces, and professional volun-
mental and physical building blocks of her StreetWise teer teams. These women operated underground
self-defense curriculum for women. From the box communications networks, staffed and directed
blurb: “No matter what your size or your athletic abil- jungle clinics, recorded the war as journalists, ran
ity, you can learn this intense, concentrated jungle liaison stations and ammunition depots, led
conditioning program for mental, physical, and spiri- and served in combat platoons, made coffins and
tual preparedness. Murphy covers the secret of burial cloths, and collected and buried the dead.
making yourself an undesirable target for potential Local militiawomen shot at American planes from
attackers, how to spot trouble before it starts, and factory rooftops and village fields, carried supplies,
mental techniques to prepare yourself for instant and treated the wounded — all while maintaining
action.” Murphy is one of only two women in the agricultural and industrial production at prewar
country to hold a fourth-degree black belt from the levels. Includes military accounts, private writing,
National Karate Association. $19.95, 35 minutes, and the literature of Vietnam's American War.
1-56455-652-2. —TMR $24.95 cl, 0-471-14689-7. —TMR
O
Verso
In this reissue of Black Macho and the Myth of
the Superwoman, Michèle Wallace “blasts the Gay Lit, continued frompage 82.
masculinist bias of 1960s Black politics, showing how bar-rag advice columnists. $12.95 pb, 0-452-27815-5,
women remained marginalized by the patriarchal cul- October, Penguin.
ture of Black Power.” $16 pb, 1-85984-296-8, March. Dawn Song by Michael Marano — There really
Frigga Haug and the other authors of Female is not much good gay-smart SF/fantasy being writ-
Sexualization: A Collective Work of Memory take ten; here’s the best of the year, a hypnotic blend of
as their themes “the sexualization of the body” and horror and fantasy about a gay man whose life
the construction of gender. Frigga Haug “bravely becomes entwined with the lusts of a succubus.
goes against the fashionable grain, working Marano’s prose is rendered with rare quality for the
through dream, memory and experience, and genre, and his tale will make the late-night reader
revealing theoretical contours for a much-needed shiver. $24.95 cl, 0-312-86432-9, July, St. Martin’s.
reorientation of socialist-feminist politics.” $18 pb, Oops: that’s 15; well, it was a very good year.
1-85984-207-0, March.
In Love in a Different Climate: The Meaning of
Being Gay in South Asia, Jeremy Seabrook “asks
how valid Western models of sexual identity are in
the South Asian context, and how effective they As to the standout sapphic book of the year for
might be in dealing with global issues of sexual me, that title goes to a late entry — Erika Lopez's
health, HIV awareness and gender politics.” $25 cl, absolutely smart and smartass cartoon/graphic/
1-85984-837-0, March. — Dylan Besk collage/text novel, They Call Me Mad Dog: A Story
for Bitter, Lonely People; it’s a brilliant third book,
1l: a stf ute fr f e dF l a fm ui ln l g o fI g u da rn ola ls aa nn dd aL da rp o i tD a on bc sin erg v af to ior n sM oo nm m thy e,
evil of love, the beauty of love, and the banality of
John Wiley & Sons love and life...with a politic completely unhindered
A searing chronicle of wartime experiences, by the rigidities of correct and incorrect: yum. $20 cl,
Even the Women Must Fight by Karen Gottschang 0-684-84941-0, November, Simon & Schuster. o
126 Volume 21 Number
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Index of Advertisers
A Ge M BOOKS S2. eee sa 87 Panthea 28, 30
Alyson PUDICAHONS. 42 Polestar Book Publishers. ................ 11
Astraea Ciara Publishing Company......... 98 Press Gang Publishers.. ......... s... 39
BOOKPEOPlet laes o eira e 4 Quick Book Publishing ..... 96
Brick Bokse 93 Radical Weeds.. 99 0 N. 94
Columbia University, PIess............... 100 Random House, 57... 28,30
Firebrand BOOKS. n = use e C3 Sister VisSiOnN Press... .... e re 20-21
Goldenrod Musie.. =. 76 SkY Carrier PIe58.. e r 44
Guernica EiHons 35: t re e 22 SPINIfexX PIeSS. 57.56 res 88
HarperSanFrancisco.... >... 110 Stewart Tabori & Chang... 24
Inkwell t. 97 Temple University Press... ..... 12
Innisfree Press... ars 34 Ten Speed Press/Celestial Arts. ............ 52
KnOpfs. rte r 28, 30 University of Chicago Press... ..... 108
Koen Book Distributors, Inc.. ............. C1 University of Illinois Press. ....... =... 36
Ladyslipper Music... b eoe 77 VIMASe. 59. elar ai 28,30
MarlØWe'G& C0. e e i aa eke 90 Victory Press. i e Z1
Naiad Press. 5.50 vee i sa C2 West End Press... ie r 5
Odd Girls -Press s t 86 Women’s Press. f. ieie 6
POW: d 90 Words Distributing: s... 4
Music, continued from page 77. albums (we stock eleven of them at this writing — and
Naked Keys or any of George Winston’s work, be sure
to hear this — it'll make a believer, as well as a frequent yet). Ulali, Walela (the Coolidge clan), Joanne Shenan-
listener, out of you. Jamie Anderson recommends this doah, Sharon Burch, Mary Youngblood, Joy Harjo,
one, and so do we. Sara McIntosh 1. Alice Gomez, The Mankillers, and Mishi Donovan
Sound Circle /Sound Circle. The repertoire of this contribute songs such as “Woman's Dance,” “For
21-voice women’s acappella ensemble includes music Anna Mae Pictou Aquash,” and more. Very highly
that speaks to the sounds, rhythms, and experiences of recommended! Red Feather 3001.
their own lives, and itemphasizes music by women. This Inkululeko/Inkululeko. The name comes from
first recording includes works by Sandra Washington, the South African Xhosa language and means “free-
Ysase Maria Barnwell of Sweet Honey in the Rock, Anne dom, redemption, and emancipation. The group is an
Lister, Rachel Bagby, Cris Williamson, and Holly Near. inspiring five-woman acappella world music ensem-
Recorded in-studio rather than live, gives it a qualitative ble from Austin, Texas, that performs choral pieces
edge over many choral releases. Libana fans and others from South Africa, West Africa, and the African Dias-
should take note. Sound Circle 1598. pora, including the U.S., Cuba, Brazil, and Haiti, in
Weaving the Strands/Various Native American addition to Eastern Europe and original improvisa-
Women. Native American compilations abound, but tions. Their compositions are organically arranged
thus far we have encountered none so lovely as this with both tightly and freely voiced harmonies. Here,
collection! Representing some of the most talented Na- they have selected songs that represent a progression
tive artists performing today, the track listing reads like of life's themes, ranging from welcoming songs to
a It “ cB oe ns tt a inof s st oh me e L a od fy s tli hp ep e lr o v N ela iet siv t e s eA lem cte ir oi nca sn f S re oc mti o n tw.” elve soYnges mthata pyraiase. th e I Cnrekatour alnud ltheek Gorea t M1ot.h er ,o
Volume 21 Number 5 127 January/February 1999
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
BOOK AND CATALOG DESIGN Bauter (daytime): 415-247-7700 or in the evening at
415-242-4415, email (d_bauter@hotmail.com).
Book and Catalog Design. For more than 15 years, we
have been designing and producing award-winning Jenn Tust, FBN’s former Assistant Managing Editor,
books, catalogs (including the Feminist Bookstore is going freelance! Copyediting and proofreading for
Network Fall Catalog), and other publications. We are jobs both large and small available. Years of profes-
located in San Francisco, but have worked successfully sional copyediting experience, quick turnaround. Call
with writers, publishers, and printers in all parts of the for rates and additional information. Jenn Tust,
country. Call if you would like to see samples of our 415-248-1732.
work and discuss an upcoming project. Pat Koren and
Laurie Smith, Kajun Design: 415-863-2494. FBN Classified Ads — $10 for first 50 words, 15
cents for each additional word. 25% discount for 3
COPYEDITING/PROOFREADING or more insertions paid at one time. Payment must
accompany ad. No charge for “Help Wanted”
Check Yourself! Excellent freelance copyediting / proof- listings up to 100 words. Send to FBN, Attn:
reading services provided by FBN’s former office Assistant Editor, PO Box 882554, San Francisco CA
manager. Prices start at $12/hour for proofing, $18/hour 94188; phone 415-642-9993, fax 415-642-9995, or
for copyediting, depending on task. Submissions email (TeriMae@FemBkNews.com).
received via email, fax, or delivery. Contact Danielle
Back to Press, continued from page 62. (the paperback is now out from St. Martin’s) and is at
Ann Cameron (Frances Foster/FSG), Joey Pigza Swallowed work on her second novel. Katie Hern of San
the Key by Jack Gantos (FSG), No Pretty Pictures: A Child Francisco won the first Claire of the Moon Award,
of War by Anita Lobel (Greenwillow/ Morrow), and A established by writer and filmmaker Nicole Conn to
Long Way from Chicago by Richard Peck (Dial provide $750 to the first runner-up in the fiction cate-
Books/Penguin). John Updike, a previous NBA and gory. Hern is seeking a publisher for Separation at
Pulitzer Prize winner, was awarded the National Book Birth, a collection of letters between her birth mother
Foundation’s Medal for Distinguished Contribution and herself during the first year of their reunion. The
to American Letters. Astraea Foundation distributed more than $324,000 in
The Astraea Foundation honored the 1998 Lesbian grants to a total of 97 organizations, 11 film/video
Writers Fund Award winners. Elena Georgiou, who projects, and 14 individuals in 1998. The grants fund
received the $10,000 poetry award, teaches creative locai, national, and international work on issues affect-
writing at City College, City University of New York. ing lesbians, as well as other women and queer allies.
She is the co-editor of The World in US: Lesbian and Gay
Poetry at the Beginning of the 21st Century. Nina Rights
Revoyr, recipient of the $10,000 fiction award, pub- Naiad Press has sold the Spanish rights to Never
lished The Necessary Hunger with Simon & Schuster Say Never by Linda Hill to Egales Press of Madrid. O
January/February 1999 128 Volume 21 Number5
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsTHOSE WHO WAIT by Peggy J. Herring
Hot-shot attorney Mickey Marcaluso..….
Brilliant physician Elaine Marcaluso ..….
TWO sisters . .….in love with the same woman!
When Cheryl Trinidad'’s lover Mickey runs off with another woman,
Mickey's sister Elaine is quick to offer support. Secretly in love with Cheryl
for years, Elaine hopes she'll finally have a chance to win Cheryl’s heart.
But will she? Mickey’s fling will soon be over and she'll want Cheryl back...
in the worst way. ISBN: 1-56280-223-2 $11.95
WHISPERS
IN THE WIND
by Frankie J. Jones
Athletic photographer Dixon Hayes
thinks she and her best friend, high
school teacher Elizabeth Colter, are
the perfect couple. Except for one
little problem — Elizabeth is only
interested in friendship.
Free spirited archeologist Leanne
McQuinness is convinced that she -
and Dixon should be together — at
least for tonight . . . .
Daredevil pilot Megan Bishop
believes she and Dixon are made for
each other — until she learns her
shocking secret! : :
ISBN: 1-56280-226-7 $11.95
WHEN SOME BODY
DISAPPEARS
A Brett Higgins Mystery
by Therese Szymanski
Handsome, street smart, and unabashedly butch, former underworld
figure Brett Higgins is a different kind of woman who plays by a different set
of rules. On the run and living under an assumed name, Brett's been trying
hsarede tmo p la yt oit s trlaeigtht , bhute rhe.r pa:st — and the women she attracts — won't
Under suspicion for a murder she didn't commit, Brett realizes that the
only way to prove her innocence is to track down the killers herself. If the
gamble plays out, Brett could be a free woman. But with the cops and her
old enemies closing in fast, the ultimate player is now playing for the
highest stakes of all — her life.
ISBN: 1-56280-227-5 $11.95
The Naiad Press, Inc.
P.O. Box 10543 • Tallahassee, FL 32302
(850) 539-5965 • Fax (850) 539-9731 • 1-800-533-1973
WWWw.naiadpress.com
PT
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsPat Parker—that revolutionary,
uesti0on: raw, and as they used to say, “right-
on sister”—would be celebrating
What do Women’s her fifty-fifth birthday in 1999 had
EL ALLL :1 fele she not died of breast cancer ten
History Month, years ago. Io honor her work and
N Tetdfojajel j aia ALLL call attention to the significance
and Lesbian/Gay Book of her contributions, Firebrand
TIT Ta Books is publishing a new,
011e a expanded edition of her classic,
Movement In Black.
With an incisive introduction by
e Cheryl Clarke, celebrations/remem-
LAX brances/tributes from ten outstand-
T ed CAS I Tat ing African American women
T Jae writers (Donna Allegra, Angela Y.
Davis, Ioi Derricotte, Jewelle
Gomez, Audre Lorde, Michelle
Parkerson, Ann Allen Shockley,
Barbara Smith, Pamela Sneed, and
: T Evelyn C. White), and a dozen
C C previously unpublished pieces,
T I1 4 1o v Tehme e Cnotm m Inon s B _la cVko u e1],s d ua Bmlacuks t 1 8 :r evaadd/
` (607) 272-0000 must have on your shelves.
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Wed, 27 Mar 2024 01:02:40 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms