Feminist Bookstore News
Source: Reveal Digital, 01-01-1998
Contributed by: Carol Seajay; Renee; Donna Niles; Pokey Anderson; Mev (Miller; Carol;
Jackie (Dumas; Eve Zaremba; Roz Warren; Margaret Gillon; Roz; Jenn Tust; Jacqueline
Dumas; Jahnet Hewsick; Richard Labonte; Barb Smalley; Laurie Fuchs; Linda Bubon; Liz
Wermcrantz; Nan Cinnater; Laura Quilter; Heather Whipple; Tee A. Corinne; Mev Miller;
Lisa McGowan
Stable URL: https://www.jstor.org/stable/community.28036383
Licenses: Creative Commons: Attribution-NonCommercial
JSTOR is a not-for-profit service that helps scholars, researchers, and students discover, use, and build upon a wide
range of content in a trusted digital archive. We use information technology and tools to increase productivity and
facilitate new forms of scholarship. For more information about JSTOR, please contact support@jstor.org.
This item is openly available as part of an Open JSTOR Collection.
For terms of use, please refer to our Terms & Conditions at https://about.jstor.org/terms/#whats-in-jstor
Reveal Digital is collaborating with JSTOR to digitize, preserve and extend access to Reveal Digital
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThis content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsi dkB SBrCand
Bear b arEa O TC
DC Tai
Jewelle (eT
IE Gossett
Janice TTT
EIRE EN
N N
eS E E
E B TEIE :
PE NEC
A won FELO
ONA
. e .
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsLast fall, shortly after Rev. Jesse Jackson's march this schedule works better for you, please let us know
across the Golden Gate Bridge to protest the State of and we'll repeat this schedule next year.
California's recently enacted ban on Affirmative
Action, the FBN staff decided that the most useful This special double issue of FBN honors the
thing we could do, as a group, was to turn our next struggles of people of color and women for basic civil
i Wss ou me e nin ’st o H a is t s op re yc i a Ml o d no tu hb sl . e W is es u we o o un ld B ula sc e k t hH ei s t io ssr uy e a tn od r ali lg h ft es m i in n i st th i as n dc o u An ft rr iy ca. n I t A mce el reb icr aa nt e s b o — ok s tan ord e s e n tc oo u cr ea lg e-es
ask booksellers in both (all, actually) kinds of commu- brate — both Black History Month and Women’s
n thit ey e vb eo nok tss t o tr oe s r et mo i nc del e b thr eat ire cb oo mth m uM no itn it eh s s t han atd Ato f f iu rs me - pH ris ot go rr ey ss i vM eo , n t ah n d a n gd ay h so tn oo rr es s a tl hl a to f a ct th ive e lB yl a c wk o, r kf e m toi wn ais rt d,
ative Action affects all of us and that we need to work building a world where there is room for all of us, and
t co ig de eth de r t t oo k seee np d A f tf hir em a it siv se u eA c t ti oon Ain fta rc it c. a nW e Ade m- erican mth ue n ig tyen e Sr ta ot rio en s,s ” t po a g f e o l 5lo .)w. (See “Honoring Other Com-
bookstores and to ask both women’s bookstores and
African American bookstores to cross-promote each
other during these Months. Working together we can WBl oac mk e n H 'si s t Ho ir sy to rM y o n Mt oh n t. h . .. .. . . .. .. .. . . .F .. e b Mru arar chy
do much more to keep our segment of independent
books e Tll hin isg isin sut eac t i s t h onan e w ofe tc ha en mdo o s ti n d ei xv ci id tu ina gll y . and reward- A Nf atr ii oc nan al A Lm ese br iaic na n & W Go am y e n B’s o o kM o Mnt oh n* t h . . .. April June
ing special issues we've ever done. Every idea led to * per Sisterspace. See page 8.
more ideas, more articles, more features. Our deepest
thanks to everyone who took our calls, recommended Feminist and African American bookstores both
books, placed ads, and helped in every way imagin- evolved out of the Civil Rights Movements of the
able to make this issue a success. We hope you enjoy sixties and early seventies.
it, find it affirming of the work you do, and find it Both serve as community centerpieces, encour-
useful. We'd love to hear what you think of the issue aging and creating discussion even as we reflect on
and if you'd like to see another Black His- current events in our communities. Both keep infor-
tory/ Women’s History Months issue next year. mation flowing, and create and nurture connection
Please note that we've also revised our schedule among our members. Both kinds of bookstores — like
for the Spring Announcements issue. We’re taking any good bookstores but far more than most book-
advantage of the rescheduling required to publish a stores — bring people and ideas together in such a
double issue to push our deadlines for the Spring way that new ideas, projects, changes, and sometimes
Announcements issue back a little so we can accom- revolutions, are generated, changing and improving
modate more of the Spring book announcements. the situation in small and large ways.
Please check the revised deadlines on the next page. If Our stores are information centers, community
Winter 1998
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
*
centers, the place to go if you're new in town and need Thomas about the bookstore’s role in the develop-
to find your community; the place to go when you lose ment of Lest We Forget.
your center and need to find home. African American and feminist booksellers from
all over the country talk about their favorite, most
In this special issue we take to task those who use important, and most popular Women’s History and
our community celebrations and this time that is set Black History Month titles, starting on page 19. FBN
aside to honor those who have contributed to freedom supplements this section with a roundup of forthcom-
struggles as a marketing opportunity and a way to ing, new (and favorite) titles for Black History and
make a buck off the backs of those who have already Women’s History Month. (See page 39.) For posters
carried too many burdens. Opportunism, in all its and sources for other materials to enhance Women’s
manifestations, is inappropriate and has no place in and Black History Month displays, as well as a round-
celebration and honor. (See “The Commercialization of up of distributors, turn to “Resources” on page 15. For
Black History Month,” page 6.) books for African American lesbians and gay men, see
“The African American Lesbian Section” (page 33)
Elsewhere in this issue, we look at some chal- and “Gay Lit for Feminist Bookstores” (page 81).
lenging initiatives: a college-level program designed
. to break down racism in mainstream publishing; a We hope you find this issue to be useful and
collaboration between a Black bookstore and a femi- enjoyable. If this is the first issue of FBN you've seen,
nist bookstore to snag — and produce — an evening we hope you'll be joining us on a regular basis.
with Alice Walker. We talk with Faye Williams, the Subscription information is enclosed and can also be
founder of Sisterspace, the country’s only African found on page 57.
American feminist bookstore, where April is African Yours in spreading the words,
American Women’s Month, and with Velma Maia Carol Seajay
Spring Summer & Fall
Announcements Sidelines Announcements
April - May June - August Sept - Oct
Articles February 6 April 24 July 3
Ad Reservations March 6 May 8 July 10
Ad Mechanicals March 13 May 15 July 17
News Column Items February 27 May 22 July 17
Letters March 3 June 4 July 22
FEMINIST BOOKSTORE NEWS is the communications vehicle for letters are the responsibility of the authors. FEMINIST BOOKSTORE
the informal network of feminist bookstores. FBN reaches 500 NEWS (ISSN: 0741-6555) is published bimonthly in January,
feminist and feminist-inclined bookstores in the U.S. and Canada as March, May, July, September, and November by FEMINIST
well as feminist booksellers in England, Europe, Australia, New BOOKSTORE NEWS at 2180 Bryant Street #207, San Francisco
Zealand, India, Japan and Kenya. Librarians, Women’s Studies CA 94110. Periodicals Postage paid at San Francisco CA. POST-
teachers, book reviewers, publishers and feminist bibliophiles MASTER: Please send address changes to FEMINIST BOOKSTORE
comprise the remainder of the subscribers. Signed articles and NEWS, PO Box 882554, San Francisco CA 94188-2554.
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFBN CONTENTS
EDITOR & PUBLISHER Carol Seajay
ASSISTANT EDITOR Jenn Tust BLACK & WOMEN’S HISTORY MONTHS
ADVERT. & PRODUCTION Kathryn Werhane Honoring Other Community Stores. . . . ....... 5
CATALOG COORDINATOR Lisa McGowan TWhe oCormkmeirnciagliz at ioTn o ofg eBltachk eHirst.o.r.y M.o.n.t.h.... . .. . .. . .. . 6... 7
OFFICE MANAGER Danielle Bauter Profile: Sisterspace& Books. ............ 8
COLUMNISTS A Bookseller's Book: Lest We Forget . ........ 9
. CAr at n B ao do ik as n: T e Be oC oor kin sn : e Jacqueline Dumas B B Rr le aa Eck ki Sn g OC lt Uah se s C iR c S'a sc e S D .B oa cr ur =i Te .r e . c i hn e P .. u ..b l ri .s .h . .i .n ..g e. , ,. 1. 2 1. 5..... 11
Gay Men's Literature: Richard Labonte
Humor: Roz Warren Booksellers’ Recommendations . . =... ..... 19
Kids’ Lit: Linda Bubon The African American Lesbian Section. . . ...... 33
Music: Barb Smalley & Susan Frazier Roundup of Titles for BHM & WHM . ......... 39
Mysteries: Nan Cinnater
New Media: Dorothy Holland ARTICLES
SciFi/Fantasy: Laura Quilter Bookstore NWS., . d u t 67
& Heather Whipple Feminist Publisher News. 8... 6: 69
VU in di ev oe :r s Lit izy WPr ee rs mse cs r: a nM tzev Miller R Nesp Gon Wses S t o .D i st er ib u Rtio n eA r ti acl e s i s. . . a.. s... ... 554 9
PROOFREADERS $1,000 to Bookstore from Penguin Settlement • Fine Print
Martha Barrera, Danielle Bauter, Sarah Closes • Independent Bookstores’ Bestsellers List • TLC
Fallon, Nsomeka Gomes, Kirsten Janene- Publishing Triangle Awards • Authorless Events • Stonewall
Nelson, Karen Mckevitt, Karen Mitchell, Awards • Unionizing at B&N, Borders • Obituaries
Cathleen Moore, Stephanie Provines,
Dena Taylor, and Susan Waller DE PAARdTM E NInTSdex. . Pe T, 139
Announcements... . 74
BACK IG. PIS8I us bumas T sree 76
HOW TO REACH US [tee San aae aiie palti sti
TEL EP4HO1NE5 4-15-66424-99293- S ub scsrip-tion Information . . . ............. 57
FAK SISS Writ iThneyg W e ntW ThaatAn-Wtaye®d "n...5.." M 8 A0, T7
U.S. POSTAL SERVICE
Feminist Bookstore News THE BOOKS
PO Box 882554
SDanE FLrIaVnciEscRo ICEAS 9 4 1G88 a aygi a MDagEpjMf |S PE a M aaPrt t8it1e at
2180 Bryant Street #207 HUMOR ee o R P T 99
SEan M FraAncisIcoL C A M9411u0 sKiIdcS' L itR. = . a e a s s a e a 887 3
GEednietroarl In&f o :P uDbanliieslhlee r@:F eCmaBrkoNle@wFse.cmomB k MNyeswtesr.iceso m s tNe EAW e Mbiee d Tiar. . .S R a k ab e L A91ae 90
Assistant Editor: Jenn@FemBkNews.com OUr OWN Presses. .. . . .. -2 u ee sa 101
Advertising: Kathryn@FemBkNews.com Publishers Row. . . ................. 125
CPatraliong:t eLidsa @ Fienm B ktNhewes .c oUm S SAcie n cSem Fiactlilo n P&r eFasnsteassy.... . . .. . .. . .................. 91505
University Presses... ................ 115
Volume 20 Number 5/6 3 Winter 1998
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsowerful voices,
powerful lives
oaf Black
Women in
Aea
An Altar of Words
Wisdom, Comfort, and Inspiration for
African-American Women
Byllye Avery
KATHL HOMPSON The acclaimed founder of the National
Black Women’s Health Project offers a
personal sanctuary for renewal through
this intimate collection of meditations
A Shining Thread of Hope on evocative terms.
The History of Black Women in America
“Byllye Avery offers us a vital guide to
Darleen Clark Hine and Kathleen Thompson affirming ourselves and the world
around us and tells us that we have the
An unprecedented, landmark narrative —
power to construct our worlds as we
co-authored by a pioneer in African American choose. A wonderful sermon on life and
and women’s history and an award- winning how we might better see and live it in
writer on race and gender—sweeping from our the coming millennium.”—Angela Davis
country’s beginnings to today.
0-7679-0079-0, $16.00
“This stirring tour de force moves black women
from the wings to center stage. . . . Their
revealing chronicle will inspire and instruct.”
— Publishers Weekly (starred, boxed review)
=Y Broadway Books
0-7679-0110-X, $27.50 A division of Bantam Doubleday Dell
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
In California, where FBN is published, the Repub- one struggle with many fronts, that none of us are free
lican state government is actively dismantling until all of us are free, or highlighting local events and
affirmative action, doing its best to push the clock activism.
back, pretending that equality and equal opportunity
have been achieved and, in Jesse Jackson's words, re- Honoring Each Other’s Stores
segregating society along both race and gender lines. Another way to celebrate and honor all aspects of
Civil rights have never not been under attack in both communities would be for stores to put a placard
this country. People of color and women — and most with the name and address of the local Black/women’s
especially the people who are both — have had to fight bookstore(s) in their window display during that
for human respect and dignity since the Middle month. Women’s stores could honor and promote the
Passage, since the invasion of this land by Europeans, local Black store(s) during Black History Month.
since the destruction of the more egalitarian, woman- African American stores could do the same for the local
ist societies of the distant past. women’s store during Women’s History Month. Gen-
It’s not a struggle we're going to see resolved in eral independent bookstores could honor local African
our lifetimes; the legacy of centuries of abuse and American bookstores during February and the local
exploitation will not disappear in the generations women’s stores during March. Our communities, espe-
that follow quickly upon ours. But it is our struggle cially women, gays and lesbians of color who live in
and our fight, one that we will take up again and both communities, need to know about all of their
again and again, to address the many forms oppres- resources and to see different parts of their communi-
sion and abuse manifest in this culture. ties honoring and respecting each of the other parts.
This winter, when affirmative action is so clearly
under attack, seems to me a good time to remember
and to remind our sometimes separate communities One simple, concrete, do-able way
that, (awkward, frustrating and difficult as it is some- to make that statement
times) we need to stand together.
is by celebrating and honoring
Celebrate Both Black History
& Women’s History Months both Black History Month
Booksellers, especially feminist and African and Women’s History Month
American booksellers, are uniquely positioned to in all of Our stores.
remind our communities that we are allies in this par-
ticular fight as well as in many other aspects of the
struggle for human rights. One simple, concrete, do-able Why would a small bookstore advertise another
way to make that statement is by celebrating and hon- store in its window? To honor that store's work and its
oring both Black History Month (February) and contribution to the larger community, because adding
Women’s History Month (March) in all of our stores. a sign underscores work the store already does (refer-
Stores that already celebrate both Months might ring customers to other community-based stores),
choose to strengthen their window display by adding because what Black History Month and Women’s
a sign or comment (which can be repeated in news- History Month are about, when all is said and done, is
letters, programs, book displays) that affirmative honoring community. We would also do it because we
action is essential to all of us. Or a stronger statement stand in direct opposition to those who ignore people
reflecting the politics of that particular store: that it’s of color/women/whoever, until there’s a sale to be
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
made; to stand in opposition to corporations that nity bookstores specializing in the unique needs of our
actively reduce these kinds of community pride particular clientele understand the difficult work, the
events to an advertising opportunity and do self- obstacles, and the everyday maddening aspects and
promotion at the expense of the communities these wonderful rewards of community bookselling like no
events are intended to support. one else. Booksellers, I suggest here, need community
[So are there chainstore executives reading these as much as the people we're serving everyday.
very words who are so embarrassed by their com- But here’s an even better idea: instead of just
pany's behavior in the past that they will take up this putting another store's name and address in your
idea and require each of the hundreds or thousands of window, call that store and tell them that you want to
stores in their chain to post the names, addresses and honor their work and contribution to the community
phone numbers of Black, feminist, and gay stores by putting their name and address in your window
(We're upping the ante), respectively, during Black during ___ History Month and that you’d like to ask
and Women’s History Months and during Gay Book them to extend that same recognition to your store
Month? I doubt it! But, hey! Go ahead and prove me during ___ History Month. Should they be speech-
wrong. Make my day!] less (or even if you just caught them at a bad time) give
For booksellers, honoring one another’s stores them time to recuperate by filling the silence with “We
and recognizing in one another the hard work and need a strong community of independent bookstores
skill and tenacity it takes to run a feminist/Black that serve communities like yours and mine. The more
community store is a(nother) step toward building specialty and truly independent bookstores we have,
community among booksellers. We who run commu- the stronger we'll all be.” —CS O
By Carol Seajay interest in “non-white” literature, to manifest an
image. It is interesting that almost none of these forces
Black History Month, Women’s History Month, line up their song and dance routines for Women’s
and similar events reflect and grow out of their com- History Month. Are women not perceived as having
munities’ long, and often torturous struggles for money to spend? Do women not buy books? Is there
dignity and human rights. These events recall and no value in feigning interest in women? Apparently
honor those struggles that, in the end, benefit all of us. not. Go figure.
And yet, despite their clear focus, there has been Are we saying that it’s inappropriate for publish-
some attempt to use these events inappropriately. ers and non-Black, non-feminist, non-gay stores to
Ironically, while Black History Month has been celebrate these events? Absolutely not — as long as
commercialized in many venues, Women’s History their events honor the respective communities. Pub-
Month has been virtually ignored by commercial lishers should certainly publish books during each of
forces. Perhaps that’s because Women’s History Month the Months — as long as they are also supporting
is newer (launched in 1987, Black History Month’s those communities with good books the rest of the
precursor, Black History Week began in 1916) and the year, too. All bookstores should be encouraging their
opportunists just haven’t caught on yet. Not likely — communities to read Black, feminist, lesbian and gay
Gay Book Month, launched only seven years ago, is writers during these respective celebrations — and all
already an event on publishers’ calendars and chain of the rest of the year, as well.
stores all along Fifth Avenue do gay-themed windows Competing with community stores for their
(most of which feature the work of white men) in June. customer base is not, however, appropriate. Using
These and similar forces are just as eager to use Black one’s larger co-op kitty or larger annual buy to snag
History Month to attract customers, to feign a genuine or demand the big authors (Black/feminist/gay) or
Volume 20 Number 5/6
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
exclusives or even “firsts” is totally contrary to the challenges, that nurture community-based litera-
spirit of these events. It is, in the long run, self- tures that feed the world.
destructive. If writers come out of particular com- If corporate entities can’t respect these values,
munities, and if their work appeals to particular hopefully the individuals who work in such competi-
communities as well as general communities, then tive environments can, and that they can and will take
these are literatures that are nurtured and enhanced
the initiative to see that their events don’t compete
by the existence of a network of community stores. with — or step on the face of — their local community
Should these community stores disappear, should stores. It only takes an extra call to say, “I'd love to
the only venues for these literatures become limited have that author — but only if store has already
to large chain stores, what will happen to the litera- turned him/her down” or “I'll do it if we can make it
tures? If chain stores care about nothing else, they a joint event” — and then to backing up joint events
should care that these community stores continue to financially by offering to split proceeds 50/50 while
exist for the sake of their contributions to a flourish- splitting expenses using a ratio based on each store’s
ing community literature — so that the chain can income or access to co-op. There are hundreds of ways
continue to sell the crossover books. But that pre- for chains — and even the larger general independent
sumes a commitment to long-term values. The kind stores — to support African American, women’s, and
of long-term values that drive civil rights work over gay community events and celebrations with integrity.
the decades, that keep community booksellers in All it takes is a little creativity, some thought, some
their communities selling books despite the financial recognition, and a little communication. O
When Random House put out the call to book- teers to participate in planning and hosting the event.
stores for proposals — a contest almost — to win a Committees included set-up and decorations, refresh-
place in Alice Walker's Anything We Love Can Be Saved ments, hosting, and running the booksigning.
tour, Books Woman’s Susan Post called Folktales’ “It was a good way to work,” Rosalind recalled
owner Rosalind Oliphant to suggest that the two later, “As long as you keep the lines of communication
stores make a joint project of bringing Alice Walker to open. We had lots of people — with lots of ideas — so
Austin. The two stores working together could make that takes a lot of compromise. You have to give and
a stronger proposal and do a better job with the event. take on every detail: what kind of flowers to have,
“I thought it was a great idea,” Rosalind told FBN, your own vision of where the signing will actually
“because I love Alice Walker and her work. We had a lot take place, all of those kinds of things, because every-
of experience to draw on; Susan has been in the business thing has to be collaborative. And you can
for twenty years and I've had Folktales for seven years.” compromise on all of those small things as long as the
The first step was to sit down and brainstorm the compromises all work toward the real goal: creating
event, to have a couple of sessions of free floating talk an elegant, exquisite, and memorable evening. And
before writing the proposal to consider the possibilities we did. It went extremely well. Customers are still
both technical — where to hold it, how many people telling us they had a good time.”
to plan for, ticket prices, whether tickets should be “It was a good collaboration because the issues
priced to include a book — and qualitative — what we face are very similar,” Susan Post added later. “We
kind of ambiance did they want to create, how did alternated meetings between the two stores and of
they want the event to feel, what did they want people course things came up. We planned the event, but we
to take away from it, how many volunteers would also dealt with racism and homophobia, and laughed
they need to pull it off in the style that they wanted. together in recognition at times when we could see
Once the proposal was accepted, both booksellers that we were dealing with the same issue reflected in
tapped into their respective communities for volun- a different form...”
Winter 1998
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Was it worth the effort? Absolutely! The event, validated and honored.” That alone would have made
the evening, and, yes, the book sales. But there have the event worthwhile for Susan.
been other, equally important effects. The skills But how deeply does this commitment run? FBN
learned and expanded in producing the event, a asked if Book® Woman’s sales had declined when
closer relationship with another bookseller, and the Folktales opened. “Of course they did,” Susan
value to their communities. answered. “But that’s not the point. The real point is
“Black women in our community were very that we need both kinds of bookstores here. We need
proud that their women’s bookstore was working all kinds of stores if independent bookselling is to
with the Black community to do this project. People survive for the long run. If Folktales is here, selling
didn’t have to feel as split for that moment and felt bosokts rin o thnis gcomemrun,ity , ttheno oBoo.k”®W o mCan Sis O
their community, their whole community, to be
You can't judge a book by its cover or a bookstore street level, with big, beautiful windows. It features
by its name. plenty of room for meetings, workshops, movie
Sistahs is an obviously-loved (story in a minute) nights, and an art gallery, as well as for books and
bookstore serving its African American community — sidelines. When the bookstore opened it shared a
men and women, in Roxbury, a primarily Black com- third-floor space with a women’s consignment cloth-
munity in Boston — not a specifically woman-oriented ing shop. “People are glad to walk the one-and-a-half
store as one might guess from its name. Well-loved? blocks to the new store instead of climbing the 30 steps
When I called “Information” to get the phone number, to the old store.” Being at street level generates more
Tignorantly spelled “S-i-s-t-e-r-s” to the tape-recording walk-in traffic, of course. “But now,” Faye adds,
that answers “Information” calls these days. When the “We've got to figure out what to do with all these
operator came on the line to give me the number, she white guys who are coming in....”
oh-so-firmly corrected my spelling and, in the very- Sisterspace is a very activist bookstore. “Women
short exchange operators are allowed these days, come in and look around, and after a few visits we get
conveyed that this was her store, her community, and to know them and their interests. We ask women if
that I'd best show it proper respect. they're interested in this project or that project that
I was awed by her telephone skills and impressed we're working on and now we have a core group of
by a store that inspires such devotion. about 30 women who are very involved and who are
speaking out on the issues. We ask everyone to take
Sisterspace & Books, which operates under the our fliers into the community. This is a very grass-
tag-line “African American Women’s Books,” is the roots-based store... We're also getting a good response
nation’s only African American woman-owned and from the more conservative, middle-class Black
operated bookstore specializing in books by and about women,” Faye continues.
African American women. “So far,” founder and Sisterspace runs a variety of different cultural
co-owner Faye Williams hastens to add. programs. A recent video-and-discussion series
The store, located in Washington DC's historic U featured Daughters of the Dust and films about Toni
Street corridor, just celebrated its third anniversary by Morrison and Alice Walker. Many of the films were
moving into a larger space and moving another step borrowed from the public library, others were rented
further toward the owners’ goal of creating an African from a video store — more or less readily available,
American Women’s Resource Center. except for the wonderful and frequently intense
The new space is a 2,000-square-foot storefront on discussions that follow viewings at Sisterspace.
Winter 1998
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Writing workshops are also popular. Last spring Month and has celebrated it ever since.
Sisterspace ran an African American Women Writers Whys Sisterspace still the only African American
Conference and will do a similar conference again women’s bookstore?
this year. “Financial resources, or rather the lack of them,”
DC already had a women’s bookstore when Faye Faye responds. “But we also have a different point of
Fst Ba Nrt e ad s k S ei ds .terspace. “Why did DC need another?” v coie mw m uab no itu yt . h Wow e' r et o s eg ro io ua sb o fu et m o inrg isa tn si ,z in fog r i n on et h te h iB nl ga .c k My
“Our focus is different. We’re in the hood — this feminism started with my mother having to take care
store is about saving our community and dealing with of seven children. Now that’s a bold feminist state-
the issues Black women live with day to day; the issues ment if there ever was one, but most people work
that are directly in your face all the time.” And of where they're most comfortable.”
course, unlike the seven other African American book- “Do you think there’s a fear that when Black
stores in DC, Sisterspace’s focus is on women’s issues. women organize for women, or specifically about
Being organizers, the Sisterspace team is more women, that they’ll be called lesbians?” FBN asked.
than willing to invent when faced with a need: When “Of course. That’s the first thing that happens
a discussion group fell to commenting on how all the whenever anyone organizes anything for women. It
Black History Month events and programs seemed to doesn’t matter who they are. It was one of the first
be about men and that most of what they heard during things we were called when we opened. We said ‘So
Women’s History Month was about white women, what? Some of us are. Now get over it.”
and the group concluded that they needed a Black If you're in DC, visit Sisterspace at 1515 U Street.
Women’s Month, Sisterspace took up the idea and If you're not in DC, check out their Web site:
declared April to be African American Women’s (www.blackpgs.com/'sisterspace.html). —CS0O
Lest We Forget
Gratitude is the most common response to Velma
Maia Thomas’ remarkable Lest We Forget: The Passage
from Africa to Slavery and Emancipation. Not gratitude
for the story, but for the telling of it. For creating, in the
book and in the Black Holocaust Exhibit from which
the book evolved, a way for people to recall the brutal
reality of slavery in this country and pay homage to
those who suffered slavery and endured.
Maia Thomas is a bookseller and the story of the
book and the exhibit begin in the Shrine of the Black
Madonna Bookstore* in Atlanta. “As booksellers,” she
told FBN, “We always put out the call for out-of-print
books — fiction by Black writers, Black history, books
about slavery...” It was in 1991 that someone called
and said they had a document, a bill of sale for a slave. Holding that document, the “deed” for a human
Was she interested? being, was a transformative experience.
The document, written in a beautiful hand, It was the beginning of a quest. As her collection
recorded the sale of a six-year-old boy, Charles, for of documents grew, Thomas began to exhibit them in
$350. It made no mention of his parents, or any other one of the galleries in the bookstore.
family, but said that he would be transported from his Word spread and when a journalist was
home in Virginia to Louisiana. researching an article about ways the Black community
Winter 1998
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
commemorates the generations who were enslaved, The two of them met with the designer, and the
someone suggested talking to Ms. Thomas about her rest is certainly history — history you can hold in
exhibit. your hands.
The article appeared in a Sunday edition of the
New York Times. As luck (or perhaps the ancestors) Public response to Lest We Forget has been enor-
would have it, her Random House telemarketing rep, mous. The entire 30,000-copy first printing was gone
Manie Barron (now African American Specialist, by early December. An additional 15,000 copies were
Trade Sales and Marketing at Random House) saw released on December 8. This is going to be a very
the article. important book for years to come.
A few days later he called the bookseller and “People take the book and read it with children
asked if she could make a book out of the exhibit. — it’s not specifically a children’s book, but it’s the
She was hesitant. The documents, to her, were children who make the adults come to grips with it.
alive and vital; putting them between the covers of a The children ask questions and make adults think about
book might not serve them or tell their story well. and name human nature, and how people can be driven
A few days later Barron called again and pro- by greed to do the inhumane,” Thomas told FBN.
posed “a Wn e i n tt he or ua gc hti tv e t hb ao to k i. f people could hold something exhibi tP ea dr t s a t o f t h et h e N a B til oa nck al H Bo lalo cc ka u Ast r t c so l Fle ec st ti io vn al , h a av t e t hb eeen
in their hands, hold a bill of sale — actually hold it Shrine of the Black Madonna Bookstore in Houston,
versus reading about it — that the book might touch and at the South Eastern Booksellers Association
them on a different level, maybe a spiritual level; that meetings earlier this year. It would be wonderful if
maybe they would feel pulled back into time,” Crown could find a way to exhibit a part of this
Thomas recalled. collection at BEA this spring. (Random House created
questions & answer
The Advancement of Women
Virginia Valian
“Virginia Valian has made distinguished contributions to the science of language acquisition,
and here she turns her analytical eye to another challenging problem — how the human
capacity for categorization affects the perception and status of women. Why So Slow? is
comprehensive, skillful, and well-written. It is an important advance and an indispensable
resource.” — Steven Pinker, Professor of Psychology, MIT, and author of The
Language Instinct and How the Mind Works
605 pp., 23 illus. $30
PARTICULAR VOICES
Portraits of Gay and Lesbian Writers
Robert Giard
“Giard has long been considered the photographer of record for gay and
lesbian writers. Particular Voices is both stirring and gorgeous.” — Out
“Giard is a unique talent, and this extraordinary collection is a life's
w o hr uk m; ai nn d e fe ad ce, t oh fe a w n o r ek n t io rf e m woa rn ly d . ”l i v —es . D G avi ia dr d M h . a s H ad lpo ec ru im n,e n at ued th ot rh ,e "6998-GZ9-4T9 10 (epeued 2 SN) EHE0-99E-008 IIB9 SH00q 19p10 0L
One Hundred Years of Homosexuality and Saint Foucault
332 pp., 184 illus. $45
Winter http1://mit9press.9mit.edu8 10 The MIT Press
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
an entire booth based on its book about the Sistine ated by an African-centered Christian church of the
Chapel a few years ago.) In addition to lending a same name, founded by Albert B. Cleage (yes, father
needed element of dignity to the entire show, it would of Pearl Cleage) in 1954. Each church features a huge
give many of us in the book trade an opportunity to mural of the Black Madonna and child, the Madonna
express our gratitude for this book and all the work of course as a symbol of protection and nurturance,
that went into its making. —CS and the child as a symbol of every child who must be
nurtured. Liberation Theology credits these images as
*The Shrine of the Black Madonna Bookstores one of the several roots of contemporary womanist,
(Atlanta, Houston, and Detroit) are owned and oper- woman-oriented theology and imagery.
Sometimes it just takes one person with a vision, diverse cities in the
one person to put their money where their dreams are, world, has such a lily-
to turn a few things over. Walter Mosley has done it in white work force. (At
a big way — twice — in the last two years. the managerial and
Inspired by a comment made during a PEN Open professional levels,
Book Committee panel that successful Black authors only 3.4% of employ-
should occasionally publish books with Black pub- ees are Black, and 1.8%
lishers, Mosley decided to do it and placed the prequel are Latina/o, according ,
to his bestselling, five-book Easy Rawlins mystery to Federal figures.) White women, not to mention
series, Gone Fishin’, with Black Classic Press. Black women of color, have also had a hard time gaining
Classic, which publishes both long-lost treasures from access to publishing’s i of power, as was outlined
African American literature and important work by in an article in PW’s 150% anniversary issue earlier this
contemporary authors, released the hardcover edition year. Why these barriers exist wasn’t the interesting
in January 1997. (The mass market edition will be question; what to do about it, however, captured
released this February by Pocket Books.) Publisher Mosley’s imagination.
Paul Coates and Mosley took the book — and the idea A graduate of the City College of New York’s
— on tour. Could Mosley have sold more copies of this MFA program, he approached City College President
book if he had stayed with a mainstream publisher? Yolanda Moses with an idea: a publishing program to
There will probably never be a final answer to that equip students with the skills they need to be success-
question. But one thing is clear: he kept the revenue ful in publishing, and a program of paid internships
from the book in the Black community, generated to get them in the door. Mosley put up $10,000 of his
income for a Black press, and brought national atten- own money as a seed grant to launch the program.
tion to that particular press and to Black publishing in City College said yes, appointed David Unger
general. No need to ask if Mosley believes we still need (who also serves as the U.S. representative for the
Black and other community publishers. Hopefully his Guadalajara Book Fair) as the program's director and
action will inspire other writers — Black, feminist, and Catherine McKinley (previously of PEN’s Open Book
gay — to do likewise. Committee and the Feminist Press, and co-editor of
Shortly after the Gone Fishin’ sale was negotiated, Afrekete) as associate director, and launched four
the mystery writer decided to take action on another classes last September. The first students will be ready
“mystery:” Why the New York publishing industry, to begin their internships in May. Forty-five students,
located in one of the most cosmopolitan and culturally ranging from undergraduates to MA's, and including
Volume 20 Number 5/6 11 Winter 1998
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
experienced journalists and community organizers, writers such as William Styron, John Updike, Terry
have already signed up. When the program is fully McMillan, and Stephen King. Mosley and City
funded, it will offer 25 courses in three tracts: Editorial, College President Yolanda Moses are also approach-
Marketing & Advertising, and Design. ing top publishing executives with appeals for help
Will the Publishing Certificate Program challenge and internships.
the too-white nature of mainstream publishing? The program, in addition to offering classes in
Undoubtedly: 95% of the participants to date are Black, everything from publishing children’s books to com-
Latina/o or Asian. City College, Catherine McKinley puter skills and intensive editing and proofreading
points out, is a perfect venue for this program — it’s a classes, also includes the eclectic and already-popular
subway ride away from most NYC-based publishers Thursday Night Lecture Series, structured mentoring
and 80% of its student body are people of color. programs for students with both junior- and senior-
With the program launched, the next challenge is level staff, and workshops on interviewing skills and
raising $700,000 to finance the program, internships, workplace politics. The Thursday Night Series is
supervision, and visiting lectureships for the next five open to the public and features one-night discussions
years. About a third of the money and eight paid on everything from “The Role of the Publicist” to
internships have already been secured. Several New “The Independent Press” and “Publishing the
York publishers, including Bantam Doubleday Dell, ‘Unpublishable: New Markets in Conservative
have already made — or are in the process of making Times;” from “Children’s Book Editing and Trends in
— financial commitments to the program and com- Multicultural Children’s Publishing” to “The Role of
mitments to paid internships. The fundraising plan the Literary Agent” and “How Books Are Composed
includes setting aside money to finance internships in and Manufactured.”
non-commercial houses that don’t have funds to pay Individuals, publishers, and foundations inter-
interns so as to offer students access to the broadest ested in supporting the program, committing to
possible range of opportunity. internships, providing mentoring support for
To aid in the fundraising efforts, Mosley is send- students, or participating in the Thursday Night Series
ing personal letters appealing for support from are encouraged to call Catherine McKinley at 212-650-
authors in the upper tier of the literary classes — 7927, or David Unger at 212-650-7925. —CS O
Paul Coates remembers Diana Press well. “They shops. Black-owned presses come out of a similar
had a good crew and turned out some quality pieces,” tradition and have a history — and a need — that goes
he says, in that thoughtful tone that printers use to back to the abolition movement, just as the earliest
evaluate other printers work. women-owned print shops go back to the early
“Freedom of the press belongs to those who own suffrage movement in places as diverse as England
the presses,” was what feminists learned in the sixties and Mexico.
and early seventies. Male-run print shops (and there In the seventies and early eighties, the dream
weren't any other print shops) could and did refuse to was to own a web press, the large high-speed presses
print feminist newspapers, articles and books, they used to print large circulation newspapers and mass
found offensive — or just didn’t like. It didn’t happen market books in quantities of tens and hundreds of
often, but the threat was always there, on every issue thousands cheaply.
of every publication, with every book published. But the technology has changed again. The new
It was out of such experiences that women like dream is a long, low, comparatively quiet machine
the Diana Press crew started women-owned print that looks for all the world like a long photocopy
Winter 1998 12 Volume 20 Number 5/6
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
machine with a computer attached — called a
DocuTech — which prints entire books in a matter of
minutes. Two copies of a 130-page book in two
minutes. Two copies of a 270-page book in four.
Black Classic Press had the dream (“That old
movement stuff gets into your blood and never
leaves,” Paul acknowledged). And in December, 1995,
Black Classic acquired a Xerox DocuTech 135-2.
Financially it’s very expensive. Politically it’s
very rewarding. “Having the DocuTech gives the
Black community a kind of technological parity that
wasn't there before. We have to do enough business to
pay for the machine but, here in Baltimore, people can
walk in and see the machine and talk to the operator.
That creates an accessibility, not just to the technology
but to possibilities, that wasn’t there before.” ` CD/CS R2/R4 72881 SLP $15.98/$10.98
Financing has been totally creative. DocuTechs
cost about $300,000. Xerox has a program, similar to
a lease, that includes the DocuTech, trimming and
binding equipment, and provides a skilled operator
that costs “about the same as buying a new Honda
Accord each month.” Black Classic Press used a
combination of personal funds, loans, community
appeals and equity investment to finance the equip-
ment. Paul, his life partner, Cheryl Waters, and son
Damani Coates, also created BCP Digital Printing to
work with other small presses, institutions, churches,
and non-profit organizations to fill their printing
needs and generate the cash flow necessary to
support the DocuTech.
Ready access to short-run technology can allow
publishers to successfully publish books for a small
audience, to publish for direct mail customers In addition to allowing publishers to print smaller
(making it possible to order and pay for printing after quantities profitably, publishers save on prepress costs
the order is received), and to keep good books in print, (there is no film) and warehousing expenses. Per-book
even when demand is limited. printing costs are higher (about $4/unit), a figure that
Black Classic Press used the DocuTech to print becomes viable in certain short run situations, since the
several of their Fall titles, using a traditional offset number of copies printed is based on actual sales rather
press to print the covers for the books, then using the than projected, long-term sales.
DocuTech to print 200 copies of each “short-run” title. Eventually many publishers will do a mix of tradi-
When those copies sold BCP printed an additional 150 tional and on-demand printing, using offset to print the
copies. BCP has added a dozen titles to their list using initial run, and short-run to fill orders once the initial
this technology — books that don’t have a general demand is over, printing “extra” copies of the cover
trade market, but that are important to publish during the initial printing to use to bind the short-run
and/or return to circulation. (Black Classic still uses copies, and reverting to a more library-looking binding
traditional offset printing when it makes sense to print for books that will be sold to libraries or collectors,
2,000+ books at a time.) rather than from bookstore shelves. =CS. 0
Volume 20 Number 5/6 13 Winter 1998
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Videos to Celebrate
ah
istory đ
Vlonth a
Born in Flames Set It Off
Fantasy of female rebellion. Adelaide Norris is Queen Latifah plays a lesbian...
mysteriously killed and a seemingly impossible 173 Min. $19.95
coalition of women unite. 90 Min. $29.95 She Must Be Seeing Things
Girlfriends A love affair between two women is tested when one
Anthology of romantic and comedic shor t 8fil0ms . reMads tihne o.th e r’s$ d2iar9y..95 95 Min. $29.95
Girlstown She’s Safe
GirGls budody m ov ie FSafe isexs is h 9fu0n a nMd fiuSnn .t oM $wa1tc9h.L. 9Th5i s is 5 h5i'l ar ioMus.in. $19.95
Independent romantic comedy. A young girl living When Night is Falling
“the dyke lifestyle.” “One of the most sensual films about lesbian passion
95 Min. $19.95 ever made.” The Washington Blade
Incredibly True Adventure
of 2 Girls in Love
Delightful lesbian romantic comedy about two young
girls who experience the joys of first love together.
94 Min. $19.95
P
Valisa b Sasi Hanis Aris
The Naiad Press, Inc.
P.O. Box 10543 • Tallahassee, FL 32302
(850) 539-5965 • Fax (850) 539-9731 • 1-800-533-1973
Winter 1998 14 Volume 20 Number 5/6
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsResources
By Carol Seajay
Posters ior Display or Sale
I walked into Amazon Bookstore (Minneapolis)
and saw exactly the poster I had dreamed of for this
issue: A multicultural, multiethnic poster in warm talent and courage
vibrant colors featuring four women’s faces in a range of African American Women (Fannie
of browns and tans, with a small legend reading Lou Hamer, Alice Walker, Maya Angelou, Marian
“March is Women’s History Month,” and a header Wright Edelman, Mae Jemison), the Celebrating Black
that declares “We are all sisters.” This is the perfect Women’s History poster, the Writers and Performers of
backdrop for any window display whose agenda is the Harlem Renaissance postcard series, multicultural
that Women’s History Month isn’t just a white-girls Women in Science and Mathematics posters, the
thing. Available from the American Library Associa- Harriet Tubman Game for grades 2—6, the Telling Our
tion. $9. (See below for ordering information.) Stories: Women in Science CD-ROM that helps girls
How about a poster of Oprah reading Toni explore science careers while improving their com-
Morrison's Beloved? Or Whoopi Goldberg reading puter skills, and a great deal more. Call 707-838-6000
Nicolas Cricket? Have customers into Denzel! Washing- for a free catalog and their wholesale price list, or visit
ton, Spike Lee, or Bill Cosby? Amazon has the great their Web site at (www.nwhp.org).
Rosie O'Donnell poster, but also check out Michelle
Pfeiffer, Kristi Yamaguchi, Bette Midler, and Geena Syracuse Cultural Workers has an extensive
Davis. Feminist bookstores with Xena-fan clientele collection of posters, buttons, t-shirts and postcards
will want to stock up on the Xena poster featuring our that includes many multicultural and women’s
hero reading from a scroll under the caption “Van- images. Recent additions to their list include new Paul
quish Ignorance: Read.” All are available from ALA. Robeson and Che Guevara posters. Call or write for a
Xena posters are $8; others are $10, but $8 each for 5+. catalog if you don’t already get one. PO Box 6367,
Call 800-545-2433 and press #7 to order or call the Syracuse NY 13217; 315-474-1132.
same number, extension 5046, for a free catalog. You
can see a few of the images (Oprah and Xena) on Northern Sun’s poster collection ranges from
ALA's Web site (www.ala.org/market/graphics Sojourner Truth to Audre Lorde, and includes an excel-
/star_power.html) and (/parade.htmÌl). lent International Women’s Day poster and several of
Jane Evershed’s whimsical multicultural images on
The National Women’s History Project (founders both posters and t-shirts. For the girls, there's New
of National Women’s History Month) also offers a great Moon's “Listen to the Girls” poster featuring Asian,
collection of multicultural posters and other resources, African, and Northern European girls. Northern Sun
including many designed for school use, such as the Merchandising, 612-729-2001, or New Moon Publish-
twelve-poster Women of Hope series celebrating the ing, PO Box 3587, Duluth MN 55803; 800-381-4743.
15
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Where do you draw the line between “history” videos, audio books, CDs, clip art, stationery, and
and “contemporary”? Who cares! If your customers more. Cambria Heights, NY. 718-712-2300. Web site:
celebrate the historic connections between Black (www.tike.com/ads/blacast1.htm).
women and music check out Laura Irene Wade’s
w kio dn sd ).e r (f Su eel p “Kos it de sr ’ s , L i tc ”a r d fs o, r a on nd e t o- fsh i hrt es r ( if mor ag ea sd .)u l t Ls a u ran ad B bLo oio tk oes k r so an t u fW r oi en rg , s ch hi is lt do rr ey n, , s ae sl f - wh ee ll lp a sa n d au dh ie oa sl t h an, d n o vn idf eic ot si o in n,
I 2r 6e 7n -e 9 3 4W 4.ade, PO Box 23205, Lansing MI 48909; 517- Spanish. Books On Wings also fills special orders
for books from Spain, Argentina, Chile, and the rest
National Black Bookstore Week Bits of South and Central America. San Francisco.
415-285-1145.
ABA will once again co-sponsor and
create kits for National Black Bookstore Eastwind Books & Arts
Week (June 15—21), a national program Books, CDs, videos, calendars, and stationery items
to promote Black bookstores and their on/from Chinese and Asian American cultures. San
Francisco. 415-772-5899 for English titles; 415-772-
EENG US 3 work. Maya Angelou will serve as 5877 for Chinese titles. Web site: (www.eastwindsf
CONNECTED = spokesperson for the event once again
. W (see sidebar), and last year’s successful .com).
s logo and theme, “Keeping Us Con- Fondo de Cultural Economica USA
nected,” will repeat again this year. Books in Spanish. San Diego. 800-532-3872.
Do community-serving bookstores need to
organize these kinds of promotional and educational Hispanic Book Distributors
events? “Absolutely,” said co-organizer Clara Bilingual and Spanish-language books and period-
Villarosa, founder of the Hue-Man Experience Book- icals. Tucson. 800-634-2124; 520-690-0643.
store in Denver. “If we don’t let people know who we La Moderna Poesia
are, no one else will do it. We're strong and we're not Spanish-language titles. Coral Gables, FL. 305-446-9884.
going to give up.” National Black Bookstore Week
takes that message to the community and to the indus- Libreria Del Lobo
try. NBBW kits will be available to both ABA member Spanish-language books, videos, audios, CDs, and
stores and non-member stores. To order copies of the sidelines. Gaithersburg, MD. 301-438-7116. Web site:
kit, call 800-637-0037, ext.283. (www.libreriadellobo.com).
Distributors M Nan ay t F ie vath ee rs ABoo mks ean rd i cM aap ns and Southwest-regional titles.
These distributors specialize in not-commonly-available Phoenix, AZ. 800-279-7652; 602-266-1043.
multicultural titles. See also the independent and small press
distributors listed in the “From Our Own Presses” column. Multicultural Distributing Center
Multicultural, multilingual children’s books and edu-
Afrikan World Books cational materials. El Monte, CA. 800-LEP-HELP;
Black-interest products including books for both 626-575-1000. Web site: (www.greenshower.com) or
adults and children, audios, videos, calendars, games. (www.story-on-line.com).
Baltimore. 410-383-2006.
Schoenhof’s Foreign Books
Bilingual Publications 54,000 titles including imported fiction, nonfiction, and
Books in Spanish, including contemporary Latin children’s books from Europe and Latin America in a
American fiction, general self-help, children’s, and number of languages. Cambridge, MA. 617-547-8855.
audios. New York. 212-431-3500.
Shen’s Books & Supplies
BlaCast Entertainment Asian, Asian American, Spanish, Mexican, and
mater iA al s d i (v ine cr ls ue d ic no gl le gct ifio tn w o rf a p )c ,a r pd ls u, s c a bl oe on kd sa ,r s 7, 0 0K +wanzaa E8ast0er0n - E4ur5op6ea-n6 c6hi6ld0re;n ’s 6lit2er6atu-r4e. 4 A5rc-ad6ia9, 5CA8.. O
Winter 1998 16 Volume 20 Number 5/6
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Humor, ı rOMOMNCe ANd intrigue. ..
3 Love Ruins Ever nyovtel h byi n wgrit.e.r. a ntd h edeit or m Karuenc Xh. - Taulnchtiniskcyi.pated first
Live y “Ma. I’m stiU a lesbian.”
“Shah.” She makes a brisk downward
motiow iw the air with her hand. “I
ever ything
Pdeoowptl e w aarnet ctoom- i nhge a ro v etrh.at word today.
Love Ruins Everything features a delightful cast of
characters who delve into the tempestuous minefields of family
relations, love and heartbreak, and the politics of AIDS—
eventually to find “the laugh in every tear."
Karen X. Tulchinsky will be touring in Boston at
OutWrite, as well as New York, San Francisco, Oakland,
Portland, Seattle, and cities across Canada.
Karen X. Fulehinshy
Available February 1998
ISBN: 0-88974-082-8 $14.95 US / $18.95 Cdn
Stock Up for Women’s History Month
Elana Dykewomows new novel Beyond the Pale is the
product of 10-years of research and an extraordinary gift for storytelling.
Beyond the Pale charts the lives of Jewish women who emigrated from Russia
to New York's East Side at the turn of the century.
Finalist for the 1997 American Library Association'‘s
Gay/Lesbian/Bisexual Book Award
ISBN: 0-88974-074-7 $15.95 US / $19.95 Cdn
Distributed in the U.S. by LPC Group, in Canada by General
Look for our full catalog, author readings and more on our website
www.pressgang.bc.ca
P.R ESS=GAN G PUBLISHERS
te1:604/876-7787 fax:604/876-7892 email:pgangpub@portal.ca
Volume 20 Number 5/6 17 Winter 1998
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
ROUIL ED hrating Women
JEWISH WOMEN IN AMERICA
An Historical Encyclopedia
Edited by Paula Hyman and Deborah Dash Moore
“nAn a itmpionrtagnt c onbtreibudtisoni dto e U . S.r heisatordy,i nwogme.n”’s h ist—ory, JeGwislho hristioary — anSd t feascii-nem
1800 pp 500 b/w photos $250.00/hb 2 volumes
PERPETUA’S PASSION PERPETUA'S PASSION
The Death and Memory of a Young Roman Woman
Joyce E. Salisbury
“...Salisbury’s well-annotated look at Perpetua’s martyrdom is clear, thorough,
insightful and less a portrait of the person than of the sociopolitico-religious
context in which she lived and died. Salisbury’s sharp analysis strips away
gehnereatironss eof l pfatr.ia rc haAl r ev isi—onismP tuo lbet l tihes yhouneg r ro’msan mWatrone sepeakk lfoyr
240 pp 11illus $19.95/pb
WOMEN IMAGINE CHANGE
A Global Anthology of Women’s Resistance from 600 B.C.E. to Present
Edited by Eugenia C. DeLamotte, Natania Meeker, and Jean F. O'Barr
This anthology of works from over thirty countries combines a broad theoretical
perspective on gender and resistance with vivid biographical context. Included
are: Paula Gunn Allen, Susan B. Anthony, Ida B. Wells Barnett, Angela Davis, Sor
Juana Ines de la Cruz, Hildegard of Bingen, Audre Lorde, Fatima Mernissi, Cherré
WMoragoa, l Hlirsattsukoa nRaiechoc, rMaab f Segtre.st , R|u by 4Th8om0pso n, apndp M ar y$29.99/pb
Chicana Feminist Thought Community Activism The Second Wave
The Basic Historical Writings and Feminist Politics A Reader in Feminist Theory
Edited by Alma M. Garcia Organizing Across Race, Class, Edited by Linda Nicholson
Chicana Feminist Thought recovers the and Gender This volume collects many of the
c s M 4h o f io 1f oi o oms 6 r n vt gCo se ee , p r mh d pi i t c eac h a n na al e $n t d 2 .a cc 4 goo . ce 9f ln onl 9e net /dm cr f peti li rb i bin v c u i tet s c s i t o o s s nn wt t rs w r i u t ah g ho do gf ii ncs lee t a io tta hng c o est e , in v o Ce v tir hs eema n irt c- -i ao nn o w c bo“E e e. eu. s t.d l sp tls f, eri u rot l ao e sff t d e h e v a e t —em r ih re r Sb a y at i d nty cn a h o dp y mi e rr s a o m N t ecg fo M ura fn ne oon ts s i rris to n gic t iv esu ecy s e nii . , n ,o a g f ” le OA x a r wc n e. i s ot gdci m o n i N neg oe nf, na t U p er c t nni ol e ig ve o ess r u r- i scs i- t y alive and m p h c i a 4n to 1a e ea gns 6r dj t teo r r t p if e ha pb xo r ie ur s te s t e $t s i ny 2a o pty 2s n eh i .s rs v 9y o i 9es e o o e /ta d f o pr d s b w i . a sf f nh c e e uT dim mc sh h s i ie w in n o i i h nhs e s it .a ts cv s h a et ty h h s hme e ao oai vr rn d ey yc e l u g o dkd ef ue ne ryd e-t rh -e
368 pp $22.99/pb
R(8ou0t0le)d g e6 3Cu4s-to7m0e6r4 Se rFvAiceX (800) 248-4724 w *w Prw ic.r eso u t al re ed g se u.c bo jm ect to change. 390J71LN04
Winter 1998 18 Volume 20 Number 5/6
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
To supplement our roundups of new books for Don’t Believe the
Black History and Women’s History Months, we asked Hype: Fighting Cultural f, La =
a number of feminist and African American book- Misinformation About Mums
sellers what books they thought other booksellers African Americans by
should know about and promote in their displays. Farai Chideya. $11.95 pb,
We weren't necessarily looking for bestsellers, 0451170960, Plume/Penguin USA.
but for booksellers’ favorite books — the books they Black Empire by George S. Schuyler. This is not
like to hand-sell, books that others might not know a traditional book. It’s a novel about a doctor who
about, books they feel are important and simply must had a plan to transform the Black community. Writ-
be stocked in a comprehensive Women’s Studies or ten in the 1930s, most people considered it science
Black History section year-round, and books that are fiction. Until recently, no one knew that the author
simply a good read. was a Black person. Part of the Northeastern Library
To generate a rich and varied list, we asked differ- of Black Literature series. $15.95 pb, 1555531687,
ent booksellers different questions. Some responded Northeastern University Press.
with passionate annotations, some sent lists of books Destruction of Black Civilization: Great Issues
that speak for themselves. Some focus on Black of a Race from 4500 B.C. to 200 A.D. by Chancellor
History Month, some on Women’s History Month, Williams. A book that deals with issues of African
and some on both. All of the responses were generous American history. $16.95 pb, 0883780305, Third
and in the spirit of cooperation and mutual support World Press.
between our bookselling communities. Before the Mayflower: A History of Black
America by Lerone Bennett. A classic that everyone
African Spectrum Bookstore should have and read. $16.95 pb, 0140178228,
Atlanta, GA Penguin USA.
Suggestions contributed by Nemasengere Mutota. Developmental Psychology of the Black Child
by Amos N. Wilson. One of the few books that
Black History Month explores the psychological development of Black
The Between: A Novel by Tananarive Due. This children. $10 pb, 0686241835, Africana Research
very complex book is a supernatural mystery. It’s the Publications.
first book of this type written by a Black person. Not The Black Jacobins: Toussaint L'Ouverture and
quite Stephen King — it’s about a guy living between the San Domingo Revolution by C.L.R. James. A
two worlds: dream and real. $13 pb, 0060927267, history of Haiti, including the Haitian revolution. $14
HarperPerennial. pb, 0679724672, Vintage/Random House.
My Soul to Keep by Tananarive Due. Another Sisters of the Yam: Black Women and Self-
supernatural mystery; this one is about an immortal. Recovery by bell hooks. $14 pb, 0896084566, South
$24 cl, 0060187425, HarperCollins. End Press. Distributed by LPC /InBook.
19 Winter 1998
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Afrocentric Bookstore a lot of areas that others touch on briefly. $45 cl,
Chicago, IL 0679430873, Knopf/Random House.
Suggestions contributed by Wally Haastrup. Books by Ivan Van Sertima:
African Presence in Early America ($20 pb,
Black History Month 0887387152), African Presence in Early Asia ($20 pb,
Anything by Frederick Douglass, Marcus 0887387179), African Presence in Early Europe ($20 pb,
Garvey, Martin Luther King, Jr. — historical books are 0887386644), Blacks in Science: Ancient and Modern
some of the various kinds of books we focus on for ($20 pb, 0878559418), Egypt Revisited: Journal of Afri-
Black History Month. The biggest thing in 1998 is can Civilizations ($20 pb, 0887387993), Egypt: Child of
going to be books on the Amistad. We're also expect- Africa ($20 pb, 1560007923). All books published by
ing a lot of inventory covering different slave Transaction Publishers, 390 Campus Dr., Somerset NJ
narratives. 08873; 888-999-6778. 30% for 1-4 copies, 40% for 5—24.
From Slavery to Freedom: A History of African Books by Cheikh Anta Diop:
Americans by John Hope Franklin. This is an older Precolonial Black Africa: A Comparative Study
book, and I think it’s important to have in any collec- of the Political and Social Systems of Europe and
tion of works on Black history because Franklin covers Black Africa ($9.95 pb, 1556520883. Africa World
Press, 11-D Princess Road, Lawrenceville NJ 08648;
609-844-9583), Civilization or Barbarism: An
Authentic Anthropology ($17.95 pb, 1556520484,
Blues Legacies and Black Feminism: Lawrence Hill & Co. Distributed by Independent
Gertrude “Ma” Rainey, Publishers Group), The African Origin of Civiliza-
tion: Myth or Reality ($14.95 pb, 1556520727,
Bessie Smith, and Lawrence Hill & Co.).
Billie Holiday Books by Dr. Yosef A.A. Ben-Jochannan:
African Origins of Major Western Religions
SA ($24.95 pb, 0933121296), Black Man of the Nile and His
ECA Family ($24.95 pb, 0933121261), Africa: Mother of
Western Civilization ($34.95 pb, 0933121253). All
books published by Black Classic Press, PO Box 13414,
AND Angela Y. Davis Baltimore MD 21203; 410-358-0980. Distributed by PGW.
BLACK In a brilliant I also recommend books by Anthony Browder.
SNNN Amazon Bookstore
reinterpretation of
the tradition of Black Minneapolis, MN
Suggestion contributed by Mev Miller.
women blues singers,
Angela Davis Women’s History & Black History Months
RRITAN proposes that the Race, Gender & Work: A Multicultural Economic
popular music given AH mist oo tr ty a nof d W Juo lm ie e n M ai tn t h t ah eie . TU hn ii st e d is S mta yte s p eb ry so nT ae l r e ps ia c k L . for
voice by Gertrude “Ma” Rainey, Bessie Smith, and Billie both Women’s History Month and Black History
Holiday represents a black working-class, feminist Month. The book is a multicultural history of the U.S.
ideology and historical consciousness, and a celebration told from the perspective of women and people of color
of non-middle-class, non-heterosexual values. which provides a good historical overview of how this
country was built on the backs of women and people of
Pantheon 0-679-45005-X, hardcover, $27.50/C$38.50 color. It is an economic history, as well as a history of
Poster available: 0-676-53792-8 work, race and gender. $21 pb, 0896085376, South End
Press. Distributed by LPC/InBook.
Winter 1998 20
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
BlaCast Entertainment (distributor)
Cambria Heights, NY conscious society. Read Chapter 9 first, “The Space
Traders.” It sets the tone for the book as it is the story
Suggestions contributed by Edna Swan. of African Americans being traded and transported to
Black History Month outer space in exchange for gold, oil, and a pollution-
free country. $12 pb, 0465068146, Basic Books.
Here is a list of some of the current bestsellers and The Good Negress by A.J. Verdelle. The teacher,
books we at BlaCast find interesting: Miss Gloria Pearson, challenges Denise Palms’ intel-
Kwanzaa: Everything You Always Wanted to lect, just as the author challenges readers’ intellect
Know But Didn't Know Where to Ask by Cedric with her symbolism. In this debut novel, Verdelle
M Puc bC ll ie ss ht ee rr s. . $5.95 pb, 0936073241, Gumbs & Thomas s ph bo , w 0s 0 6t 0h 9a 7t 6 8 s 3h 7e , w Har rit pe es r P i en r e nt nh ie a l .vein of Toni Morrison. $12
0446 5' 2O 24n 2e 2 , B We at rt ne err B b ooy k s .Rosalyn McMillan. $22 cl, Throu gT hh e h H era n sd u pI e r F na an t u rW ali t h lo v b ey r, T Hin era m M anc ,E lr Lo ey n a A in s s a a. ble
The Original African Heritage Bible Study to get her physical and spiritual needs fulfilled be-
B 15ib 5l 5e 2/ 3K 7i 1n 1g 8 , J Wam ine ss t o V ne -r Ds ei ro en k b Py u b E lii sl hee en rs . Seitz. $32.50 cl, y seo en d h o h we r s hw ei l d ce anst ld etr e a tm hes . tH ower nm spa en o p a ll es o o fh e Mlp us l bL ee rn ra y to
Sister Rules by Delene Millner. $9.95 pb, become more self-reliant, and less dependent on her
0688156894, Quill / William Morrow & Co. generosity. $23.95 cl, 0385475993, Doubleday /BDD.
Sister to Sister: Devotions For and From African In Search of Satisfaction by J. California Cooper.
American Women edited by Suzan D. Johnson Cook. One man, a freed slave, two families — one Black, one
$10 pb, 0817012214, Judson Press. white — and two destinies for each of his daughters.
Spook Who Sat By the Door: A Novel (African The book covers the seven deadly sins and can be used
American Life Series) by Sam Greenlee. $6.95 pb, as an instructional guide by which to live. $10.95 pb,
1880800017; $39.95 video, D&J Books and Video. 0385467869, Anchor Books/BDD.
We also recommend all books by J. California Magic City by Jewell Parker Rhodes. Rhodes
Cooper, E. Lynn Harris and Iyanla Vanzant. presents a fictionalized account of true events that
[Above books are available from BlaCast Enter- occurred in 1921 that led to the demise of the “Negro
tainment. Ordering information in the resources Wall Street” in the Greenwood section of Tulsa, Okla-
section of this issue.] homa. A white woman and a Black man cross paths
Black Images Book Bazaar and become pawns in a game of death and destruc-
tion. $23 cl, 0060187328, HarperCollins.
Dallas, TX Nervous Conditions by Tsitsi Dangarembga. A
Suggestions contributed by Emma Rodgers. coming-of-age story set in Zimbabwe. Many women’s
Black History & Women’s History Months i as cs tu ee rs , a br ue t r aa li ss oe d b yb y s tn roo nt g o n sl ey co nt dh ae r y c e n chtr aral a c tf ee rm s a l ae n dchar-
Coming of Age in Mississippi by Anne Moody. passive women as well. $12 pb, 187806777X. Seal
Anne Moody demonstrates courage throughout her Press. Distributed by PGW, and available from vari-
entire life. She has something within that makes her ous wholesalers.
have the courage to stand up for herself and find a Only Twice I’ve Wished for Heaven by Dawn
way to pursue a college education with her talents. Turner Trice. Classism, sexism and survival are central
She is also a major player in the Civil Rights Move- themes of this coming-of-age story set in Chicago in
ment of the sixties. If you could only read one 1975. $23 cl, 0517704285, Crown Publishers/Random
autobiography, Anne Moody's Coming of Age in House.
Mississippi gets my vote. $6.99 pb, 0440314887, Rattlebone by Maxine Clair. A coming-of-age
Laurel / Dell. collection of eleven stories that interrelate to com-
Faces at the Bottom of the Well: The Permanence prise a novel set in an African American community
of Racism by Derrick Bell. Bell presents snapshots of outside of Kansas City, Kansas. $9.95 pb, 0140248250,
encounters that are real for many people in our race- Penguin USA.
21 Winter 1998
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
These Same Long Bones by Gwendolyn M.
Parker. On the eve of the 50s civil rights movement,
the African American community in Durham, North
Carolina is self-contained with a mix of classes living
in the same neighborhood. Sirus McDougald is the
most prosperous Black and has the welfare of his
community at the pinnacle of his investments. The
white power structure, however, manipulates the
townspeople by using a divide-and-conquer tech-
nique to stir up the community. $10.95 pb,
0452274281, Plume/Penguin USA.
Tumbling by Diane McKinney-Whetstone. At
the dawn of gentrification in the 50s, a South Philadel-
phia neighborhood fights to retain its integrity. The
book is layered with subplots in which characters
struggle to keep their balance and find their identity.
$12 pb, 0684837242, Scribner /Simon & Schuster.
DOUBLE ALBUM SET FROM ONE OF THE WORLD’S Brigit Books
PREMIERE A CAPPELLA VOCAL ENSEMBLES! St. Petersburg, FL
Suggestions contributed by Patty Callaghan.
Black History Month
Song of Solomon by Toni Morrison. I know
everyone’s heard of it now because of Oprah, but it’s
one of my five favorite books ever and I have to
include it. $11.95 pb, 0452260116, NAL/ Penguin USA.
Available on CD and Cassette Their Eyes Were Watching God by Zora Neale
UPC# 0-18964-0667-2/4-7/1 Hurston. Rediscovered by Alice Walker, Zora Neale
Hurston’s novel of growing up in Florida. First pub-
On Tour Now! lished in 1937. $13 pb, 0060916508, HarperPerennial.
Jan. 3E Washington, DC Zami: A New Spelling of My Name by Audre
J J J Fea a an n n b.. . . P 1 pA8 1S 3-14 N B IS nee a drw in k a e n t lY aea po y r o, lk i R, sC , AoN IsY Na, CA L i 1n 0o r 4 8d t ,he . e F G r5 er 0 eo s dw . o i m$n 1g 4 C. 9u A5p p 9i 5bn 0, 1 H 90 ;a 8 r 9 8l 5e 09m 04 -1 7 2 7— 2 78 -. 1 B 0Cl 4a r 8c o .k s s Dia n in sg td r i P ble r us e tb s esi da , n B o— x
HF 31e 98b. 1 25 0-21 NG i r Fe Te a1n c fa erstle, IN by B F J, aI mng bra am la, y B a& : T . The Natural Woman’s Book of
Feb. e Greensboro, NC Personal Charms and Practical Rituals by Luisah
Feb. 26 Gainesville, FL Teish. A priestess of Oshun, Teish gives us the wisdom
M E MS la o] ar rle ac c h h M E 1 2eA x 7e:) S NS Ma on a r iv t n hA a ann n mt eno pan tai p oo h n, o ,, l T i M X sG A, A MN o r Rf i et cu oA a mlf . r mC o $ u e- 1 nA 4 l dt m aup te rb ir o,i a n c l a s0 n 0 E f6 2 of t5 ro i0 l q k 8 au 5 l l9 eb 8 te , rl t i a e e cHf e as s r, b p ayea brn o Sc u ai tAe n n F mt cr oa ronk rjcn eaio s c cw t o Tl .e chd ug lr te ue rea a n l d Rivers.
behavior: “Everyone speaks with an accent.” “Exotic,
>.. when applied to human beings, is racist.” $6 pb, no
isbn. Market Wimmin, Box 28, Indian Valley VA 24105.
Part of the Rounder Records Family of Labels 40% for 10+ copies, plus $1.50 postage; $2.50 postage
http://www.rounder.com on. 11—20.
Winter 1998 22
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Women’s History Month Asian T ah ne d V Pe ar cy if i cIn s Ii sd lae n: d A ern LA esn bt ih ao nl so g ay n d o f B iW sexr uit ai lngs by
When God Was a Woman by Merlin Stone. Women edited by Sharon Lim-Hing. Full of poetry,
Women’s real history before it was almost blotted out essays and stories; this book is another first of its kind.
by th We op mat er ni ’a sr c Why o. r k $ : 1 1 T h p eb , F i0 r1 st5 6 9 26 01 ,05 08 0X , Y H eaa rr sc : o u Wrt o m B er na ,ce. I 0t 9's 2 0a 8 w 1o 3n 9d 7e 6rf ,u l , S it sh to eu rg h t V-p ir so iv oo nk in g P r b eo so sk .. $ D1 i9 s.9 t5 r i p bb u, ted by
Cloth, and Society in Early Times by Elizabeth LPC/InBook. Available from Ingram, BP.
Wayland Barber. Shows women’s vital role in pre- Home Girls: A Black Feminist Anthology edited
industrial societies in the making of fabric — a craft by Barbara Smith ($15.95 pb, 0913175021, Kitchen
Wth .a Wt . m Na od re t o c ni v i &li z a Ct oi .on possible. $13 pb, 0393313484, T ina gb sle b P yr e s Rs a) d ia cn ald WTh omis e nB r i od fg e C oC la ol rle d e d M itey d B ba yc k : C hW err rit íe-
The Burning Times (video). How millions of Moraga and Gloria Anzuldúa ($11.95 pb, 091317503X,
women were murdered because of their healing Kitchen Table Press) are two books that totally shaped
powers — witches, midwives and crones —in Europe my feminism. They have to be on all feminist book-
from the fifteenth through the seventeenth centuries. store shelves. Kitchen Table: Women of Color Press,
$34.95, Direct Cinema. PO Box 40-4920, Brooklyn NY 11240.
Charis Books & More [Note: Kitchen Table titles are available from dis-
Atlanta, GA ot nri lb yu ; t o nr os pa hn od n, e w ce a l la sr e a t t o tl hd, i s b ty i m d ei )r . e c At l l oo wrd e er x t r(m a a i tl i m o er d fer or
Suggestions contributed by Sara Look. direct orders.]
Witches, Midwives and Nurses: A History of
Customers ask if we have a history section, and Women Healers by Barbara Ehrenreich and Deirdre
we do have one tiny women’s herstory shelf but it’s English. This is such a good, little, brief history of
frustrating: people just don’t buy books out of this women and healing, and women’s spirituality and the
section. Because of this we have these books mixed in history of healing and the connection to witches. $5.95
with other books all over the store: in Black Studies, pb, 0912670134, Feminist Press. Distributed by
Global Concerns, Lesbian & Gay Studies, etc. Consortium.
Women’s History Month Crazy Ladies Bookstore
Carryin’ On In the Lesbian and Gay South edited Cincinnati, OH
by John Howard. A new book on gay & lesbian history; Suggestions contributed by Laura Smith.
I think it’s a really groundbreaking book as the South
is a region that is often ignored. The book includes an Women’s History Month
article about Charis and the history of feminist book- What Every American Should Know About
stores. $18.95 pb, 0814735606, NYU Press. Women’s History: 200 Events That Shaped Our
Everyday Acts & Small Subversions: Women Destiny by Christine Lunardini. Great for someone
Reinventing Family, Community, and Home by who needs a resource for a project on women’s history
Anndee Hochman. This book changed my life. It’s in the U.S. $10.95 pb, 155850687X, Adams Media
about creating history, and the different ways women Corp. Available from Koen, Ingram.
do family, community and work. $12.95 pb, The American Women’s Almanac: An Inspiring
0933377258, Eighth Mountain Press. Distributed by and Irreverent Women’s History by Louise Bernikow.
Consortium. Amusing, little known snippets for women’s history
To Joy My Freedom: Southern Black Women’s fans. Good for someone preparing a presentation, and
Lives and Labors After the Civil War by Tera W. also just an interesting read. $16.95 pb, 0425156168,
Hunter. This book was brought to our attention by a Berkley Publishing Group.
customer, who raved about how wonderful and History of Women for Children by Vivian
important it was. $29.95 cl, 0674893093, Harvard Epstein. A good way to explain women’s history to
University Press. children. Written and illustrated (and published) by
23 Winter 1998
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Epstein. $6.95 pb, 0960100237; $13.95 cl, 0960100237. a concentration camp. [Note: The Pocket Books edition
VSE Publisher, 212 So. Dexter St., Denver CO 80246; of this book is currently out of stock. There is no reprint
303-322-7450. 40%, no minimum order. date set, but it is unlikely that they will let this book go
does your mama know? An Anthology of Black out of print. There is a different hardcover edition
Lesbian Coming Out Stories edited by Lisa C. Moore. currently available — Etty Hillesum: An Interrupted
A familiar FB-Net Catalog book. We sold out of these Life and Letters from Westerbork: The Diaries,
after the National Women’s Music Festival. A much- 1941-1943, with an introduction by Eva Hoffman.
needed collection of personal accounts that make up $27.50 cl, 0805048944, Henry Holt & Co.]
an important historical document. $19.95 pb, The Sacred Hoop: Recovering the Feminine in
0965665909. Redbone Press, PO Box 861, Decatur GA American Indian Traditions by Paula Gunn Allen.
30031; 404-815-8391. 40% for 3+ copies, free freight. $15 pb, 0807046175, Beacon Press.
And Then She Said: Quotations From Women
Around the World compiled by J.D. Zahniser. Great Hue-Man Experience
quotes for any use...and an interesting way to learn Denver, CO
about history. $10.95 pb, 0962483672. Caillech Press, Suggestions contributed by Clara Villarosa.
. 4 48 52 % M fi oc rh i g 5a +n cS ot p., ie sS . t . A vP aa iu lal b lM e N a t 5 5 B1 P0 ,2 ; B 6 &1 T2 ,- 2 K25 o- e9 n6 .47. Black History Month
Having Our Say: The Delany Sisters’ First 100 A Pictorial History of African Americans: From
Years by A. Elizabeth Delany and Sarah Louise 1619 to Present, edited. Quick and easy information
Delany. Many people have encountered the Delany with illustrations. $40 cl, 0517596660, Crown Pub-
sisters either through theatre or their books. This book lishers/Random House.
is a wonderful way to understand the history of these Before the Mayflower: A History of Black
two amazing women and Black history in general. America by Lerone Bennett. Comprehensive history
$11.95 pb, 0385312520, Delta/BDD. book. $16.95 pb, 0140178228, Penguin USA.
The Shaping of Black America: The Struggles
Full Circle Books and Triumphs of African Americans, 1619 to 1990s
Albuquerque, NM by Lerone Bennett. The forces that transformed Afri-
Suggestions contributed by Alice Trabaudo, Jan Lee, cans into African Americans. $13.95 pb, 0140175687,
Helene Vann, and Janet Newton. Penguin USA.
Warriors Don’t Cry: A Searing Memoir of the
Black History & Women’s History Months Battle to Integrate Little Rock Central High by
Incidents in the Life of a Slave Girl by Linda Melba Pattillo Beals. The story of the nine teenagers
Brent. $9 pb, 0156443503, Harvest /Harcourt Brace. who braved the mob to go to an integrated school. $12
Why History Matters: Life and Thought by Gerda pb, 0671866397, Pocket Books.
Lerner. $30 cl, 0195046447, Oxford University Press. Mutiny on the Amistad by Howard Jones. The
Memoirs from the Women’s Prison by Nawal El events that inspired the major motion picture of a
Saadawi. This is a startling fictional account of an slave revolt directed by Stephen Spielberg. $12.95 pb,
Egyptian woman’s fight against injustice. $13.95 pb, 0195038290, Oxford University Press.
0520088883, University of California Press.
Warriors Don’t Cry: A Searing Memoir of the Women’s History Month
Battle to Integrate Little Rock’s Central High by When and Where I Enter: The Impact of Black
Melba Patillo Beals. This book gives the reader a much Women on Race and Sex in America by Paula
needed perspective on the Civil Rights Movement Giddings. A comprehensive history of Black women.
from those who were most affected by it. $12 pb, $14 pb, 0688146503, William Morrow & Co.
0671866397, Pocket Books. A Shining Thread of Hope: The History of
An Interrupted Life by Etty Hillesum. An extraor- Black Women in America by Darlene Clark Hine and
dinary personal diary of Etty Hillesum’s experiences Kathleen Thompson. $27.50 cl, 076790110X, Broad-
during World War II, leading up to her extermination in way Books/BDD.
Winter 1998 24
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Marcus Books
G.M. James. In the Julian Richardson Associates pub-
San Francisco, CA lication, there is an introduction by none other than
Suggestion contributed by Karen Johnson. the great scholar, Egyptologist, psychologist, and edu-
Black History Month c Ga et oo rr g, e D Gr. . M A . s a J a G m. e sH i tl eli aa rr sd a I pI aI. r t I n t h t eh i vs e ip l o p ou fl a r h i sb to oo rk ic, al
Stolen Legacy by Professor George G.M. James, deception of the notion that the Greeks brought “the
and with an introduction by Asa G. Hilliard, III. “I light” to the world. What is thoroughly proven in Stolen
have seen the enemy and it is us.” —Pogo. With self- Legacy is that the light that Greece held up to Europe
esteem issues the predominate theme-of-the-day for was but a candle lit from the torch of the incredible
getting “right” with the world, what better time then wisdom of the Mystery System of the Blacks of North
now to back-up our growing self-respect with some Africa, commonly called Egyptians by the Greeks.
African megahistory! How ‘bout arming ourselves Theory by theory, the so-called Greek philosophy
with the knowledge that the African continent civi- is traced to its African origin. The “science of sciences”
lized the Western world by giving it the Arts and of Socrates, Plato, Aristotle, and Pythagoras are
Sciences, Religion and Philosophy? Not true, you say. dwarfed against their African origin, to a time as far
Then you need a copy of Stolen Legacy by George back as five thousand years before there even was a
GENDERED JUSTICE IN THE FEMALE ECONOMY
THE AMERICAN WEST The Millinery and Dressmaking Trades,
Women Prisoners in Men’s Penitentiaries 1860-1930
ANNE M. BUTLER WENDY GAMBER
Justice for all? Women who weren’t hemmed in
A rare glimpse into the world of female Gamber helps overturn the portrait of
prisoners in the early West. Drawing on wage-earning women as docile souls who
prison records as well as the words of the would find fulfillment only in marriage and
women themselves, Butler's investigation is motherhood.
shocking and poignant. Illus. Cloth, $39.95; Paper, $16.95
Illus. Cloth, $29.95 CANAAN BOUND
MANDY OXENDINE The African-American A HARD FIGHT FOR WE
E FC d oriH t ee wA d o rR b dyL bE C yS h a Wr lW ie ls l i. a H m a C c k LH e . n E AbeS nr dN r ry eU . wT sT MG LAr oe vWa it nR g EM N ui Cg pEr a Nt Ri oo . rn tR h ON Do Gve El RS FW Lr Eeo Sem Ld Ie o En m ’s A .i T n r S a CSn Hos u Wit ti h Ao Ln MC af rr oo lm in a Slavery to
Too shocking for its time!
tI i un nh s ge a b l f oa ton t hreo v e in atl i s n rr e otte miej me e ac n net t ,e c hd e C hc ab e nay n r d lt eua s a r y m W m a .a yj o s s r C t et h rop e yo su n b usl ii h nts to vh c oe k lbr v- r - ii nn gs T t Ah ishh o f ae m rn a i e c G s ads nr i e x -e h f Aa io t n mpm i i n eM nil rggli i ig co ar en f nva ot e r i b no ll it n a fb c— eek o tt fs t ah e n e rf p d r o e o slix atm v -o e e d cs mu e t ns h ai tnne rio c r a if lpt h a sm t feo i eu oo at nNr the uoe rrr etn h— w M T“A hr a esi t t p t e cel r oe n s ua .s ” ru o a r f g—e e S t m aSo nt ae d lpr l he va Wa id n g! oi o e r r B l dr M s wis c ik C tl huy r r wa yn h, d i c a h up t o h Ain o frt re i d col afy n-
oin fg t htw e o c oc lh orar a lc it ne er .s who walk on both sides o Cf l otw te hn ,t ie t $h 2-c 9en .9tu 5r ;y b Pl aac pk e rlit ,e r a $tu 1r 4e. .95 A dum re inr gic a n an dw o am fte en r f to hu eg h Ct i v if lo r W t ah r e i ar r e f r fe ie rd mom ly at
Cloth, $27.50; Paper, $11.95 the center of this groundbreaking study.
Illus. Cloth, $49.95; Paper, $24.95
25
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
“Greece.” This book has inspired much-heated debate Truth requires the courage to be free. You can do
amongst current historians because it proves Africa, not it! $8.95 pb, 0917138090. Julian Richardson Associates,
Greece, is the Mother of Western Civilization. Asa G. Publishers, 1712 Fillmore St., San Francisco CA 94115;
Hilliard III, in the introduction to Stolen Legacy says: 415-346-4222. 30% for 1—9 copies, 40% for 10—49.
L“M ege an ct ya ,l tb ho en d qa ug ee s t i is o n sin v wis hi ib cl he v ario el e n puce r. s.. u. e dIn a rS et o l se on straight- Marrow of Tradition
forward and parsimonious, one wonders why they had Akron, OH
not been asked before in this combination. Who were the Suggestions contributed by Nathan Oliver.
Greek scholars? Where did they go to school? What did
they learn in school? How old was the subject matter Black History & Women’s History Months
which they learned? Who were their teachers?” Anything by bell hooks, but especially Sisters of
In the chapter “Social Reformation Through the the Yam ($14 pb, 0896084566, South End Press,
New Philosophy of African Redemption,” Professor distributed by LPC/InBook); Angela Davis; Alice
James states, “In this way, the Greeks stole the Legacy Walker; Zora Neal Hurston, especially Their Eyes
of the African Continent and called it their own and, Were Watching God ($13 pb, 0060916508, Harper-
as has already been pointed out, the result of this Perennial).
. w d oi rsh ldo n oe pst iny i o h na ; s t hb ae te n t ht eh e A c fr re icat anio n C oo nf t i nan en te r r mo an de eo u ns o Meristem
contributions to civilization, because her people are Memphis, TN
backward and low in intelligence and culture. Suggestions contributed by Audrey Jane May.
This erroneous opinion about Black people has
seriously injured them through the centuries up to These are in no particular order and are not
modern times...” divided by category (fiction, non-fiction, etc.) There’s
more non-fiction here than fiction — most of the
fiction writers are better known.
The usual suspects: Maya Angelou, Toni Morrison,
Audre Lorde, Alice Walker, Nikki Giovanni, the Delany
Sisters, bell hooks. Also:
Coming of Age in Mississippi by Anne Moody.
$6.99 pb, 0440314887, Laurel /Dell.
Warriors Don’t Cry: A Searing Memoir of the
Battle to Integrate Little Rock Central High by Melba
Pattillo Beals. $12 pb, 0671866397, Pocket Books.
Silver Rights by Constance Curry. $13 pb,
0156004798, Harcourt Brace.
Meridian by Alice Walker. Wonderful and usu-
ally overlooked. $6.99 pb, 067172701X, Pocket Books.
Dinner at Aunt Connie’s House by Faith Ring-
gold. $4.95 pb, 0786811501; $16.95 cl, 1562824252,
the E ed nu tc ia rt eio n fa al m c ila yr d c rg ea am tee s a f to er rrific Hyper i Bo rn o. t hA eg rse s a n4 d t o S i s8 t. ers by Bebe Moore Campbell.
opportunity for add-on sales. $6.99 pb, 0425149404, Berkley Publishing Group.
Adventures in knowledge from U.S. Games Systems, Inc. Jubilee by Margaret Walker. $6.99 pb,
203-353-8400 « O1r7d9e rL u Ddeloskw U . 8SS 0t. 0r - eG 5 ee4A -t m4,M - a2ES i6 ltS 3a 7 m US S Yf+ GoS rT a Fd mE A,M eX sSC @ ,T 2 I a0 N o03 l6C - .93 c.0 o5 m23 - 8U4S3A1 SUYSÝ S. T EGMASM, E ISNC 0 n5 o5 3 i2 s7 bC3 nu8 . 3 lt 3 Mu, r a a rB l k a n eE tt t a i m q Wu e i mtB to meo k inbs y ,. BA om x o j 2a 8 , T h Inr de ie a n R i Vve alr ls e. y $ 6 V A pb,
24105. 40% for 10+ copies, plus $1.50 postage; $2.50
postage on 11—20.
Winter 1998 26
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
The Black and White of It by Ann Allen Shockley. only; no phone calls at this time). Allow extra time for
$7.95 pb, 0930044967, Naiad Press. Available at various direct orders.]
wholesalers. Black Feminist Thought: Knowledge, Con-
For Colored Girls Who Have Considered
sciousness, and the Politics of Empowerment by
Suicide When the Rainbow Is Enuf: A Choreopoem Patricia Hill Collins. $18.99 pb, 0415905974,
by Ntozake Shange. $5.95 pb, 0020248911, Macmillan. Routledge.
Afrekete: An Anthology of Black Lesbian Speaking Truth to Power by Anita Hill. $24.95 cl,
Writing edited by Catherine McKinley and L. Joyce 0385476256, Doubleday/BDD.
Delaney. $14 pb, 0385473559, Anchor Books/BDD. Pauli Murray: The Autobiography of a Black
Just Us Women by Jeannette Caine. $5.95 pb, Activist, Feminist, Lawyer, Priest and Poet by Pauli
0064430561, HarperTrophy. Ages 4 to 8. Murray. $18.95 pb, 0870495968, University of Tennes-
‘Anything by Virginia Hamilton (Afro-centric see Press.
children’s books and folk tales). But Some of Us Are Brave: Black Women’s
Life Notes: Personal Writings by Contemporary Studies edited by Gloria T. Hull, Patricia Bell-Scott,
Black Women edited by Patricia Bell-Scott. $12 pb, Barbara Smith. $15.95 pb, 0912670959, Feminist Press.
0393312062, W.W. Norton & Co. Available from Consortium and various wholesalers.
Double Stitch: Black Women Write About
The Memphis Diary of Ida B. Wells edited by
Mothers and Daughters edited by Patricia Bell-Scott. Miriam DeCosta-Willis. $14 pb, 0807070653, Beacon
$13 pb, 0060975032, HarperPerennial. Press.
Pushed Back to Strength: A Black Woman’s Erotique Noire: Black Erotica edited by Miriam
Journey Home by Gloria Wade-Gayles. Short essays DeCosta-Willis, Reginald Martin, Roseann P. Bell.
by Audre Lorde, Barbara Smith and Jewelle Gomez. $14.95 pb, 0685423098, Anchor Books/BDD.
$11 pb, 038072426X, Avon Books. Everyday Acts Against Racism: Raising
The Gilda Stories: A Novel by Jewelle Gomez. Children in a Multiracial World edited by Maureen
$11.95 pb, 093237994X, Firebrand Books. Available Reddy. $15.95 pb, 187067850, Seal Press. Distributed
from LPC/InBook and various wholesalers. by PGW, and available from various wholesalers.
Black Women in America: An Historical From the Mississippi Delta: A Memoir by
Encyclopedia edited by Darlene Clark-Hine. $49.95 cl, Endenesha Ida Mae Holland. $23 cl, 0684810115,
0253327741, Indiana University Press. Available from Simon & Schuster.
Ingram.
The Black Woman’s Gumbo Ya-Ya: Quotations Phenix Information &
by Black Women edited by Terri L. Jewell. $10.95 pb, Entertainment Center
0895945797, Crossing Press. Available from various San Bernadino, CA
wholesalers. Suggestions contributed by Joann Roberts.
Yours in Struggle: Three Feminist Perspectives
on Anti-Semitism and Racism by Elly Bulkin, M.B. Black History Month
Pratt and Barbara Smith. $11.95 pb, 0932379532, Fire- Black Labor, White Wealth: The Search for
brand Books. Available from LPC/InBook and Power and Economic Justice by Claud Anderson.
various wholesalers. This particular book speaks a lot about African Ameri-
Home Girls: A Black Feminist Anthology edited cans doing for themselves, creating jobs, owning and
by Barbara Smith. $15.95 pb, 0913175021, Kitchen possessing things so we are not dependent upon
Table Press. federal money. $14.95 pb, 1878647148. Duncan &
This Bridge Called My Back edited by Cherríe Duncan, 2809 Pulaski Hwy, Edgewood MD 21040;
Moraga and Gloria Anzuldúa. $11.95 pb, 091317503X. 410-538-5579. 20% for 1—4 copies, 40% for 5—24. Avail-
Kitchen Table: Women of Color Press, PO Box 40-4920, able from Ingram.
Brooklyn NY 11240. Bible Legacy of the Black Race: The Prophecy
[Note: Kitchen Table titles are available from dis- Fulfilled by Joyce Andrews. Kind of self-explanatory;
tributors and, we are told, by direct order (mail order background information on Blacks in the bible. $12.95
27 Winter 1998
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
086543171X. Africa World Press, 11-D Princess Road,
“Compelling ...an honest, inside Lawrenceville NJ 08648; 609-844-9583.
view of one of America’s most controversial Before the Mayflower: A History of Black
religious movements.”—KIRKUS REVIEWS America by Lerone Bennett. Gives all the basics from
Africa through the middle passage to the latest
knowledge on lynchings. This is the sixth edition of
this classic which was first published in the 1960s and
is updated every ten years. $16.95 pb, 0140178228,
Penguin USA.
Power, Passion & Pain of Black Love by
Jawanza Kunjufu. This book discusses the current
condition of African American male and female rela-
tionships. $10.95 pb, 0913543365, African American
Images. Available from Ingram.
And I'd like to add two fun books:
Sister, Sister by Eric Jerome Dickey. This is simi-
lar to a Terry McMillan novel, except it was written by
a man; Waiting to Exhale from a male point of view.
Dickey’s new book, Friends and Lovers ($23.95 c|,
0525941274, Dutton/Penguin USA), is also good.
$5.99 pb, 0451188020, Signet /Penguin USA.
Tryin’ to Sleep in the Bed You Made by Virginia
Deberry, Donna Grant. This is basically a novel by
Growing Up in the Nation of Islam and about best friends. $6.50 pb, 0312963130, St.
Martin’s (mass).
Little X © Sonsyrea Tate © 0062511351 A Room of One’s Own
& HarperSanFrancisco Madison, Wi
A Division of Harper Co Pllin sP ub Alishe rs P E R B A C K Suggestions contributed by Sandi Torkildson.
Women’s History Month
pb, 1555235514. Winston-Derek Publishers, 1722 West All the books by Gerda Lerner are important to
End Ave., Nashville TN 37203; 615-321-0535. 20% for keep in stock. The Creation of Patriarchy ($13.95 pb,
1 In-9 g r ac mop .ies, 35% for 10—24, 45% for 25+. Available from 0 C1 r9 e5 a0 ti5 o1 n8 5 8 o, f O Fx ef mo ir nd i s tU n Ci ov ner scsi it oy us nP er se ss : s ) F ra on md T thh ee
God Made Me Beauty-Full: Building Self- Middle Ages to Eighteen-Seventy ($15.95 pb,
Esteem in African American Women by Terri 0195090608, Oxford University Press) cover the
McFaddin. This is a book about building self-esteem origins of the collective dominance of women by men
in African American women, which is so important and give us a grand historical framework of the sub-
right now. The author also sheds light on how African ordination òf women. Lerner documents a 1200-year
American women have a distorted standard for de- struggle of women to free their minds from patriar-
fining our own beauty. $12 pb, 1884743056, Quiet chal thought, to create Women’s History.
Time Pub. Labor of Love, Labor of Sorrow: Black Women,
Mis-education of the Negro by Carter Godwin Work, and the Family from Slavery to the Present by
Woodson. This book is a classic, and something Jacqueline Jones looks at the complex interface of
everyone should have on their shelf and read. Wood- work, sex, race and class. $15 pb, 0394745361,
son is the father of Black History Month. $9.95 pb, Vintage/Random House.
Winter 1998 28
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
A Century of Women: The History of Women with her fascinating characters, expanding their story
i in s h B r i hta ii sn t o a rn id a n t h e S hU en iit laed RSt oa wtes b. o T th his a m bo o k is b y a B rr eit a- dable $in 2 4 .d 9e 5e p ce lr , 0an 52d 5 9 e 4v 1e 0n 9 6 ,m o Dr ue t t om na /g Pi ec nal gly ui n c o Um Sp Ae .lling ways.
narrative that charts the remarkable changes and Dorothy Dandridge: A Biography by Donald
interchanges in the lives of British and American Bogle. The biography documents the story of a trou-
women over the last 100 years. $34.95 cl, 0670874205, bled but strong family of women and vividly recreates
Viking/Penguin USA. Dandridge’s relationships with an array of personali-
Sojourner Truth: A Life, A Symbol by Nell Irvin ties such as Otto Preminger, Sammy Davis Jr., Pearl
Painter is a blend of scholarship and sympathetic Bailey, Harry Belafonte, Diahann Carroll, Peter
understanding that goes beyond the myths to uncover Lawford, Ava Gardner, and many more. Always at the
the life of a complex woman. $14.95 pb, 0393317080, center, though, is Dorothy Dandridge, magnetic and
W.W. Norton & Co. compelling. $27.95 cl, 1567430341, Amistad Press. Dis-
Sisterspace and Books — Bt &r Ti .buted by St. Martin’s Press. Available at Ingram,
African American Women’s
Books The Serpents Gift by Helen Elaine Lee. This
unforgettable novel lyrically portrays the stories of two
Washington D.C. African American families who are united by death but
Suggestions contributed by Faye Williams. go on to live, love, and survive. These memorable
Black History & Women’s History Months c fh amar ia lc yt ,e r ts h el iv pe os w a er re o a f t se ts ot ra ym te en llt in gt ,o at nh de ts htr ee n tg rt ah n s fo of rma-
Black Feminist Thought: Knowledge, Con- tion achieved through both joy and sorrow. $12 pb,
sciousness, and the Politics of Empowerment by 0684801604, Scribner /Simon & Schuster.
Patricia Hill Collins. In spite of the double burden of My Soul to Keep by Tananarive Due. Jessica is
racial and gender discrimination, African American about to find out. She's a Miami investigative reporter
women have developed a rich intellectual tradition with a beautiful daughter, Kira, and a husband,
that is not widely known. In Black Feminist Thought, David, so loving, brilliant, and attentive that she calls
Patricia Hill Collins explores the words and ideas of him Mr. Perfect. Suddenly, however, her life takes a
Black feminist intellectuals as well as those of African terrifying turn. Her best friend is brutally and myste-
American women outside academe. She provides an riously murdered and Jessica discovers an ancient,
interpretive framework for the work of such promi- unimaginable danger that will shatter her life and
nent Black feminist thinkers as Angela Davis, bell family — forever. $24 cl, 0060187425, HarperCollins.
hooks, Alice Walker, and Audre Lorde. The result is a The Norton Anthology of African American
superbly crafted book that provides the first synthetic Literature edited by Henry Louis Gates Jr. and Nellie
overview of Black feminist thought. $18.99 pb, Y. McKay. A dazzling and rich overview of the African
0415905974, Routledge. American literary tradition, with the work of 120
Sojourner Truth: A Life, A Symbol by Nell Irvin authors from 1746 to the present writing in all genres
Painter. Now, in a masterful blend of scholarship and — poetry, short fiction, novels, drama, autobiography,
sympathetic understanding, eminent historian Nell journals, and letters. $49.95 cl, 0393040011, W.W.
Irvin Painter goes beyond the myths, words, and Norton & Co.
photographs to uncover the life of a complex woman Ain't I A Woman: Black Women and Feminism
who was born into slavery and died a legend. $14.95 by bell hooks. Ain't I A Woman examines the impact
pb, 0393317080, W.W. Norton & Co. of sexism on Black women during slavery, the historic
Daughters of the Dust: A Novel by Julie Dash. devaluation of Black womanhood, Black male sexism,
Julie Dash’s acclaimed film, Daughters of the Dust, was racism within the recent women’s movement, and
a cause for celebration, a lyrical portrait of a family of Black women’s involvement with feminism. hooks
complex, independent African American women. refutes the antifeminist claim that Black women are
Now she returns to the rich Gullah culture on the Sea not victims of sexist oppression nor in need of an
islands in a remarkable new novel that reacquaints us autonomous women’s movement. She pushes
29 Winter 1998
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
feminist dialogue to new limits by claiming that all Box 861, Decatur GA 30031; 404-815-8391. 40% for 3+
progressive struggles are significant only when they copies, free freight.
take place within a broadly defined feminist move- Harriet’s Daughter * by Marlene Nourbese
ment which takes as its starting point that race, class, Philip. This charming and humorous tale of adoles-
and sex are immutable facts of human existence. $12 cence explores the friendship of two young Black
pb, 089608129X, South End Press. Distributed by girls, and deals with issues of race, immigration, exile
LPC/InBook. and generational conflict. $8.95/C$8.95 pb,
The Afro-American Woman: Struggles and 0889611343, Women’s Press/Canada. Distributed by
Images by Sharon Harley and Rosalyn Terborg- LPC/InBook in the U.S., University of Toronto Press
Penn. Civil Rights activists, educators, writers, in Canada.
artists, and workers — these are the women of The No Burden to Carry: Narratives of Black
Afro- American Woman: Struggles and Images, an Working Women in Ontario 1920s to 1950s * by
excellent anthology of essays that provides a more Dionne Brand. A watershed in African-Canadian his-
accurate image of the Black woman and her place in torical scholarship, this book is an indispensible
history and in the cultural development of our resource for anyone interested in reclaiming the his-
society. Originally published in 1978, The Afro- tory of Black women in Canada. $17.95/C$17.95 pb,
-American Woman includes essays that highlight 0889611637, Women’s Press/Canada. Distributed by
historical experiences common to Black women. LPC /InBook in the U.S., University of Toronto Press
$10.95 pb, 1574780263. Black Classic Press, PO Box in Canada.
13414, Baltimore MD 21203; 410-358-0980. Distrib- Land To Light On * by Dionne Brand. One of
uted by PGW. Canada’s foremost poets and writers, Dionne Brand
Words of Fire: An Anthology of African Ameri- was recently awarded the prestigious Governor-
can Feminist Thought edited by Beverly General Award for Poetry for her latest collection.
Guy-Sheftall. In this pathbreaking collection of arti- Stunning, powerful, beautifully written. C$12.99 pb,
cles, Dr. Beverly Guy-Sheftall has taken us from the 077101645X, McClelland and Stewart.
early 1830s to contemporary times. Only since the The Collected Poems of Audre Lorde. This will
seventies have Black women used the term “femi- surely become a timeless classic, a gorgeous collection
nism.” And yet, it is that concept that she uses to bring of Audre Lorde’s poetry, including a handwritten
into the same frame the ideas and analyses of Maria poem written in 1952. $35/C$45 cl, 0393040909, W.W.
Stewart, Sojourner Truth and Frances W.E. Harper of Norton & Co.
the early nineteenth century, and the work of women Nervous Conditions by Tsitsi Dangarembga. Set
such as the late Audre Lorde, Barbara Smith, and bell in colonial Rhodesia in the 1960s, this brilliant first
hooks, who stand on the threshold of the twenty-first novel explores a young girl’s coming of age and the
century. $21.95 cl, 1565842561, The New Press. Distrib- devastating human loss involved in the colonization
uted by W.W. Norton. of one culture by another. $12/C$16.95 pb,
187806777X, Seal Press. Distributed by PGW, and
Toronto Women’s Bookstore available from various wholesalers.
Toronto, ONT Canada
Suggestions contributed by Anjula Gogia. Women’s History Month
Note: Canadian titles are noted with an asterisk. Most of these are anthologies, of one type or
another.
Black History Month Women of the First Nations: Power, Wisdom,
does your mama know? An Anthology of Black and Strength * edited by Christine Miller and Patricia
Lesbian Coming Out Stories edited by Lisa C. Chuchryk. This important work examines the lives of
Moore. A unique and timely anthology which in- Aboriginal women in Canada from a variety of
cludes several Canadian voices, does your mama theoretical and personal perspectives. $18.95/
know? is funny, passionate, angry and joyous. C$18.95 pb, 0887556345, University of Manitoba
$19.95/C$28.95 pb, 0965665909. Redbone Press, PO Press.
Winter 1998 30
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Making Face, Making Soul/Haciendo Caras: edited by Eugenia Delamotte, Natania Meeker, Jean
Creative and Critical Perspectives by Feminists of O'Barr. Truly global and historical in scope, this latest
Color edited by Gloria Anzaldúa. Another seminal anthology by Routledge stands out as a “great monu-
anthology featuring essays and creative pieces by ment to women’s resistance.” $29.95/C$39.95 pb,
women of colour, by one of the co-editors of the 0415915317, Routledge.
ground-breaking This Bridge Called My Back. And Still We Rise: Feminist Political Mobiliz-
$15.95/C$23.95 pb, 1879960109, Aunt Lute Books. ing in Contemporary Canada * edited by Linda Carty.
Distributed by Consortium. This collection grounds Canadian history in the strug-
The House that Jill Built: A Lesbian Nation in gles of diverse communities of women across the
Formation * by Becki L. Ross. A valuable contribution country. “This is the feminism which is relevant for
to the study of lesbian history in. Toronto. today and tomorrow.” $20.95/C$24.95 pb,
$21.95/C$20.95 pb, 0802074790, University of 0889611777, Women’s Press/Canada. Distributed by
Toronto Press. LPC/InBook in the U.S., University of Toronto Press
Women Writing in India, Volume I: 600 B.C. to in Canada.
the Early 20th Century edited by Susie Tharu, K. Such Hardworking People: Italian Immi-
Lalita. An incredibly rich and diverse look at the grants in Postwar Toronto * by Franca Iacovetta.
history of women’s writing in India, offering over The author examines the changes that many Italian
140 texts from 13 languages. $29.95/C$43.50 pb, immigrants faced during their transition from Italy
1558610278, The Feminist Press. Distributed by Con- to Canada, weaving together ethnic, labour and
sortium. women’s histories. Insightful, perceptive and sensi-
Women Imagine Change: A Global Anthology tive. $19.95/C$19.95 pb, 0773511458, McGill-Queens
of Women’s Resistance, from 600 BC to the Present Press.
Living Chicana Theory
edited by Carla Trujillo
The most vital and pioneering
voices of Chicana feminism come
together in this landmark anthol-
ogy, a collection that redefines the
ways that theory is written, talked
about, and practiced. Covering a
range of disciplines—from psy-
chology to art, religion, history and
literature—these essays address
topics as diverse as sexuality, border issues, motherhood,
spirituality, and class dynamics. What emerges is a new
kind of theory: one that encompasses the everyday con-
cerns of the women who create it. It is a language of sur-
vival, a bold and invigorating challenge to the conventions
and systems that have long sought to silence or subvert.
448 pp., paper, ISBN 0-943219-15-9, $24.95
Third Woman Press publishing the
[14y P.O. Box 11187, Berkeley, CA 94712 literature of
(510) 525-7935 fax (510) 525-8236 women of color
since 1979
31 Winter 1998
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Women & Children First Kornbluh. Profiles of eleven women from different
Chicago, IL unions and an overview of women’s contributions to
Suggestions contributed by Ann Christophersen and the struggle to gain and protect the rights of working
Jeanine Weekes. people fill in significant gaps in the history of the labor
movement in this country. $17.95 pb, 0813522692,
Black History Month Rutgers University Press.
Divided Sisters: Bridging the Gap Between A Century of Women: The History of Women in
Black Women & White Women by Midge Wilson and Britain and the United States by Sheila Rowbotham.
Kathy Russell. Co-authored by a Black woman and a An ambitious and readable account of the remarkable
white woman who are colleagues, friends, and teach- ways in which women have shaped not only their
ers, this book takes an unstinting look at the issues own history but the history of the century. $34.95 cl,
that complicate relationships between Black women 0670874205, Viking /Penguin USA.
and white women and suggests ways to work through Why History Matters: Life and Thought by
them. $14 pb, 0385473621, Anchor Books/BDD. Gerda Lerner. Gerda Lerner merges her considerable
“Why Are All the Black Kids Sitting Together in powers as an original thinker and scholarly, profes-
the Cafeteria?” And Other Conversations About Race sional historian with interpretations of her own
. by Beverly Daniel Tatum. “Conversations” is the opera- experience as an immigrant, a woman, and a Jew. The
tive word in this explanation of how racial identity result is a unique and powerful argument for study-
develops. An argument for talking about the political as ing and understanding history. $30 cl, 0195046447,
well as psychological significance of racial identity in Oxford University Press.
the United States. $24 cl, 046509127X, Basic Books.
Restoring Hope: Conversations on the Future of Children’s Books for Women’s History Month
Black America by Cornel West. Scholar-theologian- Listen To Us: The World’s Working Children by
activist Cornel West asks nine prominent Americans Jane Springer. Want kids to understand what's wrong
from music, literature and politics about hope for the with buying Nikes? Read this book with them. The
African American community. The conversations that stories of kids across the world whose exploited and
ensue are insightful, thought-provoking, and most of unprotected labor turns profits for unscrupulous local
all, deeply moving. $23 cl, 0807009423, Beacon Press. businesses as well as multinational corporations is both
tragic and motivating. The book opens with an account
Women’s History Month of a Pakistani carpet weaver who, at the age of ten,
Where Courage Is Like a Wild Horse: The World escaped the factory he was forced to work in and
of an Indian Orphanage by Sharon Skolnick (Okee- became a spokesperson against the kind of abuse he
Chee) and Manny Skolnick. Fueled by dreams of her and other children suffered. He was murdered at the
past, artist Sharon Skolnick writes of the difficult age of twelve, but became a martyr and inspiration to
emotional landscape of her Apache childhood in others like him. There is a lot of information on the
Oklahoma. $25 cl, 0803242638, University of Nebraska special situations girls face, too — particularly as sex
Press. Available from Ingram. and domestic workers. A very important book. Illus-
Women in Exile by Mahnaz Afkhami. The execu- trated with numerous photos. Ages 9 and up. $24.95 cl,
tive director of the Sisterhood is Global Institute, 0888992912, Groundwood Books. Distributed by PGW.
Mahnaz Afkhami had collected and retold the stories Seven Brave Women by Betsy Hearne, illus-
of thirteen women forced into exile by political events. trated by Bethanne Anderson. The book for Women’s
Each individual account is moving and compelling, History Month. The first account of what is essentially
and taken together provides a testament to the cour- a family history begins “My great-great-great grand-
age and hope of women reconstructing their lives mother did great things.” It moves through the
from the rubble of chaos and displacement. $12.95 pb, generations until arriving at the present: “I am not a
0813915430, University Press of Virginia. woman yet, but I can do great things.” Substantial and
Rocking the Boat: Union Women’s Voices, inspiring. Ages 5 to 10. $15 cl, 0688145027, Green-
1915-1975 edited by Brigid O'Farrell and Joyce L. willow / William Morrow & Co. O
Winter 1998 32
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
The
esbian
Section
Black lesbian writing gives voice S breast cancer epidemic. $12.95,
to añn experience which is too often 1879960516, Aunt Lute Books
excluded, or at least relegated to the (Consortium).
margins of both African American and Lorde’s essays are always
gay/lesbian communities. The follow- worth reading and rereading: A
ing titles help address that exclusion. Burst of Light: Essays $9.95,
Titles marked with an * should, in our 0-932379-39-7, Firebrand, and
Sister Outsider: Essays and
American, feminist and gay bookstore’s Speeches $12.95, 089594-141-4,
African American lesbian section. This V, Crossing Press.
list, combined with titles from the “Gay w With Zami, Lorde created
Lit for Feminist Stores” page 81 (which a new form, biomythography,
focuses, this issue, on books by /about gay combining elements of
men of color) also offers a perfect starting W Antho lA on gy history, biography and myth,
point for Gay Book Month (June) displays. of'Black Lesbist to write about growing up
Sara Look of Charis Books (Atlanta) Coming Qut Ste iY Black, female, Grenadian,
committed a major act of love by making and woman-loving in
time to compile this list thirteen days before Harlem in the forties and fifties.
Christmas. Additions and annotations $12.95, 0895941228, Crossing Press.
brought to you by “A Motley Collection of Dykes.” Our Dead Behind Us: Poems outlines Lorde’s
identities as a lesbian, mother, Black woman, and
Anything by Audre Lorde. cancer survivor, and notes the tension created by the
Another mother of us all, Audre Lorde often conflicting drives of these identities. $9,
(1934-1992) inspired a generation of women with her 0393312380, Norton.
clear-eyed analysis and absolute commitment to Audre Lorde published ten volumes of poetry
addressing the unspeakable: from breast cancer to and five works of prose, was a recipient of many
lesbianism to everyday racism. distinguished honors and awards, and was named
The forthrightness and ferocity with which New York State Poet in 1991. The Collected Poems of
Audre Lorde greeted every social injustice is in full Audre Lorde provides proof of the lasting power of
force in *The Cancer Journals, her courageous explo- one of this country’s most important and influential
ration of breast cancer and mastectomy. Using the voices. $35, 0393040909, Norton.
journal, memoir, and essay forms, Lorde gave voice to
her “feelings and thoughts about the travesty of pros- By turns funny, passionate, angry, and joyous,
thesis, the pain of amputation, the function of cancer *does your mama know? An Anthology of Black
in a profit economy, confrontations with mortality, the Coming Out Stories edited by Lisa Moore reflects the
strength of women loving, and the power and complexity of emotions that accompany a Black
rewards of self-conscious living.” First published in lesbian’s coming out. Forty-nine short stories, poems,
1980, when almost no one was acknowledging the interviews and essays make up a powerful collection.
Volume 20 Number 5/6 33 Winter 1998
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
An elegant and beautifully designed book. Essential on coping with attacks from the religious right to
for any bookstore’s family section. $19.95, 0965665909, Michelle Parkerson’s science fiction and excerpts from
Redbone Press (PO Box 861, Decatur GA 30031; 404- Audre Lorde’s Zami. $14, 0385473559, Doubleday.
815-8391).
*This Bridge Called My Back: Writings by Radi-
*A Piece of My Heart: A Lesbian of Colour cal Women of Color edited by Cherríe Moraga and
Anthology edited by Makeda Silvera. The fifty-plus Gloria Anzaldúa. Originally published in 1981 by
contributors, Canadian and American lesbians of Persephone Press, This Bridge remains one of the
color from many differing cultural, racial, national, most powerful statements on the experience of being
and class backgrounds, present a range of lesbian “other” in America. Contributions by African Ameri-
experiences from coming out to coming into our own can, Asian American, Latina and Native American
power. $16.95, 0920813658, Sister Vision Press (LPC). lesbians and feminists document this experience and
give rise to the hope of a different way of forging
In Plural Desires: Writing Bisexual Women’s community. $11.95, 091317503X, Kitchen Table:
Realities, edited by the Bisexual Anthology Collec- Women of Color Press (LPC).
tive, 35 contributors use fiction, poetry, comics, the
visual arts, and inventive non-fiction to address bisex- *The Color Purple by Alice Walker. Celie
ual women’s realities in all their diversity. Emerging wouldn't have made it without Shug. $6.99,
from an anti-racist, feminist framework that links 0671727796, Pocket.
struggles against homophobia and heterosexism with
other liberation movements, it explores the plurality *Serpent’s Gift: A Novel. Helen Elaine Lee’s
and fluidity of desire and identity proving again that richly detailed novel brings to life some of the most
there are indeed more than two sides.... $19.95 pb, memorable characters in recent fiction: the matriarchs,
0-920813-19-4, Sister Vision Press (LPC). Ruby Staples and Eula Smalls; LaRue Smalls, a rebel,
storyteller, and chronicler of his people; Oudia Staples,
Featuring America’s long-celebrated authors a dynamic beauty who chooses to live with another
James Baldwin, Audre Lorde, Alice Walker, Richard woman; and Vesta Smalls, intimidated by
Wright — as well as the works of a new srd-Winning life but determined to keep her family
generation of critically-heralded writers, F.M. together. Lee traces their entwined lives
including Sapphire, Jacqueline Woodson | over almost a century and creates a world
and Charles Harvey, *Go the Way Your that is starkly real and magically haunt-
Blood Beats: An Anthology of Lesbian ing. $12, 0684801604, Simon & Schuster.
and Gay Literary Fiction by African
American Writers examines Black lesbian Soul Kiss, an eloquent first novel
and gay identity from inside the closet and from well-known African American
out. Through thirty-two stories, nearly half playwright Shay Youngblood, is an
in print for the first time, writers from the uncommon coming-of-age, set in rural
Harlem Renaissance to the present examine Georgia in 1968. After a difficult begin-
such issues as homophobia, bisexuality, ning, seven-year-old Mariah Kim
AIDS, cross-dressing, and accepting one’s Santos and the aunts with whom she’s
self. Edited by Ruff Shawn Stewart. $16.95, — been left form a harmonious three-
080504437X, Holt. some. But Mariah still dreams of her mother’s
return, eventually learns of the existence of her father,
*Afrekete: An Anthology of Contemporary and grows to question both familial and sexual iden-
Black Lesbian Writing edited by Catherine McKinley tities. $21, 1573220639, Putnam.
and L. Joyce Delaney. Provocative, funny, and elegant, And not to be missed is Youngblood’s short fiction,
this anthology showcases the depth and variety of *The Big Mama Stories. “If you don’t remember noth-
Black lesbian writing — from Linda Villarosa’s essay ing else I tell you, baby, you remember this: If you got
Winter 1998 34 Volume 20 Number 5/6
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
to dance or dream or anything at all, take it a step at a between two Caribbean women — one Canadian, the
time and don’t let nothing and nobody get in your way other a sugar cane cutter. Brand never coddles readers
when you doing right. I ain't saying it’s gonna be easy, or offers fiction more gentle than real life. $24,
but we all got a dance to do. You remember this, 0802116221, Grove/ Atlantic (PGW).
you hear?” With advice like this, ħow can a girl Sans Souci: And Other Stories.
go wrong? $8.95, 0932379575, Firebrand (LPC). Brand’s characters, in this collection
of stories set in the Caribbean and
Her: A Novel by Cherry Muhaji. A Canada, deal with issues pervasivein
rowdy irreverent novel set in Detroit in the both cultures, including alienation,
late 50s and 60s about the Black migration sexism, racism and homophobia.
north to work in the automobile industry Characters struggle with injustice,
assembly lines. Cherry Muhanji explores though survival skills come at a high
the spectrum of relationships between price. $8.95, 0932379702, Firebrand
women — as friends, as lovers, and as (LPC).
mothers and daughters — and how Brand’s other work includes No
women hold each other up and, some- Language Is Neutral, No Burden to
times, let each other down. The splendid Carry: Narratives of Black Working
cover photograph by Haruko of an ele- Women in Ontario 1920s—-1950s; Sight
gantly dressed young butch is worth the price Specific: Lesbians & Representation;
of the book alone. $9.95, 0-933216-63-7, Aunt Lute We're Rooted Here and They Can’t Pull Us
Books (Consortium). Up: Essays in African Canadian Women’s History;
and Bread Out of Stone: Recollections, Sex, Recog-
*The Gilda Stories: A Novel by Jewelle Gomez. nitions, Race, Dreaming, Politics.
A marvelous and long-awaited collection of intercon-
nected stories about literature’s first Black lesbian I Tell on Stephen Foster by The Shirley is a novel
vampire heroine, her lives from slavery-times to the about Black women and slavery with strong lesbian
present, and her passion for integrity and justice in an themes. $15.95, 096372715X, I.B. Bold Publications,
enormously difficult and unjust world. Gilda is the PO Box 35082, Louisville KY 40232.
quintessential outsider seeking community. Selections
from the book have been staged under the title “Bones Anything by Jacqueline Woodson is wonderful.
and Ash” by Urban Bush Women, with music by Toshi *Autobiography of a Family Photo, Woodson’s first
Reagon. $11.95, 093237994X, Firebrand (LPC). adult novel, explores childhood and growing up
Gomez’ Oral Tradition: Selected Poems, Old lesbian in a tight, confused, coming together and some-
and New is sexy and dykey: The long narrative piece times falling apart family — along with racism, incest,
“Gilda Sings” brackets each of the four sections, giv- spousal abuse, sexism, love, The (Vietnam) War, lead
ing new insight and depth to everyone’s favorite paint, the generation gap, sex, poverty — and other
lesbian vampire. $9.95, 156341063X, Firebrand. everyday issues. $9.95, 0452270987, Penguin.
And don’t forget Gomez’ essays, Forty-Three All of Woodson’s YA novels address issues that
Septembers: Essays. Black, lesbian, Native American, challenge teens, often with characters that mess with
raised poor, ex-Catholic, and writer — as Gomez the stereotypes, i.e., middle-class Marie and poor-
honors the mythic heroism of ordinary people. $10.95, white Lena cross both color and class lines to build
1563410370, Firebrand (LPC). a friendship and find a way to help Lena escape her
father’s sexual abuse (I Hadn’t Meant to Tell You
In Another Place, Not Here by Dionne Brand. This, $3.99, 0440219604, Laurel Leaf). Lesbian char-
Alternating between Toronto and a Granada-like acters are incidental, but not invisible in *The Dear
country, the intensely political In Another Place, Not One ($3.99, 0440214203, Laurel Leaf). Some of
Here offers an account of organizing sugar cane work- Woodson’s other YA titles deal more explicitly with
ers, a failed revolution, immigration, and the love lesbian and gay themes: Growing up is hard enough
Volume 20 Number 5/6 35 Winter 1998
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
for 14-year-old Melanin Sun but then suddenly his inspires Precious to reflect on and synthesize her
mother turns into a lesbian right before his eyes. Not experiences through learning to write. $11,
just a lesbian, but a lesbian dating a white woman. 0679766758, Random House.
How’s a kid supposed to deal? *The Notebooks of With American Dreams, Sapphire delivers the
Melanin Sun ($3.99, 0590458817, Scholastic) won verdict on the urban condition, sexual assault, domes-
the 1996 Coretta Scott King Honor Book, a Lambda tic violence, street crime — and spiritual renewal —
Literary Award, and an ALA Best Book for Young „ in a sensual, propulsive, and prophetic book
Adults. of poetry and prose. $12, 0679767991,
Still in hardcover, *The House You Random House.
Pass Along the Way: Thirteen-year-old
Staggerlee (Evangeline, until she gave Julie Dash’s celebrated film, Daughters
herself a fiercer name) has always been of the Dust, became an instant classic with
different — set apart by the tragic deaths its lyrical evocation of a family of com-
of her grandparents in an anti-civil rights plex, independent African American
bombing, by her parents’ interracial mar- women. Now, in the novel Daughters of
riage, and by her family’s retreat from the the Dust, Dash puts her vision to the
. world — and now by her confused longing N, page, penning a rich and magical new
for her friend Hazel. Woodson’s novels are work that reacquaints readers with the
never simplistic and even learning to say marvelous film characters, including,
the word “gay” is hardly the end of the story. of course, the enigmatic woman who
$14.95, 0385321899, Doubleday. so clearly loves other women. $23.95,
0525941096, Penguin.
Penny Mickelbury’s mysteries address
hard issues of race and class in the pursuit of serial Black Back-Ups. Kate Rushin’s first collection of
killers of prostitutes (*Night Songs, $10.95, poetry captures the faces, voices, feelings, words, and
1562800973, Naiad) and closeted lesbians and gay stories of her African American family, people in the
men (*Keeping Secrets, $9.95, 1562800523, Naiad). neighborhood and town where she grew up — people
These mysteries are well written, dynamic, and hard raised by a generation born in bondage in the t9"
hitting — and reflective of Mickelbury’s career as a century. Rushin uses the image of African Americans
newspaper, radio, and television reporter. Her forth- who sing back-up vocals for white entertainers as a
coming mystery, One Must Wait, will introduce a new metaphor for all those pushed into the shadows.
detective, Carole Ann Gibson, a brilliant, hard-edged $9.95, 1563410257, Firebrand (LPC).
Black defense lawyer who habitually defends white-
collar criminals, and her husband, an equally brilliant Lovers’ Choice. In the second collection of short
corporate attorney who devotes his skills to helping stories by Philadelphia writer Becky Birtha, an older
his high-powered firm’s greedy clients subvert envi- lesbian mourns the loss of her lover; a 14-year-old
ronmental laws. Mickelbury’s depiction of ecological tomboy discovers that there are grown women like
destruction and the relationship between environ- her; a poor mother takes her family on an all-night
mental politics and racism, we've been told, informs bus ride to keep from freezing... These stories play
her novel with a depth and anger that parallels Carole upon the unexpected and, together, form a richly
Ann's search for her husband’s murderer. Lesbian evocative collection. $10.95, 1878067419, Seal Press
content? Don’t know. Gotta wait for the book. $22, (PGW).
0684837412, Simon & Schuster. And don’t miss Birtha’s The Forbidden Poems: a
journey of loss and mending. Beginning with poems
Push, Sapphire’s brilliant novel about growing about confronting racism and her empowerment as an
up poor, angry, illiterate, raped, incested, and preg- African American and as a lesbian-feminist, Birtha
nant in Harlem, includes a strong secondary then explores the realm of personal grief at the loss of
character who is lesbian, the literacy teacher who a longtime lover. $10.95, 1-878067-01-X, Seal Press.
Winter 1998 36 Volume 20 Number 5/6
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Thereafter Johnnie by Carolivia Herron. Hailed American lesbians. $11.95, 1879427281, Third Side
from its publication as a modern classic of African Press (Consortium).
American literature, this visionary novel is the story
of a middle-class Washington family that is at once 3 the Hard Way by Adrienne. Three short, erotic
torn apart and hideously fused by incest. “A swirling stories about three Black (lesbian) executives in the
and terrifying epic...stunning and incandescent... NYC music industry. $12.95, no ISBN, direct order only,
luminous and visionary.” —Los Angeles Times GATe Way Press, PO Box 56952, Atlanta GA 30344.
Book Review. $10, 0679741887, Random
House. Kissing God Goodbye: Poems,
1991-1997. June Jordan's many selves,
Free Enterprise by Michelle Cliff. In poet, essayist, feminist, and activist,
1858, two Black women meet and later join come together in this collection of poetry
John Brown’s doomed raid on Harper’s that is alternately lyrical, magical, shock-
Ferry, barely escaping with their lives. ingly spare, pungently political, yet
Michelle Cliff places an actual historical universally resonate. Beautiful love poems
figure (Mary Ellen Pleasant) at the center are interspersed with poems about Bosnia,
of this powerful novel, which brings to Africa, urban America, Clarence Thomas,
life the passionate struggle for liberation affirmative action, her mother’s suicide, and
that began not long after the first breast cancer. $12, 0385490321, Doubleday.
slavers landed in Virginia. $9.95, In Haruko/Love Poems, June Jordan
0452271223, Penguin. expands and redefines the traditional idea of
Abeng, Cliff’s first novel, explores the contra- the love poem. Taking from the haiku its purity
dictions of class and color, blood and history in a and economy and patterned after Neruda’s
colonized country as experienced by the 12-year-old, Twenty Love Poems, the Haruko poems are at once
light-skinned daughter of a Jamaican middle-class urgent, passionate, and complex. Following the Haruko
family. $11.95, 0452274834, Penguin. poems is a selection of Jordan's love poems that bear
witness to the depth and breadth of her poetic bril-
Her Head a Village and Other Stories by Jamai- liance. $13.99, 1852423234, Serpent's Tail (Consortium).
can and Canadian writer Makeda Silvera challenges —And don’t forget Jordan’s other collections of
stereotypes and addresses the issue of being poetry, Things that I Do in the Dark and
an “outsider” from diverse perspectives. [= I Living Room, and her essay collections,
Silvera makes effective use of Jamaican __ | Civil Wars and Technical Difficulties.
English in these compelling stories. $12.95,
0-88974-056-9, SisterVision (LPC). : Movement in Black by Pat Parker.
| Audre Lorde wrote in her introduction
Pearls of Passion: A Treasury of | that Pat Parker’s final collection, “would
Lesbian Erotica edited by C. Allyson Lee | not need any introduction except for the
and Makeda Silvera. Risqué, exciting, dar- f racism and heterosexism of a poetry estab-
ing and dangerous, this anthology collects | lishment.... [T]he plain accuracy of her
work from 25 lesbian writers celebrating |- visions encourages an honesty that may be
the place of passion, desire and, yes, lust. : as uncomfortable as it is compelling. Her
$12.95, 0920813992, Sister Vision (LPC). | words are womanly and uncompromis-
ing.” Parker was a woman with a long
Speaking in Whispers: Lesbian African- political memory who was never willing to
American Erotica by Kathleen E. Morris. Eighteen let anyone compartmentalize her soul for
unflinchingly erotic stories exalt lesbian sexuality and the sake of their own political comfort. Mother, femi-
sensuality in all its varied forms and celebrates the nist medical administrator, lover of women, softball
diversity in shape, style and passion, of African devotee, and general progressive troublemaker, she
Volume 20 Number 5/6 37 Winter 1998
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
died of breast cancer in 1989. $8.95, 0932379745, who comes to Nashville and stays for a sermon at
Firebrand (LPC). Myrtle’s church ($8.95, 0930044983, Naiad).
Shockley’s other books include The Black and
Living As a Lesbian: Poetry by Cheryl Clarke. White of It, Afro-American Women Writers,
Clarke writes variations on the themes of Blackness, 1746-1933; An Anthology and Critical Guide; and
anger, violence, 10ss, loneliness, lesbianism, and sex. Living Black American Authors: A Biographical
The images are strong, the impact stunning. ($7.95, Directory.
0932379745, Firebrand.) See also her later work
Experimental Love ($8.95, 1-56341-035-4, Firebrand) All of SDiane Bogus’ poetry: Dyke Hands and
and Humid Pitch: Narrative Poetry ($8.95, 0-932379- Sutras of Erotic Love ($12, 0934172218, WIM), Woman
66-4, Firebrand /LPC). in the Moon ($9, 0-934172-01-3), Are You a Poet ($10,
0-934172-20-X), and For the Love of Men, all publish-
Rice by Nikky Finney. “Like the nourishing grain ed by Woman in the Moon, 1409 The
whose name graces this collection, Rice
feeds readers who are hungry for the deep F”
love and lyricism that imbues Black life. \ No collection would want to be with-
‚Nikky Finney is a writer who carries the out *The Black Women’s Health Book:
traditions of her ancestors with the exqui- Speaking for Ourselves edited by Evelyn
site care they deserve.” —Evelyn C. White. C. White ($16.95, 1-878067-40-0, Seal
$15.95, 0920813216, Sister Vision (LPC). \ Press) and *Body & Soul: The Black
| Women’s Guide to Physical Health and
Voodoo Chile and Soquee Street |o apat Emotional Well-Being edited by Linda
Poems by poet and performance artist doris Villarosa. $20, 0060950854, HarperCollins.
davenport. $10, no ISBN, SSP/DD, PO Box
490, Sautee GA 30571. The Black Woman’s Gumbo Ya-Ya: Quotations
by Black Women, edited by Terri L. Jewell. Thoughts,
Home for her high school reunion, Virginia observations, songs, poetry and dreams from 350
Kelly’s parents still wish she’d just meet the right man. Black women the world over. A wonderful gift and a
But nothing is that simple, not sexual identity nor love useful resource. $10.95, 0895945797, Crossing Press.
nor loss, or even memory, in Nikki Baker’s Long
Goodbyes ($9.95, 1562800426, Naiad). As in her pre- *Asha’s Mums by Rosamund Elwin and Michele
vious mysteries, The Lavender House Murder and In Paulse, illustrated by Dawn Lee. After nearly a decade
the Game, Baker explores the social and racial fabric of peaceful circulation, this children’s story had just
of lesbian life in the nineties — including the ways been banned in a British Columbia school district, prov-
families are committed to misreading cues about their ing, once again, how much school authorities want to
lesbian daughters’ lives. mess with Asha’s family. Asha, an African Canadian
child with two moms, gets called on the carpet by her
Loving Her by Ann Allen Shockley. Recently teacher who won't let her go on the class trip because
republished by The Northeastern Library of Black her permission slip isn't signed “correctly.” Asha’s quite
Literature, Loving Her, published in 1974, was not only happy in her two-mum family, but apparently the
the first African American novel written with an explic- teacher has never heard of two women raising kids
itly lesbian theme, it was the first to feature a Black together. What sets this book apart from other books for
lesbian as its protagonist, portraying an interracial kids with gay parents is that the kids are obviously
relationship between a musician and a writer. $12.95, experienced in dealing with stupid (and racist) authori-
1-55553-329-9, Northeastern University Press. ties and so turn to each other to work their way through
Shockley’s second novel, Say Jesus and Come to this one. At the end, the teacher is still a jerk but the kids,
Me, is the story of closeted and charismatic evangelist Asha and her schoolmates, are fine. $5.95, 0-88961-143-
Myrtle Black and her attraction to a successful singer 2, Women’s Press/Canada (LPC). O
Winter 1998 38 Volume 20 Number 5/6
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
We had originally envisioned organizing this roundup dismantling of old boundaries and stereotypes. B&W
of titles into three tidy sections: Black History Month, photos throughout. $24.95 cl, 0-86543-434-4, Africa
Women’s History Month, and books pertinent to both. How- World Press, Inc.
ever it quickly became apparent such clear-cut categories did Gendered Visions: The Art of Contemporary
not exist, that every bookseller would define the categories a Africana Women Artists edited by Salah M. Hassan
little — or a lot — differently but, when reviewing the list, was produced in conjunction with an art exhibit held
every bookseller would immediately recognize the books that at the Herbert F. Johnson Museum, Cornell University.
are suitable for her/his own store. Our hope, in presenting The book (as did the exhibit) features wọrk by six
this list, is that each bookseller will find a few titles that contemporary women artists of African descent who
she/he wouldn't previously have considered for her/his store. live and work in the West: Elisabeth T. Atnafu from
Ethiopia, Xenobia Bailey from the U.S., Renee Cox
Art Hfr oo um ri a J Nam iatai ac a f, r oA mng e Ale l g eE r. i a ,E s s aa nm d b a E t if yr eo m D i mCa mm ae r Po oo un l, sen
Eye to Eye — Women edited by Vanessa Baird from Ethiopia. It includes essays focusing on the art-
offers a unique introduction to the rich variety of ists, providing insightful readings of the artists’ works
women’s writing in the countries of the South. It is a in relation to their life stories, aesthetics, and socio-
pleasure to read — and a feast for the eyes: full-color cultural background. B&W photos throughout. $24.95
photos complement each writer’s selection. Con- pb, 0-86543-620-7, Africa World Press, Inc.
tributors include Nawal El Saadawi, Isabel Allende,
Bessie Head and Gita Mehta. Introduction by Anita
Desai. $29.99 pb, 1-85242-581-4, Serpent’s Tail. Biography, Autobiography
Distributed by Consortium. & Memoir
In bold, simple line drawings and accompanying
text in journal form, Women Against Hunger: A Singing Away the Hunger: The Autobiography
Sketchbook Journey records Betty LaDuke’s visits to of an African Woman — Mpho ‘M’atsepo Nthunya,
Freedom from Hunger project sites in Africa. Freedom edited by K. Limakatso Kendall, brings to print a
from Hunger is a nonprofit foundation dedicated to voice rarely heard, a voice from within the struggle of
eradicating chronic hunger and malnutrition by en- “ordinary” African women to negotiate a world that
couraging and supporting women in their efforts to
organize and become self-sufficient. $21.95 pb, For a more complete selection of books, see also:
0-86543-606-1, Africa World Press, Inc. Booksellers Recommend ............. 19
Africa: Women’s Art, Women’s Lives is a con- The African American Lesbian Section . . . . . .. 33
tinuation of artist/scholar Betty LaDuke’s efforts to Kids Li... .... E 87
document the art of women of color around the world. ee Men's Lit for Feminist Stores... ...... s
L Ga fD u tPk he e Ci rp r Roo wvi nSd e s a g a e On cv yiWe w a n doAf t h th e ie r e a snr et nisest es y’ o fc o n ts h8c ei mo u ss en lSves escs iU asSe E Mn A Vc S Ij SeA IS SK g FG it i E McS uEtiA ni o9 V1 On S.a.ia. G y9 i5n g
V contoriblutiung mto soceial an d 2 pol0itic al chNange u andm to tbheer 5/6 39 Winter 1998
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
incorporates both ancient pastoral ways and the con- reported to relatives that I was a girl. I took over my
gestion, brutality, and racist violence of city life in story from when I was about three-and-a-half years.”
South Africa. $12.95 pb, 0-253-21162-X, $29.95 cl, $22.95 cl, 0-86543-574-X, Africa World Press, Inc.
-33352-0, Indiana University Press. On My Own at 107: Reflections of Life With-
For Women and the Nation: Funmilayo out Bessie by Sarah L. Delany with Amy Hill Hearth
Ransome-Kuti of Nigeria by Cheryl Johnson-Odim is a memoir of the elder Delany sister’s first year
and Nina Emma Mba is a rare full-length biography without her sister and lifelong companion. $18 cl,
of an African woman activist. Ransome-Kuti, a Nige- 0-06-251485-7, HarperCollins.
rian activist born in 1900, fought for suffrage and In Wounds of Passion: A Writing Life, feminist
equal rights for her countrywomen long before the intellectual bell hooks recounts her life as she moves
second wave of the women’s movement in the United from adolescence into womanhood. “Wounds of
States. She also championed the cause of the poor as Passion wraps us in a bountiful blanket of finely
she joined the anticolonial movement struggling for textured, artfully woven memories that surround our
Nigeria's independence. $19.95 pb, 0-252-06613-8, hearts, warm our souls, and comfort our minds.”
University of Illinois Press. —Julia A. Boyd, In The Company of My Sisters. $20 cl,
Tanure Ojaide, author of Great Boys: An African 0-8050-4146-X.
. Childhood, writes “I consider myself fortunate to Ella Baker: Freedom Bound by Joanne Grant is
have experienced traditional African culture firsthand the inspiring story of a remarkable woman who rose
before its transformation by modernity. Great Boys is from poverty and oppression to become a hero of the
about my upbringing in the Niger Delta area of Nige- civil rights movement. She was one of several foun-
ria. My grandmother who raised me told me the ders of the Student Nonviolent Coordinating
beginning of my life, including my father’s visit to Committee and of the Southern Christian Leadership
seek my mother’s hand and why my father at my birth Conference. $24.95 cl, 0471020206, Wiley.
$19.95
ISBN 0-9659754-0-1
112 pages, 91/2 x 91/2
Four-color/Hundreds of photos/illustrations
WWW.GIRLPRESS.COM YOUNG ADULT
Distributed by LPC Group MARCH 1998
Winter 1998 40
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Selma, Lord, Selma: Girlhood Memories of the break with the Nation due to its attitude toward
Civil Rights Days by Sheyann Webb and Tachel West women. $12 pb, 0-06-251135-1, HarperSanFrancisco.
Nelseon, as told to Frank Sikora, is their first-hand From Mine Eyes is Attallah Shabazz’ memoir of
account of the 1965 voter rights demonstrations in her life as a the eldest child of Civil Rights leader,
Alabama. $17.95 cl, 0817300317, University of Malcom X. Shabazz evokes her fascinating family life
Alabama Press. in vivid detail, personalizing both the triumphs and
Faye Wattleton, the former president the tragic events of the era. $24 cl, 0-688-
of Planned Parenthood tells her story in 15188-4, March/April, Morrow.
Life on the Line. $14.95 pb, 0345416570, In Never Question the Miracle: A
March, One World /Ballantine. | Surgeon’s Story Rose-Marie Toussaint,
Blending memoir, essay, and political M.D., tells the story of how she, a Black
analysis, Jill Nelson’s (Volunteer Slavery) [| female immigrant, became a prominent
Straight, No Chaser: How I Became a surgeon in the United States. Written with
Grown-up Black Woman is a provocative Anthony E. Santaniello. $24.95 cl, 0-345-
look at Black women’s struggle for voice f 40723-7, Ballantine.
and visibility. Nelson also relates her own In My Rose: An African American
experiences in this hard-hitting book, Mother's Story of AIDS Geneva Bell tells a
and whether growing up in the house of moving story of her gay son, and how he
her father, or being assaulted by a lover, lived with and died from AIDS-related
or struggling to control rage in the face of injus- illness. This personal account of Bell’s dev-
tice, she draws a vivid picture of not only the obstacles astation, her shame, and anger at God is also
confronting Black women, but the possibility of trans- a story of courage and the faith that enabled her to
formation. $23.95 cl, 0-399-14262-2, Putnam. come to terms with this tragedy, even without the full
Trespassing: My Sojourn in the Halls of Privilege support of her church. $12.95 pb, 0-8298-1160-5. Pil-
by Gwendolyn M. Parker (These Same Long Bones). By grim Press, 700 Prospect Avenue East, Cleveland OH
objective accounts, Gwendolyn M. Parker was a 44115. Available from Ingram.
success: college at Radcliffe and law school at NYU; she Running the gamut from welfare reform and the
was first employed by a prestigious New York law firm presidency to the Pope and oral sex, Whoopi Gold-
and later by American Express. At 26 she quit, feeling berg has a comment ont all. Whoopi Goldberg: Book
that the cost of being the token African American is filled with the hard-earned wisdom, savvy sense of
woman was not worth the price. Parker began her humor, and wide-ranging, keen observations that
working life anew: she lobbied for welfare mothers, have made Whoopi Goldberg a household name. $22
helped small businesses incorporate, designed market- cl, 0-688-15252-X, Rob Weisbach /Morrow.
ing plans for domestic violence shelters, and advised Don't Block the Blessings: Revelations of a
older divorced women on their wills and taxes. “The Lifetime by Patti LaBelle (with Laura B. Randolph)
real value of Gwendolyn Parker’s story is to document chronicles the phenomenal success of this artist who
the loss we all experience when we try to navigate life's is known not only for her music, but also for her
challenges solely as autonomous, free-floating indi- tireless charity work and devotion to her fans. $24.95
viduals who forget the power that comes from feeling c], 1-57322-039-6, Riverhead Books/Putnam.
connected to a larger cause or a loving community.” Deloreese Patricia Early was 13 when she landed
—Lani Guinier. $23 c], 0-395-82297-1, Houghton Mifflin. her first professional tour, singing backup for Mahalia
Little X: Growing Up in the Nation of Islam is Jackson, and by the time she was 22 she was in New
Sonsyrea Tate's personal account of her upbringing as a York with a recording contract. She is now the star of
Black Muslim in America. Tate recreates the rhythms the hit television series “Touched by an Angel.”
and sensations of daily life among the hundreds of other Angels Along the Way: My Life with Help From
inner-city “Little Xs,” and chronicles her family’s multi- Above is Della Reese's story of her life, one with its
generational experience within the Nation’s strict share of personal tragedy, but also one filled with joy
culture and her growing disillusionment and eventual and inspiration. $23.95 cl, 0-399-14342-4, Putnam.
Volume 20 Number 5/6 41 Winter 1998
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Children’s & Young Adult Books by Brett Elizabeth Blake examines public and private
writings of low-income, urban, pre-adolescent girls
For Finding Our Way: The Teen Girls’ Survival illuminating ways that girls’ voices are often silenced
Guide Allsion Abner and Linda Villarosa interviewed in schools and society. $14.95 pb, 0-7914-3480-X; $44.50
girls from diverse backgrounds and wove their stories cl, -3479-6, State University of New York Press.
into a guide for girls, parents, and teachers. Issues Reaching Up for Manhood: Transforming the Lives
discussed range from self-esteem to dating and the of Boys in America by Geoffrey Canada. “In a voice
dramatic physical changes that occur in adolescence. rich with experience, [Canada] speaks about fathers
$13 pb, 0-06-095114-1, HarperPerennial. and sons and shows specifically what it means for men
Tonya Bolden presents biographies of ten to love boys, what it is like to be a boy wanting a
women who refused to let racism or sexism stand in father’s love, and why we as a society urgently need to
the way of their dreams in And Not Afraid to Dare: change our culture of manhood if we want men to be
The Stories of Ten African American Women. For good fathers and boys to reach manhood. Focusing on
ages 9—14, $16.95, 0590480804, February, Scholastic. the everyday, talking about sex, drugs, and faith, as
In Brave Black Women: From Slavery to the well as self-worth and work, Canada has written a
Space Shuttle Ruthe Winegarten and Sharon Kahn „ quietly revolutionary book.” —Carol
trace the history of Black women for students in Gilligan, In a Different Voice. Canada
grades 4 to 8. In addition to famous women, the is the East Coast coordinator for the
book also profiles teachers, businesswomen, Children’s Defense Fund’s Black
civil rights leaders, community activists, doctors, Community Crusade for Children.
nurses, athletes, musicians, artists, and political $22 cl, 0-8070-2316-7, Beacon Press.
leaders. $24.95 cl, 0-292-79106-2; $12.95 pb, The State of America’s Chil-
-79107-0, University of Texas Press. dren: A Report of the Children’s
In Our Own Image: An African American Defense Fund, 1998, introduction
History, edited by the People’s Publishing Group A by Marian Wright Edelman
and the Rochester City School District, provides a (founder and president of the
definitive account of African Americans who, Children’s Defense Fund), is a
gth rer ao tu g ih m pt ah ce ti r o na c h Aie mv ee rm ice an nt s h a isn td o r ytr : i b Su ol ja ot ui ro nn es, r h Ta rd uth, PEL FLL MTAL KI m wu ost r- kha ev re s ,h a n ad cb to io vk i s f to r p c ah ri eld nts,
Harriet Tubman, Booker T. Washington, Marcus teachers, speechmakers, media pro-
Garvey, Ida B. Wells, Zora Neale Hurston, Langston fessionals — anyone looking for hard data and
Hughes and many others. Grades 46. $21.95 pb, 1-56256- moving stories to help them fight for children’s well-
029-8, Peoples Publishing. Distributed by Red Sea. being in America. $16 pb, 0-8070-4147-5, Beacon.
African American History: A Journey of Libera- Nothing’s Impossible: Leadership Lessons
tion by Molefi Kete Asante will help older readers from Inside and Outside the Classroom by Lorraine
(grades 7-12) gain a comprehensive understanding of Monroe. Using stories from her own life growing up
the scope of African American history, with its rich in Harlem as well as her experiences as a teacher and
legacy, dark moments, and the ongoing struggle for a principal, Lorraine Monroe describes how caring
liberation and enrichment. $34.95 pb, 1-56256-903-1, instructors, an atmosphere of disciplined creativity,
Peoples Publishing. and a refusal to accept mediocrity can transform the
lives of inner-city children. $23 cl, 0-8129-2904-7,
Child Bearing & Children’s Issues Times Books/Random House.
In Madeleine Wright's Sisters Helping Sisters,
the author suggests ways to organize and manage Cooking & Commentary
mentoring programs for African American girls. Ntozake Shange offers an eclectic tribute to Black
$14.95 pb, 0913543535, Africa World Press, Inc. cuisine in If I Can Cook/You Know God Can, reflecting
She Say, He Say: Urban Girls Write Their Lives the tenacious spirit and powerful history of a people.
Winter 1998 42 Volume 20 Number 5/6
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Here, Shange instructs the reader in the nuances of a
cuisine born on the slave ships of the Middle Passage,
spiced by the jazz of Duke Ellington, and shared by all ALMOSI
members of the African diaspora. Foreword by INLO
Vertamae Grosvenor. $20 cl, 0-8070-7240-0, Beacon.
Dorinda Hafner collects recipes and stories from
all over America in United Tastes of America: Reci-
pes and the Cultural Origins of Your Favorite A beautifully
Dishes. Equal parts cookbook and history lesson, written and
Hafner presents a unique patchwork of American
cuisine. $25 cl, 0-345-41981-2, Ballantine. deeply moving
' In The African-American Kitchen: Cooking aaae
From Our Heritage Angela Shelf Medearis collects
250 recipes, including native African dishes, Carib- 3AN eeji
bean-influenced foods, Southern and soul food
immigrant parents
staples, and contemporary favorites. The author
enlivens the text with African and Southern adages,
pqu ero st oa nti ao ln s a n f dr o fm am 1 il9 yt h r-c ee mn it nu ir sy ce n c co eo sk . s ’ $ 1 m 4.9an 5 u a pl bs, , a 0n -4d 52- AÀs L M3 8 Š3
27638-1, Plume. Uted to the AMERICANS
Essence ,L o cw o- lF lea ct t s S o eu al s y b -ty o - mJo an ke el l m N ea as lsh , f oF ro o d e v eE rd yit o dr a y f ,or Consortium t r Bad oe o kby
holiday fare, and elegant dinner parties and includes
simple tips for stripping the fat from recipes ranging Sale s 1 -& 8 0 D 0i -st 2r 8ib 3u -t 3io 5n 72
from catfish and gumbo to sweet potato pie and pine-
apple upside-down cake. $14 pb, 0-345-41363-6, One
World / Ballantine.
Jiction
In Paradise, Toni Morrison’s first novel since
winning the Nobel Prize for Literature in 1993, four
young women are brutally attacked in a convent
near an all-Black town. Each a singular provenance, The story of Harlan Jane Eagleton’s transforma-
the women suggest the vicissitudes of the era — of tion from a minor rock star's manager to a traveling
the Civil Rights movement, the Vietnam War, the faith healer, The Healing by Gayl Jones is a lyrical
counterculture, generational conflict. While the in- and at times humorous exploration of the struggle to
exorableness of the attack and efforts to avert it lie at let go of pain, anger, and even love. $23 cl, 0-8070-
the heart of the novel, Paradise also reveals the 6314-2. Beacon is also republishing Corregidora as
interior lives of individual townspeople, their collec- part of their Blue Streak series (writings by women of
tive dramas, and sweeping incongruities in color). Corregidora is an account of blues singer Ursa,
American society. “A revolution and a revelation, consumed by hatred of the 19th-century slave master
not only for the intensity of its portrayal of human who fathered both her grandmother and mother.
complexity, but also for the relentless force of its “Corregidora is the most brutally honest and painful
narrative form. A bountiful treasure of a novel.” $25 revelation of what has occurred, and is occurring in
cl, 0679433740, February. Also in audio, read by the the souls of Black men and women.” —James
author ($25.95, 0375401792) and large print ($25 tp, Baldwin. $12 pb, 0-8070-6315-0, Beacon Press.
0-375-70217-2). Distributed by Ballantine.
Volume 20 Number 5/6 43 Winter 1998
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Note: Toni Morrison was an editor at Random House rich but little-known Gullah culture of the South
in the early 1970s when she published Gayl Jones’s first two Carolina Sea Islands tracing generations of an African
novels, Corregidora and Eva's Man. Beacon will also American family. $24.95 cl, 0525941096, Dutton.
republish her book-length poem, Song for Anninho (Lotus Evie and Janey, both ten years old, are best
Press), and publish another novel, Mosquito. The Healing friends with much in common: absent fathers, broth-
is the first original novel to be published by Beacon in their ers Who are indefinitely away, both are being raised
143-year history. by their mothers. Evie is white and Janey is Black, and
What Looks Like Crazy on an Ordinary Day by for years the inequities of race so permeate their lives
Pearl Cleage is the funny, gritty, moving and life- that they remain invisible to Evie though certainly not
affirming story of Ava, a young woman who learns to Janey. It is only later in life that a startling series of
she is HIV-positive and thinks her life is over. During events forces Evie to ask Jane for forgiveness. Set in
what was to be a quick visit with her sister in her Georgia against the backdrop of the Civil Rights
hometown on her way to San Francisco, Ava discovers movement of the 50s and 60s, Night Talk by Elizabeth
how much she is needed and how much she still has Cox charts the course of Evie’s evolving conscious-
to give to this once-sleepy community that is crum- ness about the impact of racism on both of their lives.
bling under the weight of big city problems such as $23.95 cl. 1-55597-267-5, Graywolf Press. Distributed
joblessness, crack, low self-esteem and lack of sex by Consortium.
education. Cleage, as always, is brilliant and insight- Eric Jerome Dickey’s Sister Sister, a #1 Black-
ful about the complicated lives of contemporary Black board Bestseller, has been praised as “A high-spirited
women. $20 cl, 0-380-97584-X, Avon Books. celebration of Black Sisterhood. Brims with humor,
Daughters of the Dust by film director Julie outrageousness, and affection.” —Publishers Weekly.
Dash has been transformed into a novel based on her $5.99 pb, 0-451-18802-0, Signet/Penguin USA.
acclaimed film of the same name. Dash explores the One Better by Rosalyn McMillan is the story of
Spice Witherspoon, a successful restaurateur and
respected community leader in Detroit who privately
oeoo NAi LLIE struggles to hold her family together. McMillan’s pre-
vious book, Knowing, was a national bestseller. $22 cl,
“The church is 0-446-52242-2, Warner Books.
Lady Moses: A Novel by Lucinda Roy tells the
a terrible engine story of a young biracial woman and her struggle to
overcome adversity and forge her own identity. $23 cl,
of oppression. 0-06-018244-X, February, HarperFlamingo.
Sharon Mitchell's novel, Nothing But the Rent:
Elizabeth Cady Stanton WA o mNo ev ne l W A hb oo u Rt e nF eo wur T V hi eb irr a n Dt e t eA rf mri ic na an t i oA nm te or i c Fa an ce
WoMmEN WITHOUT SUPERSTITION the Trials of Modern Life With Humor... tells the
Edited by Annie Laurie Gaylor story about a friendship that sustains.... $23.95 cl,
0525943064, Dutton.
First anthology of women freethinkers. Selected He Say, She Say by Yolanda Joe is a novel of love
wri t Win og ls ls t o of n e c5 r0 a f “ t h e tr oe t Bic a r bh ae rr ao i n Ee hs r” e nf rr eo im ch . Mary and life: Sandy is a rising young radio executive look-
Biographies, 51 photos, beautiful 696-page HB i in s g w f oro kr i nl gov e h. e rH e wr a yb e s tt h rf or ui gen hd a B e seb le f, - i ma pb oa sn edk msu ap ne r v sais bo -r,
$25.00 Retail batical. Joe uses alternating voices to let her characters
Order for Women’s History Month: teach each other about life and love, responsibility
FFRF, Inc., PO Box 750-FB, Madison WI 53701 and fulfillment. $6.50 pb, 0446605700, February,
40% discount to booksellers. Free shipping. Warner; $21.95 cl, 0385485077, Doubleday.
No minimum order. Payment with order. Flight of the Blackbird, Faye McDonald Smith’s
debut novel, offers a detailed portrait of the dreams
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
and fears of middle-class African Americans who face Health & Healing for African-Americans:
systemic racism compounded by the harsh economic Straight Talk and Tips from More Than 150 Black
realities of life in the nineties. $6.50 pb, Doctors on 100 Health Concerns edited by Sheree
0446605611, Warner. Crute features advice and information for
Set in west Philadelphia in the early fi R IC Å Black women and men on concerns
sixties, Tempest Rising: A Novel by Diane including alcoholism, anemia, breast can-
McKinney-Whetstone (Tumbling) tells the cer, diabetes, high blood pressure, lupus,
story of three adolescent sisters raised sinus allergies, thyroid problems, and vagi-
financially privileged in the Black com- Í nal infections. $29.95 cl, 0-87596-365-X,
munity. Still, when their father’s catering Rodale Press. Distributed by St. Martin’s.
business collapses and he disappears,
their mother suffers a breakdown and
the girls land in foster care. $23 cl, History
0-688-14994-4, Morrow. Lest We Forget: The Passage from Africa
to Slavery and Emancipation by Velma Maia
Health & Healing Thomas is a three-dimensional interactive book
with reproductions of historic papers, memoirs,
The Black Women’s Health Book: Speaking For personal effects, and photographs from the Black
Ourselves edited by Evelyn C. White features works Holocaust Exhibit. It’s difficult to convey how power-
by authors from bell hooks to Toni Morrison. Topics ful this book is — it makes the lives of some of the
include menopause, breast-feeding, holistic healing, millions of Africans who suffered the horrors and bru-
fibroids, the evolution of the African American diet, tality of slavery very specific and personal. $29.95 cl,
skin color issues, and HIV infection. $16.95 pb, 0-609-60030-3, Crown.
1-878067-40-0, Seal Press. Distributed by PGW and Blues Legacies and Black Feminism: Gertrude
available from BP. “Ma” Rainey, Bessie Smith, and Billie Holiday by
Body and Soul, edited by Linda Villarosa, fore- Angela Y. Davis. Davis’ illuminating analysis of the
word by Angela Davis and June Jordan, is a Black songs performed by Rainey, Smith and Holiday pro-
woman's guide to physical health and emotional well- vides readers with a compelling and transformative
being. Sponsored by the National Black Women’s understanding of their musical and social contribu-
Health Project and drawing on the expertise of Black tions, stating that the artists represent a Black
female scientists, academics, health care practitioners working-class, feminist ideology and historical con-
and writers, Body and Soul addresses issues and sciousness. $27.50 cl, 0-679-45005-X, Pantheon.
concerns including coping with illness, sexual abuse, Generations: A Century of Women Speak about
AIDS, the healing power of spirituality, and more. $20 Their Lives by Myriam Miedzian and Alisa Mali-
pb, 0-06-095085-4, HarperPerennial. novich. Sweeping in scope, and yet rooted in the
Mama's Little Baby: The Black Woman’s Guide details, emotions, and dilemmas of everyday life, this
to Pregnancy, Childbirth, and Baby’s First Year by fascinating and compelling book is a collection of
Dennis Brown, M.D. and Pamela A. Toussaint is not narratives by individual women from diverse back-
only an informative, straightforward guide covering grounds — snapshots — that, together, make up a
everything a pregnant woman needs to know about portrait of what life has been like for women in the
conception, prenatal care, labor, delivery, and baby 20 century. $27.50 cl, 0-87113-678-3, Atlantic
care; it also offers the reader a wealth of cultural and Monthly Press.
historical information and inspiration. The pictures Inheritors of the Spirit: Mary White Ovington
and drawings are descriptive and useful, and the and the Founding of the NAACP by Carolyn Wedin is
quotes from expectant mothers and fathers, which the story of a remarkable woman whose vision, cour-
appear throughout the book, give the book a friendly, age, and passion for justice left an indelible mark on the
down-to-earth feel. Good for both expectant mothers 20% century. It is also the biography of an organization,
and fathers. $23.95 cl, 0-525-93989-X, Dutton /Penguin. portraying the evolution of the NAACP from a small,
Volume 20 Number 5/6 45 Winter 1998
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
mostly white volunteer staff to a well-honed bureauc- Lesbian & Gay
racy of lawyers, accountants, field secretaries, and
lobbyists run for and by African Americans. $30 cl, In One More River to Cross: Black and Gay in
0-471-16838-6, John Wiley & Sons, Inc. America Keith Boykin, the Executive Director of the
To Serve My Country, To Serve My Race: The National Black Gay & Lesbian Leadership Forum,
Story of the Only African American WACs Stationed explores being Black and gay and the relationships
Overseas During World War II, by Brenda Moore, is between Blacks and gays in America. $14.95 pb,
the story of the historic 6888th, the First U.S. Women’s 0385479832; $23.95 cl, -9824, Anchor.
Army Corps unit composed of African American “For Black lesbians, [reading Ann Allen Shock-
women to serve overseas. Under political pressure ley’s first novel, Loving Her], was like reading The
from legislators like Adam Clayton Powell, Jr., the Well of Loneliness for the first time as teenagers and
NAACP, the Black press, and even President Roosevelt, realizing there were ‘others’ out there.” —Jewelle
the U.S. War Department was forced to deploy African Gomez. Originally published in 1974, Loving Her
American women in early 1942. These women were was the first novel by an African American author to
eager to serve not only out of a sense of patriotism but deal explicitly with interracial lesbian love. It has just
out of a desire to “uplift” the race and dispel bigoted been republished, with a new foreword by Alycee J.
‚preconceptions about their abilities. $17.95 pb, 0-8147- Lane, in the Northeastern Library of Black Literature
5587-9, New York University Press. series. $12.95 pb, 155553-329-9, Northeastern Univer-
The Comfort Woman: Japan’s Brutal Regime of sity. Press.
Enforced Prostitution in The Second World War by Radclyffe Hall: A Woman Called John by Sally
George Hicks is a non-fiction account of the lives of Cline. “Cline notes that ridicule, and accusations of
Korean “comfort women.” “This solidly-researched, lack of humour, have always been a homophobic
fascinating work unearths buried history, and also weapon against lesbians. So she makes the brave but
exposes the connection between militarism, econom- risky decision to take Hall on her own terms, and treat
ics, and sexual violence — lessons as yet tragically her as the heroine she wanted to be. Cline’s commit-
unlearned.” —Robin Morgan. $14.95 pb, 0-393- ment to presenting Hall's career, not as a one-book
31694-7, W.W. Norton. scandal, but as a hard-working professional life, is
White Women, Black Men: Illicit Sex in the impressive. Above all, she places her thoughtfully
Nineteenth-Century South by Martha Hodes draws and carefully in lesbian history, showing how atti-
on sources which suggest that in the slave South, tudes of same-sex love changed during her lifetime.”
whites were not overwhelmingly concerned about —Hermoine Lee. $27.50 cl, 0-87951-831-6, The Over-
such liaisons beyond the racial and legal status of the look Press.
children that were produced. Only with Black free-
dom did the issue become a much more serious taboo
than it had ever been before. $30, 0-300-06970-7, Yale Mystery
University Press. In Gone Fishin’: An Easy Rawlins Novel,
Walter Mosley (Devil in a Blue Dress, A Red Death, RL'’s
Humor Dream) introduces readers to Ezekiel Easy Rawlins
and Raymond Mouse Alexander, providing a glimpse
The poems, songs, memoirs, stories, cartoons into the genesis of their close, complicated relation-
and one-liners in Honey, Hush! An Anthology of ship. “A powerfully raw, lyrical coming-of-age
African American Women’s Humor edited by Daryl story... This late encounter with the early Easy offers
Cumber Dance celebrate the humor and insight that an extra dimension to readers who have met, in pre-
has enabled Black women to survive and thrive, often vious stories, the man he grew to be.” —Publishers
against all odds. Contributors include Zora Neale Weekly. $22 cl, 1-57478-025-5, Black Classic Press.
Hurston, Rita Dove, Audre Lorde, Alice Walker, Cook-housekeeper-amateur sleuth Blanche
Whoopi Goldberg, and Terry McMillan. Foreword by White sorts out a scandal that starts in the stiff, hypo-
Nikki Giovanni. $30 cl, 0-393-04557-9, W.W. Norton. critical politician's household where she is working
Winter 1998 46
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
and moves to the center of her own community in absorbing and transforming collection of poetry that
Blanche Cleans Up by BarbaraNeely. Blanche doesn’t not only upholds the traditions of the ‘sistapoets’ in
take any attitude from anybody, whether she’s doing whose steps Forman follows — Audre Lorde, Alice
domestic work for others, watching out for her own Walker and Sonia Sanchez — but also boldly blazes
kids or confronting homophobia: You don’t mess brand new trails.” —Quarterly Black Review of Books.
around with Blanche’s people! “BarbaraNeely has $18 cl, 0-8070-6840-3, Beacon Press.
forever transformed the mystery novel with a heroine- Nikki Giovanni's poetry collections My House
detective who is a real woman: middle-aged, African and The Women and the Men, will be re-packaged for
American, working class, plump, feisty, funny, femi- February release. My House, first published in 1972,
nist!” —Robin Morgan. $22.95 cl, 0-670-87626-7, added a personal and autobiographical dimension to
Viking. Giovanni's political philosophy. ($7 pb, 0-688-05021-2.)
One Must Wait by Penny Mickelbury introduces The poems in The Women and the Men cover a larger
Black criminal defense attorney Carole Ann Gibson, a period of Giovanni's life and display her gifts of
partner in a high-priced law firm who warmth, precision, passion, and wit. ($7
resigns when she realizes how cynical she pb, 0-688-07947-4.) Quill/Morrow.
has become. Alain, her husband, is a high- Harlem’s Glory: Black Women
powered corporate lawyer waging his own Writing, 1900-1950, edited by Lorraine
battle with his principles. He also resigns — Elena Roses and Ruth Elizabeth
and then is murdered. Carole Ann’s search Randolph. $17.95, 0-674-37270-0,
to find out why takes her from Washington, Harvard University Press.
D.C. to the backwater swamps of Louisiana, Examining the work of such artists
and along the way she discovers secrets as Dionne Brand, Makeda Silvera, Audre
about Alain, his death, and her own history. Lorde, Rosa Guy, Michelle Cliff, and M.
$22 cl, 0-684-83741-2, Simon & Schuster. Nourbese Philip, Searching for Safe
Black Heat by Norman Kelley. Nina Spaces: Afro-Caribbean Women Writers
Halligan, a resourceful private investigator, in Exile by Myriam J.A. Chancy shows
searches for the missing daughter of a slain how these Afro-Caribbean feminists
civil rights leader. “Kelley pushes a heavy thumb examine the complex issues of race,
on hot-button issues of Black politics: Afrocentrism, nationality, gender, sexuality, and class that limit
the appeal of televangelism, what it means to be women’s lives. $19.95 pb, 1-56639-540-2, Temple
authentically Black, and FBI dirty tricks against civil University Press.
rights leaders.” —Publishers Weekly. $12.95 pb, Women of Color: Mother-Daughter Relation-
1-887276-03-3, Cool Grove Press. ships in 20th-Century Literature edited by Elizabeth
Brown-Guilty explores the mother-daughter rela-
Poetry & Literature t Aio mnsh erip i c a as n ,it Aap sp ie aa nrs i An m th ee r i w cao nrk ,s Mof e xA if cr aic nan , A A mfr eic ra in can,
Like the Singing Coming off the Drums (Love Native American, Indian, and Australian Aboriginal
Poems) is the latest book by scholar, activist, and poet women writers. Writers include Toni Morrison, Alice
Sonia Sanchez. Divided into three sections — Naked Walker, Maxine Hong Kingston, Cherríe Moraga,
in the Streets, Shake Loose My Skin, and In This Wet Leslie Marmon Silko, and Amy Tan. $14.95 pb, 0-292-
Season — Sanchez takes the reader from the most 70847-5; $40 cl, -70846-7, University of North
intimate landscapes of passion to its public celebra- Carolina Press.
tion in love poems to icons of our age, including Ella Gender in African Women’s Writing: Identity,
Fitzgerald and Tupac Shakur. $16 cl, 0-8070-6842-X, Sexuality, and Difference by Juliana Makuchi Nfah-
Beacon Press. Abbenyi develops African-centered gender analysis of
Renaissance by Ruth Forman (We Are the Young works of sub-Saharan women writers. $14.95 pb, short
Magicians). “Ruth Forman’s poetry is potent, passion- discount, 0-253-21149-2, Indiana University Press.
ate, high-energy, and uncompromisingly Black... An In Máscaras Lucha Corpi collects essays from
Volume 20 Number 5/6 47 Winter 1998
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
IN both well-known — Julia Alvarez, Ana Castillo,
Overlook Sandra Cisneros, and Cherríe Moraga — and lesser-
known yet influential contemporary Latina writers
which discuss the historical, linguistic, political, eco-
nomic, and cultural realities that have shaped them as
TWO NEW BIOGRAPHIES OF women and as writers of color in the U.S. $16.95 pb,
EXTRAORDINARY LITERARY WOMEN 0-943219-14-0. 40% for 5+. Third Woman Press, PO
Box 11187, Berkeley CA 94712; 510-525-7935, fax 510-
THE BRONTES 525-8236. Distributed by Login/Womensource and
available from BP and SPD.
he long-awaited
ollow-up to Juliet Politics & Organizing
| Barker’s monu- Over one-third of New York’s 6,500 clothing
: mental biography factories are sweatshops, as are 90% of Los Angeles’
iof the Brontës, 5,000 factories and 80% of Miami’s 500. Still, companies
1a New York Times continue to shift clothing manufacture to offshore pro-
nd Publishers duction where their costs are even cheaper: more than
Weekly Notable 60% of garments sold in the U.S. today have been
ook of the Year. imported. It’s not, of course, that these companies can’t
afford to pay living wages: Michael Jordan earned more
for endorsing Nike running shoes than all 30,000 of the
company’s Indonesian workers in a year. Who is all of
this benefiting, and at whose cost? No Sweat: Fashion,
coming February 1998 Free Trade and the Rights of Garment Workers edited
by Andrew Ross is a collection of essays by activists,
RADCLYFFE HALL journalists, human rights workers, and academics that
“Raffish and out- ë answer these questions very clearly. It’s also a beauti-
spoken, her brio, fully-designed, powerfully-illustrated book, with
her restlessness h ofig h t- hf ea s h inio tn er ia od r l oa fy o gu at rs m j eu nx tt a p fo as ce td o r iw esi t h in p Nho et wo g r Ya op rh ks 's
and...her courage 1⁄4 Chinatown, Thai workers released from captivity in a
made Radclyffe B; California sweatshop, nine-year-old factory workers,
Hall an icon and twelve-year-old child activists. $19 pb, 1-85984-
her own time, 172-4, OV ue tr s o o. f D pi rst inri tb u st ie nd c e b y th eW 8.W 0s. , N To hr et o An. fro-American
and she remains Woman: Struggles and Images edited by Sharon
so in ours.” Harley and Rosalyn Terborg-Penn, a classic collection
JEANETTE WINTERSON, of essays which analyzes Black women’s experiences
Tne Times (London) from an historical and Black nationalist perspective,
has been republished by Black Classic Press. $10.95
coming February 1998 pb, 1-57478-026-3. Distributed by PGW.
The contributors in African Women and
TO ORDER CALL Feminism: Reflecting on the Politics of Sisterhood
The Overlook Press V edited by Oyeronke Oyewumi, confront issues raised
914/679-6838 by the (mis)representation of African women by both
Black and white American feminists and question the
Distributed to the trade by Penguin Putnam idea that a common anatomy can form the basis of
Winter 1998 48
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
solidarity amongst women of different colors, cultures, In Men We Cherish Brooke Stephens collects 30
classes, nations, and religions. Contributors also dis- essays, memoirs, and love letters by African American
cuss the uses and abuses of female circumcision in the women about the everyday heroes in their lives.
global feminist discourse, problems with the criminali- $14.95 pb, 0385485328, Anchor.
zation approach to eradicating female circumcision, In Brothers on the Mend: Understanding and
the effect of development policy on African woman, Healing Anger for African-American Men and
and gender imperialism as encountered by _ Women Ernest H. Johnson, Ph.D., helps Black men
African women in the academy. $21.95 pb, | — and those who care about them — iden-
0-86543-628-2; $79.95 cl, -627-4, Africa tify anger related to race and gender and
World Press, Inc. offers a variety of prescriptive measures,
On Being Female, Black, and Free from the practical to the spiritual, for
Essaýs by Margaret Walker, 1932-1992, managing anger, coping with stress, and
edited by Maryemma Graham, brings to reducing conflict in relationships. $24 cl,
one volume the previously uncollected 0-671-51145-9, Pocket Books.
essays that represent Walker’s creative || In Succeeding Sane: Making Room for
and philosophical vision. Author of | Joy in a Crazy World Bonnie St. John Deane
Jubilee and winner of the 1942 Yale — a disabled, African American Olympic ski
Younger Poets Series, Walker writes on a medalist, Rhodes scholar, former White
range of topics including her personal House official, and businesswoman — shares
perspectives, on subjects from the role of her personal strategy for making it to the top
a Black woman artist to the distinctiveness without sacrificing the things most important.
of African American cultural life and the importance of $23 cl, 0-684-81853-1, Simon & Schuster.
education in the fight for political change. $16 pb, o o °
0-87046-981-5, University of Tennessee Press. Conironting Bacism
The Black Notebooks: An Interior Journey,
Psychology, Relationships begun as series of journal entries, offers an intimate
& Healing record of Toi Derricotte’s encounters with family,
neighbors, friends, students, and colleagues where
Willow Weep for Me: A Black Woman’s Journey she is forced to question what it means to be a Black
Through Depression by Meri Nana-Ama Danquah woman living in a racially-divided world. “Where are
chronicles a woman's descent into despair and offers the adjectives for a work that tears out your heart and
a powerful meditation on courage and survival. brings you to the broken dreams of your childhood,
$23.95 cl, 0393045676, Norton. adolescence and adulthood over and over again? The
In What the Blues Is All About: Black Women Black Notebooks is not just one of the best books on
Overcoming Stress and Depression Angela Mitchell race I have ever read but is just simply one of the best
looks at depression among African American women books I have ever read.” —Sapphire, Push. $21.95 cl,
and offers resources that empower readers to be more 0-393-04544-7, W.W. Norton.
informed, enlightened, and better equipped to cope. “Through maternal, autobiographical reflection,
$12.95 pb, 0399523766, Perigee. Jane Lazarre confronts the white racism that has shaped
In the Meantime: Finding Yourself and the American society and remains our harshest tragedy and
Love That You Want by Iyanla Vanzant (Acts of Faith deepest challenge.” —Sara Ruddick. Recalling events
and The Value in the Valley) reaches out to anyone who that opened her eyes to her sons’ and husband’s experi-
yearns for love, showing women how to view rela- ence as Black Americans and her own revealing
tionships as an ongoing process of discovery and missteps, Lazarre describes a movement from silence to
growth, and how relationships can help women voice, to a commitment to action in Beyond the White-
reach new levels of awareness, spiritual growth, and ness of Whiteness: Memoir of a White Mother of Black
fulfillment. $23 cl, 0684841363, Simon & Schuster. Sons. $12.95 pb, 0-8223-2044-4, Duke University Press.
Volume 20 Number 5/6 49 Winter 1998
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
In Killing Rage: Ending Racism bell hooks
addresses the psychological trauma of racism includ-
http://www.spinifèxpress.com.au/~women ing internalized biases in the movies and media, the
complex struggles between Black and white women,
Daughters of the Pacific Black anti-Semitism, and the possibility of finding —
by Zohil de Ishtar in one’s rage against repeated acts of racism — the
seeds of strength. $12.95 pb, 0-8050-5027-2, Holt.
Indigenous women The Color of Privilege: Three Blasphemies on
from across the Race and Feminism (Critical Perspectives on
Pacific - Hawai'i, Fiji, Women & Gender) by Aída Hurtado explores how
Te Ao Maohi/Tahiti women of different ethnic/racial groups conceive of
Polynesia, Australia, feminism. Hurtado advances a theory of relational
Aotearoa/New privilege to explain that the different responses to
Zealand - have a feminism by white women and women of color reflect
voice in this book. Pea aa differing relationship to white men and their privilege
rather than personal or cultural differences. $13.95 pb,
ISBN 1-875559-32-9 Ige format paper $19.95 0-472-06531-9, University of Michigan Press.
Making Meaning of Whiteness: Exploring
S The Idea of Prostitution Racial Identity with White Teachers by Alice McIn-
by Sheila Jeffreys tyre describes how a group of white female student
teachers examined their “whiteness” and developed
A new analysis chal- ways of thinking critically about race and racism in
lenges the idea of educational practice. Their teaching strategies were
prostitution as sexual aimed to disrupt and eliminate the oppressiveness
liberation. of white privilege in education. $18.95 pb, 0-7914-
3496-6; $57.50 cl, -3495-8, State University of New
York Press.
M pISa ar B pch N e r 9 8 1 $- 18 97 .5 95 559-65-5 O Clb as se ss ) s e pI dn r o W bC eo o sl r o lr td- h B eEl i l n l did es: p t CS hoe sse ei n o fg (T h “B e te hy eRo an g Ad e m R eo ra fc i ce a a n i n P mr ia v i ni l dR e ”ga c e e d a- nd
exposes the contradictions, fears, hopes, and illusions
The Spinster and Her Enemies embedded in our society’s perceptions of race. Draw-
by Sheila Jeffreys ing on the experiences of South Africa and Latin
The much-awaited re- America, Cose illustrates why it has beeri impossible
fr ee mlea inse i s to f t e t xh t.i s W c il tas hs i c a S PINLSTE th Re and pf ti uo or rn gs at t h h oe re yl lU n wti ot h e ed u r t e o S pt mia at o e ss w t i t t lo h e go aum lt o bv p ae a r s rsd ii ei nr rge s c t t hl hy ar v o ef u r g do h rm o pa pr ea dce rela-
revised and updated away, but racial misunderstanding and deeply in-
introduction. grained prejudices persist. $13 pb, 0-06-092887-5,
M ISar Bch N 9 8 1-875559-63-9 Februa r Ty h, e H na ar rp re ar tP iver ese n n inia l . As We Are Now: Mixblood
paper $14.95 Essays on Race and Identity edited by William S.
YJUOWN Á101SIH S, UƏUWOM ZP Áe101nS!IHn 29,eg B ueeqəəxplore the untamed territory of race and
dN AAi T WETS mixblood identity in North America. These writings
cross racial, national, and disciplinary boundaries in
Tel 718-351-9599 Fax 718-980-4262 their experimental approaches to writing culture.
$45 cl, 0-520-21072-7; $16.95 pb, -21073-5, University
of California.
Winter 1998 50
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Black, Jewish, and Interracial: It’s Not essays representing the latest work in
the Color of Your Skin, But the Race of African American studies. $18.95 pb,
Your Kin, and Other Myths of Identity by 0-8147-4228-9, NYU Press.
Katya Gibel Azoulay blends historical, Displacing Whiteness: Essays in
theoretical, and personal perspectives to Social and Cultural Criticism edited by
explore the possibilities and meanings that Ruth Frankenberg is a collection of essays
arise when Black and Jewish identities by academics from a range of disciplines
merge. Azoulay challenges deeply-in- which examine contemporary meanings
grained assumptions about identity and of whiteness. The authors labor to resitu-
moves toward a consideration of comple- ate whiteness from its unspoken status as
mentary racial identities. $15.95 pb, | the “unmarked marker:” to displace and
0-8223-1971-3; $45.95 cl, -1975-6, Duke | then re-place it. $17.95 pb, 0-8223-2021-5;
University Press. 3 $49.95 cl, -2011-8. Duke University Press.
Her Majesty's Other Children: Sketches of
Racism from a Neocolonial Age by Lewis R. Gordon Science
is a collection of essays which challenge the reader to
theorize about the essential lived-experience of anti- Our Mothers of Invention: Women in Science
Black racism. “A brilliant blend of philosophy, memoir, — Medicine & Inventors, Ancient to Modern by
and cultural analysis, Her Majesty’s Other Children Edna M. Swan looks at 100 women of African descent
reflects Lewis Gordon’s ongoing commitment to pur- and from Africa who have invented and created in
sue critical scholarship that cuts across academic fields of science and medicine. Swan provides names,
disciplines and geographic borders, straight to the dates, accomplishments, biographical sketches,
heart of the urgent questions we face on the cusp of the photos, patent drawings, and personal statements.
new millennium.” —Angela Y. Davis. $17.95 pb, $14.95 pb, BlaCast Entertainment.
0-8476-8448-2, Rowman & Littlefield Publishers.
Distributed by National Book Network.
The House That Race Built: Essays by Toni Spirituality & Inspiration
Morrison, Angela Davis, Cornel West, and Others on Embracing the Spirit: Womanist Perspectives
the State of Race and Gender Relations in America on Hope, Salvation and Transformation edited by
Today, edited and introduced by Wahneema Lubiano, Emilie M. Townes (A Troubling in My Soul: Womanist
examines the crisis of democracy represented by the Perspectives on Evil and Suffering) brings together
recent, ominous shift toward a renewed white racial essays by leading womanist theologians, interweav-
nationalism. $14 pb, 0679760687, March, Vintage. ing a concern for matters of race, gender, and class, as
In Black on White: Black Writers on What it they impact the survival and well-being of the African
Means to Be White, editor David R. Roediger brings American community. $20 pb, 1-57075-140-4, Orbis
together the voices of significant Black writers Books. Distributed by Westminster /John Knox Press.
throughout history to explore the question: What does Many Strong and Beautiful Voices by Quinn Eli
it really mean to be white in America? Contributors collects a multitude of quotations from Africans and
include James Baldwin, bell hooks, Jamaica Kincaid, people of African descent who are dispersed through-
Amiri Baraka, W.E.B. DuBois, Frederick Douglass, out the world. Strong and beautiful, these voices
Langston Hughes, and Toni Morrison. $24 cl, 0-8052- speak of what it means to live among a myriad of
4146-9, Schocken. vibrant cultures and still preserve a distinct identity.
What is the significance of race, Blackness, and The words reverberate with the pain of the past and
African American culture in American society as present — fighting hatred and ignorance — resound
America exits its first century without chattel slavery with pride and empowerment, and are filled with
and enters its first century without codified segrega- hope and confidence. $12.95 cl, 0-7624-0168-0.
tion? Race Consciousness edited by Judith Jackson Running Press, 125 South 22nd Street, Philadelphia
Fossett and Jeffrey A. Tucker is a collection of original PA 19103. Available from BP.
Volume 20 Number 5/6 51 Winter 1998
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
In Black Profiles in Courage: A Legacy of $17.95 pb, 0-933377-42-8, $24.95 cl, -43-6. Eighth
African American Achievement basketball star Mountain Press, 624 SE 29th Avenue, Portland OR
Kareem Abdul-Jabbar and black history scholar Alan 97214; Consortium.
Steinberg offer an introduction to Black history that In The African-American Travel Guide Wayne
focuses on the inspiring true stories of extraordinary Robinson highlights sights and attractions of particu-
men and women who typified the virtues of integrity, lar interest to African Americans: landmarks,
discipline and self-respect. The profiles include Rosa museums/exhibits, galleries, churches, colleges,
Parks, Harriet Tubman, Frederick Douglass, Peter specialty shops, bookstores, clothing stores, restau-
Salem, a volunteer soldier who turned the tide at rants, jazz clubs, comedy clubs, lodgings/bed &
Bunker Hill, and Joseph Cinque, the leader of the breakfasts, heritage tours, travel agents, radio stations,
daring revolt on the slave ship Amistad. $6.99 pb, newspapers and magazines. Includes a calendar of
038073060X, Avon; $22 cl, 0688130976, Morrow. events, maps, photos, and an index. $15.95 pb, 1-55650-
The Wisdom of the Elders by Robert Fleming 797-6. Hunter Publishing, 130 Campus Drive, Edison
collects 150 unedited writings and speeches from such NJ 08818; Ingram and B&T.
luminaries as Sojourner Truth, W.E.B. Du Bois, Martin
HLu anth sber er rK yi ,n g Z, o rJ ar ., N eE all eij a h H u M rsu th onam , m Me ad r, y L Mor cr La ei on de Work
Bethune, Barbara Jordan, and Paul Robeson. $12 pb, In Sister CEO: The Black Woman’s Guide to
0-345-40975-2, One World /Ballantine. Starting Your Own Business Cheryl D. Broussard (The
Black Woman's Guide to Financial Independence) com-
bines practical information and instruction with
Sports dozens of real-life stories, showing the reader how to
Venus to the Hoop: A Gold-Medal Year in take control of “your destiny by being in command of
Women’s Basketball by Sara Corbett chronicles the the work you do.” $12.95 pb, 0-14-025302-5, Penguin.
year-long journey of twelve extraordinary women Earl G. Graves, Founder and Publisher of Black
basketball players from the time they were chosen for Enterprise Magazine, provides encouraging, concrete
the 1996 Olympic team through months of practice advice in How to Succeed in Business Without Being
and learning to play as a cohesive unit and dealing White: Straight Talk on Making it in America. “A
with the pressures of being media-hyped women clarion call for African Americans to pick up the
athletes. $23.95 cl, 0-385-48682-0, Doubleday. gauntlet thrown down by the forces in this nation that
No Bull is Dan Bickley’s unauthorized biography believe Black Americans cannot — even, dare not —
of Chicago Bulls star Dennis Rodman. $23.95 cl, succeed.” —Colin Powell. $25 cl, 0-88730-808-2,
0312171196, St. Martin’s. HarperBusiness.
Black Women in the Academy: Promises and
Travel Perils, edited by Lois Benjamin, contains provocative
essays exploring the themes of identity, power, and
In Go Girl! The Black Woman’s Guide to Travel change. Thirty-three Black woman academics and
and Adventure Elaine Lee collects 52 tales that cover administrators from around the country discuss their
the globe and explore the spectrum of reasons for experiences with America’s institutions of higher
traveling. This guide provides sister-to-sister advice education. $49.95 cl, short discount, 0-8130-1500-6,
on everything from how to travel inexpensively and University Press of Florida.
safely to staying healthy on the road and creating a In Becoming Gentlemen: Women, Law School,
travel fund. The stories also explore issues of particu- and Institutional Change Lani Guinier, Michelle Fine,
lar concern to Black women such as dealing with and Jane Balin dare readers to question what it means
racism, overcoming fears, and claiming entitlement. to be qualified, what a fair goal in education might be,
Contributors include Alice Walker, Maya Angelou, Jill and what can be learned from the experience of
Nelson, Evelyn C. White, Linda Villarosa, Gloria women law students about teaching and evaluating all
Wade-Gayles, Opal Palmer Adisa, and Lucinda Roy. students. $12.50 pb, 0-8070-4405-9, Beacon. O
Winter 1998 52
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
The Women’s Bookstop gay elected official in the country, except for one in
333 Main Street West L.A. and one in Cook County, IL.
Hamilton, ONT L8P 1K1 This is an especially sweet victory for me. It was
Canada 1975 when we started the Houston Gay Political Cau-
Dear FBN, cus in my living room — one lesbian, three gay men,
Just a note to say we love Feminist Bookstore News. and a small dog. In 1976, I ran for a very small public
Of everything related to this business, your input is office as an open lesbian. Only 21 years later, Annise
the most useful, blunt, demystifying, progressive, got 144,000 votes in a relatively civil campaign.
no-nonsense, and above all, feminist. Change does happen.
If there is ever a danger of losing you (heaven Pokey Anderson
forbid), please let us all know so we can help to keep
you strong.
Renee Amazon Bookstore
1612 Harmon Place
| Minneapolis MN 55403
3420 Pillsbury Avenue $S. Dear Booksellers,
Minneapolis MN 55408 I'm so excited! Here’s a lesson in the power of
Dear FBN, threes. Or is it just plain serendipity? Really, new and
Kudos for kicking butt in your coverage and old things can work powerfully together!
conversation about the entire Penguin antitrust As you know, Amazon is in Minneapolis and St.
debacle. It was most illuminating, as was the conver- Paul is the “twin” city just on the other side of the
sation with Joan about distribution rethink. river. It’s only 10-15 minutes away, but many people
Donna Niles here act as if it was a full day’s trip! (Perhaps the folks
traveling between San Francisco and Oakland under-
stand the psychology of it!)
Inklings
1846 Richmond Avenue
Houston TX 77098
Dear FBN,
We are so proud! Annise Parker, co-founder and Anyway, we often hear from our customers that
half-owner of Inklings Bookshop, has just been coming from St. Paul to Minneapolis is just too much
elected to Houston City Council. Annise is an open — they like the store but just don’t make it that often
lesbian, the first-ever open lesbian or gay man to be because they have to cross the river. Well, you know
elected to public office here in the nation’s 4th-largest me, always big on ideas and willing to try something
city. Annise, winning after two previous attempts fell new! We decided that on a trial basis we would offer
short, got 58% of the vote city-wide. This means she a pick-up site in St. Paul (my house since I live there).
represents a larger constituency than any other openly Customers could call in their orders to the store and
53 Winter 1998
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
we'd take the merchandise to St. Paul for them to worth of books just from the Catalog!
pick-up. (They could look with no obligation to buy.) Here are the lessons I re-learned:
We only had two folks take us up on it — but it was 1. Risky exhibits or ones that seem unprofitable
worth the try. are sometimes just worth doing — if for no other
One of the two customers told me that she never reason than to freshen your mailing list.
goes into Minneapolis — but she just happened to go, 2. Even if you doubt they'll work, it’s often worth
last September, for a health fair because a quilt she had it to try something new and a little quirky.
worked on was being displayed there. She came by 3. The Feminist Bookstore Catalog really works.
the Amazon table and signed up to be on our mailing (Well, I knew that but it was nice to have such a clear
list — she had heard of us but had never been to the example of it!)
store. (This was one of those exhibits that we did for For very little work, we made just about $200
good will and advertising, lost money, and hope that from only two customers and we have a new feminist
it has some future benefit.) customer who will probably stay with us for some
So, she received our holiday mailing that had the time! I think I'll keep delivering to St. Paul for awhile!
Feminist Bookstores’ Fall Catalog in it — and the My spirits are lifted!
mention that we would deliver to St. Paul. She was Mev (Miller)
extremely grateful and she bought more than $150 mev@winternet.com
Responses to the two distribution articles we ran pendent bookstores, and have been told that copies of
in the last issue are still coming in as we go to press. this article are being circulated to store buyers.
We're running the first responses here, and will run
more responses in the next issue. The first article, These articles have also called up larger questions
“Distribution: Does It Work?” was intended to launch that have not yet been answered:
a conversation that will continuein a variety of forums ° Have sales among feminist presses dropped in the
as well as in the pages of FBN. The second, “The last two years?
Mathematic$ of Distribution and Wholesaling,” out- ° Have increased sales offset the cost of double dis-
lined who gets what percentage of the distribution counting or has publisher income actually
dollar, and the effect on publishers of “double dis- dropped?
counting” (when a publishers sells to a distributor e One publisher pointed out that her distributor has
who then sells to a wholesaler who, finally, sells to the built in a series of extra charges or increased
bookstore) on publishers’ bottom lines. Both articles charges that take effect during negative balance
were co-written by Joan Pinkvoss (Aunt Lute Books) months (due to more returns than sales), which
and Carol Seajay (FBN). If you didn’t receive this issue offset the distributors’ cost, but that publishers may
and would like a copy, please call FBN; 415-642-9993. want to reconsider during these times.
Some of the most meaningful responses (to me) ° (How) are publishers changing what they publish
have been from booksellers who have called to say, “I’ve in these high-return times?
been in the business for eight years (another caller said o Are distributors (in general or specifically) paying
eighteen years), and I didn’t know how distribution less attention to feminist presses than in years past?
worked, or the impact of my own buying decisions.” Doing less promotion and / or letting feminist press
“Reading this article has changed where I order books titles sink lower on the sales lists (as new publishers
from feminist publishers — I need to support our are added, or for other reasons)?
publishers in this way.” “I read the articles over the o Are chains ordering and keeping fewer feminist
weekend, then came in and wrote separate orders to press titles in stock now than in years past? If so, is
LPC, Consortium, and PGW — and it took all day!” this part of the larger picture of chains’ tightening
I've also heard from booksellers in general inde- their inventory control or are chainstore buyers
Winter 1998 54 Volume 20 Number 5/6
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
who normally buy independent and literary Shipments by mail take up to six weeks to get here and
presses titles simply discriminating (based on their the invoice is due as soon as we get the books, but
own tastes and perceptions?) against feminist press faster methods are prohibitive price-wise.
books? Are chainstore buyers locked in a seventies- I do like forming a relationship with each publisher.
early-eighties perception that women aren't very I also like the idea of delayed billing for large
interesting? orders, especially if everyone’s offer doesn’t come at
o Why aren't feminist press books appearing on the same time of year. Some flexibility would be nice
chains’ (free) “discovery” programs? Are distribu- so all the delayed bills aren't due at the same time —
tors and/or chains (increasingly) reticent about i.e., it would be nice if we could stagger our orders and
promoting lesbian books? not have everyone's offer be, e.g., in April only.
° If Ingram devotes one warehouse primarily to ful- In terms of political considerations, I find that my
filling B&N orders, what percentage do publishers store works quite well incorporating left wing books,
receive from distributors’ sales to Ingram for the queer studies, postcolonial studies, since my defini-
books sold to B&N through this channel? tion of feminism does include issues of race, class,
gender, sexual orientation. I think all these areas nur-
Hopefully we'll get written elaboration on some ture each other and make for a rich human rights
of these issues in time for the next issue. In the mean- dialogue. I think that including these areas means that
time, here are some of the responses we've received. feminism is continually renewed and continues to
Carol reach a new and younger market.
I also like the idea of a joint catalogue featuring
all the new feminist press titles, which includes order-
Orlando Books Ltd. ing information — directing readers to feminist
10640 Whyte Ave. bookstores, of course.
Edmonton, Alberta T6E 2A7 Thanks for all your thinking.
403-432-7633 Jackie (Dumas)
Dear Carol & Joan & FBN, orlando@compusmart.ab.ca
Loved your article about distribution. I agree it’s
time to be more proactive about all of this.
From my Canadian perspective: 980 Yonge St. #609
On the whole I like the formula of Toronto Ontario M4W 3V8
50% nonreturnable Dear Carol and all at FemBkNews,
40% with 20% returnable Loved your take on “Mathematic$ of Distribution
20% fully returnable and Wholesaling” but didn’t you leave out the author’s
For ordering direct from publishers. It’s simple royalty from “cost of production”? If the writer gets her
and straightforward, especially if each order can be fair share, about 10% of list price, usually, then the
treated differently — i.e., if we can choose which publisher has even less margin left after all those dis-
discount option we want per order. Alternatively, counts. Of course, as in your last paragraph, sell the
frontlist titles would have to be treated differently whole printing as “hurts” and, in most cases, the pub-
from backlist, i.e., I'm happy to buy all backlist at 50% lisher doesn’t have to pay royalties.
nonreturnable and frontlist at 40% returnable. Eve Zaremba
One problem with bypassing distributors: none Not chopped liver but author of six Helen Keremos
of this works for Canada unless U.S. publishers get detective novels published by Second Story Press.
GST accounts with Revenue Canada. Otherwise we
have to have things shipped through the mail since the [Ed. Note: We did include a $.70 royalty on our mythi-
post office charges only $5.00 to clear a shipment cal $10 book in the cost of production, but Eve’s point that
through Customs [if the GST has not been charged] authors don't get royalties on “hurts” underscores another
and other carriers such as UPS charge us about $25.00 problem in the off-kilter eco-system of the contemporary
to clear through Customs, which we can’t afford. publishing situation.)
55 Winter 1998
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Laugh Lines Press Yet, my reality is that any system wherein Laugh
PO Box 259 Lines would sell only to independents and would refuse
Bala Cynwd PA 19004 to sell to chains would be financial suicide for this press.
Dear Carol and FBN, Distribution is a nightmare. And it’s getting
Thanks for tackling this awful topic. worse. I have cut back on my print runs and on the
Here are my thoughts in no particular order: number of titles I publish yearly, but this means the
Laugh Lines has offered a 50% discount with no mini- world to me and I am in it for the long run.
mum order (we pick up postage on + 5 orders) to all My heart always leaps with joy when I get a new
bookstores for several years now. Only a very few FBN in the mail. You have no idea how important it is
stores have ever taken us up on this and ordered to read it and to feel that I am not alone. You are doing
directly from us, even though we ship books out really crucial work and don’t ever forget it!
within a day of receiving any order. Best,
I can only conclude that the ease of dealing with Roz Warren
middlemen and the value of being able to delay pay- RozWarren@aol.com
ment make most booksellers prefer to order through
middlemen, even if a larger discount is available with a PS: The publication party for Laugh Lines’ new title,
direct order from a publisher. Given the ungodly The Joy of Soy: Vegetarian Cartoons by Vance Lehmkuhl,
amount of paperwork that direct ordering from scads of was held yesterday at a local independent bookstore and
publishers would require, who can blame them? it was a great success. We sold 20 copies, which is an
(With respect to requiring payments with orders, entire 1% of our print run, and had lots of fun.
my own experiences with allowing booksellers to
delay payment rather than paying with their order
have not been happy ones. Some stores pay promptly. Bluestocking Books
Most do not.) PO Box 50998
Irvine CA 92619
714-835-5595
Dear Carol and FBN,
Thank-you for the new Publishers’ column in
Unhappily, based upon the print-outs provided FBN. Working in a one-woman press can be rewarding
to me by my largest distributor (LCP Group) it but is also very isolated. I did join the BookBabes list
appears that the majority of Laugh Lines titles being but we never seemed to say much on it and then it
ordered are being ordered by chains. I don’t want this closed. [Ed. Note: BookBabes has since reopened.]
to be true, but it is. If it weren’t for the chains (even Regarding your article on distributors: I am still
taking into account their ludicrous return rates) this pondering getting a distributor because my sales are
press would be kaput. I would be selling so few books so slow I would take the risk of losses and returns in
that there would be no point in continuing. order to get the books circulating. About two months
One title in particular, Who Cares If It's A Choice, is ago I contacted three other feminist presses and they
routinely ordered in fairly large numbers by one of the said that even though the distributor sales were bad,
chains and is selling through. I am pleased that Who these sales were still approximately 50% of their
Cares If It's A Choice is selling strongļly. It is a good, income. However after reading that Rising Tide and
lesbian/gay-positive and (I hope) subversive book. Papier Mache have cancelled distributor contracts,
I would be happier if these sales were via inde- both of these being experienced presses, I must stop
pendents rather than thru a chain. and do some more thinking.
But these sales are keeping this press alive. I like the discount schedule proposed by Aunt
I do not embrace the chains. (Borders returned Lute. A modification I would make is that I would
close to 200 copies of one of my titles recently.) (Thanks require all sales be pre-paid. I am changing my rate
a lot, schmucks! I thought but did not say to them, schedule in January and am considering going to:
having been raised by my mother to be polite.) 50% discount
Winter 1998 56 Volume 20 Number 5/6
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
pre-paid Feminist Bookstore News is — a listing of books from
no refunds these presses? Perhaps you could create a yearly index
shipping $3.00 flat charge no matter how big the of the books listed in your own publication and this
order. would become a feminist press list. You are already
After buying an accounting system this year that sitting on the information you are proposing to gather.
gives me detailed aging reports I realized that on Margaret Gillon
net-30 orders from library jobbers, the jobbers were publisher@bluestocking.com
taking 3—4 months to pay. On net-30 orders to feminist
bookstores(!), some bookstores have taken as long as
five months to pay, and I have had to call them 3—4 And a later email from Roz/Laugh Lines:
times to receive payment! The LPC Group has decided to discontinue Laugh
On your idea about having a master order list for Lines along with some other fine woman-owned
all feminist presses, it would be a huge amount of presses as of next June. As a result, I am scrambling
work. After I published Lesbians-In-Print I talked to a around to find alternative routes for getting my books
librarian who is one of the nation’s specialists in into bookstores.
feminist books. When I said I might do a feminist Right after I emailed that Borders = Schmucks
bibliography next she almost died laughing and then rant, my local Borders ordered 50 copies of one of
explained that we were talking tens-of-thousands of Laugh Lines’ new titles, on a nonreturnable basis. The
books. Of course we were talking about all feminist seesawing between large returns (Ouch!) and large
books, not feminist books by feminist presses, so list- order s (HurRrah!) meanos it’s iznevitab le th at a osmall
ing only books by these presses may be viable. press like Laugh Lines is destined to enjoy a severe
Do you know how many presses are out there and love-hate relationship with the chains.
how many titles are involved? Isn't that part of what
Subscribe!
Name
Business Name or Affiliation
Address
City/PState/Ziphone Fax Email
[H 1 year — $70.* Check enclosed. [J Publicist [H General independent
[J 1 year — $75. Bill us. [J Reader/Bibliophile [H Alternative/political
[J Plus $23 for international postage. O Writer [H Spiritual, Wiccan, New Age
[J Plus $10 for Canadian postage. [D Other
Bookstores:
[1] Half year — $35.
[J Sample copy — $6. B Peo ro ik os dt io cr ae lss :, Publishers, and [ [J W Mue h ipa lv ee oo cn ae os nto s:r e o n ol fy
J lt l t i # stores:
I am/We are: 1s your focus primarily: Owned by:
[H Bookseller (see also column 3) [H Feminist H women men D both
[H Publisher [J Lesbian ___% of stock by/for/about women
[J Periodical [1 Lesbian & Gay ____% of staff are women
I [O S OLEibNra r iSan e HE GSaHy e rY e asra aoepiesnaeade:r 1 9aa EEAS
Volume 20 Number 5/6 57 Winter 1998
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsSACRED CIRCLES
Jus: as the conscious-
ness-raising movement will gladden and deepen
of the 60s gave women the lives of countless
the strength to access women, bringing them
our political and per- home to the rich, feisty
sonal power, spirituality community they
groups in the 90s give deserve. True self-dis-
us the permission to covery and spiritual
journey into our spirit growth arise, like flame,
and soul. This wonder- in the simple radiance of
ful book is a joyously shared experience—and
written, detailed how-to Sacred Circles shows us
guide for that journey— how.”
and an inspiration as —Joanna Macy, Ph.D.,
well. By the end I had author of World as
not only the confidence Lover World as Self
to start a group but also
the aching desire to
belong to one!”
A primer for any
—Carol Saline, woman who wants to
author of Sisters and be part of a spirituality
Mothers and Daughters group to explore the
sacred ...A major
contribution to the
spiritual revolution a
—Dr. Lauren Artress,
° C ia r c lec sopy of Sacred sy t aho cru ro e u da g n hd c i r yy co lo euu r r w f ig tir hro stup ° ° a sp el ce ia ad le r i’ ts e mg su i d te o Sau act rh eo dr Po af t h Walking a
° an audio tape help you enhance
w/ music prepared simple cues for you the experience and
Rby ob it nh e D ea eu nt h Cor as r: nes t oo f f t u fr on r t dh ise c u t sa sp ioe n .player cm anak dle e s it a np de r s oo tn ha el r, like
and Sally Craig lead ° 20 invitations surprises
a HarperSanFrancisco
AA ls oD i vaivsaioilna b loef f Hroarmp e rHCaorlplienrsCPoulblilnisshCearnsadaLtd.
58 Volume 20 Number 5/6
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsfor the short form claim is a photocopy of a publisher
or wholesaler invoice or a cancelled check or a wire
transfer receipt.
Alternately, stores may file the longer form,
which requires providing data on direct and indirect
Every independent bookstore that bought purchases of Penguin books. Full details (including
Penguin books (even one) during calendar year 1996 lists of Penguin imprints and distributed lines during
and was a member of ABA at any time between 1996) are included in the claims packet, as well as a list
November 28, 1995, and September 29, 1997, is eligible of wholesalers that will provide 1996 co-op reports to
for a minimum of $1,000 as its share of ABA’s recent help booksellers document indirect purchases.
$25 million antitrust settlement with Penguin. Although ABA cannot advise booksellers in making
The settlement came about after Penguin the decision about which form to file, it is expected
acknowledged that it had given approximately $77 that bookstores with annual sales of less than $250,000
million in preferential (and illegal, under antitrust are unlikely to benefit from filing the longer form. Any
laws) discounts to chain stores after it had signed the eligible bookstore that submits the longer form will
consent decree with ABA. receive at least the $1,000 minimum payment.
To be eligible for the payout, stores must have Minimum documentation claims will be distrib-
been regular members of ABA while the litigation or uted first. Once all of these claims have been
investigation were underway, and must have pur- processed, the remainder of the $12.5 million distribu-
chased at least one book published or distributed by tion will be divided proportionally among members
Penguin USA in 1996, either direct from Penguin or who submitted the longer form based on their docu-
from any distributor or wholesaler. mented Penguin purchases.
Believing that every ABA-member store is disad- FBN’s understanding is that stores that have
vantaged by these violations, and in recognition of closed, but were open and members of ABA during
members’ support of ABA’s assertive legal stance this time period, are also eligible for these payments.
regarding antitrust violations, the minimum payment If you have not received your claims packet or if
per store has been set at $1,000, an amount that will you have further questions, call the ABA Claims
surely be a boon to smaller stores. Stores may also Center Hotline at 800-481-1730.
apply to receive a larger part of the settlement.
ABA has established the ABA Claims Center in
W claa is mhi sn g pt ao cn k, e t D . wC. a, s t so e n a td m toi n i ss tt oe rr e s t h ine c Dl ea cim ems, b e a rn .d a indepe n Bd ee sn tt s eB lo leok r s t o Lre iss’ t
The claims packet includes both a “short form”
and a “full documentation claim form.” To receive the
$1,000 “minimum documentation claim,” stores must Sanj Kiharoa nd the folks at Wordsworth: not
affirm that they were regular members of ABA during only think it’s time for a bestseller list that reflects
the above period of time and that they purchased at sales at independent bookstores (which are notori-
least one book published or distributed by Penguin ously different from the “bestsellers” reported by
USA during 1996. The only documentation required chain stores), they've launched it. It’s up and running
59 Winter 1998
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
and posted at {www.notachain.com}. (You've gotta
love that domain name.) Bookselling This Week and
several other journals have expressed interest in pub-
lishing the list, which is likely to grow in stature to
rival the NYT Bestseller List in industry influence.
All independent stores — including feminist,
African American, and gay specialty stores — are
encouraged to participate so that the list will truly
reflect the books that the diverse community of inde-
pendent bookstores is selling.
Highlights of the first lists include Seal Press’
Nowle’s Passing: A Novel by Edith Forbes, Bound Feet & Authorless events are all the rage among publish-
Western Dress by Pang-Mei Natasha Chang, a very ers. Obviously there’s a lot in these events for the
feminist reflection on her great-aunt’s life and her publishers — i.e., it’s cheaper to create and send out
own, and Black Odyssey: The Case of the Slave Ship event kits than to fly authors around the country, but
Amistad by Mary Cable. Margaret Atwood’s Alias more importantly, stores that are off-the-beaten track
Grace, which received short shrift on the more chain- or that don’t have a big enough annual buy from a
oriented bestseller lists when it was released in publisher to get authors can also benefit from the
hardcover, also appears on this list. programs.
Participating in this list may be one of the most Bookstores in non-destination cities have, of
efficient and effective ways that feminist and other course, been doing authorless events for years before
passionately involved booksellers can draw national the concept was a buzzword (see almost every “Book-
attention to the books that are most important to us store News” column FBN has run for the last three
and our customers. In this era of corporate publishers years) but the enthusiasm from publishers should
canceling books due to low advance orders from chain result in useful special events kits, some ideas we
buyers, it is essential to find new ways to convince wouldn't have otherwise invented, and co-op funds
publishers of the salability of the kinds of books that to help finance the events and the extra staff time it
sell best in independent and specialty stores. Strong takes to generate them.
participation in this list could turn the tide. Event kits aside, much of the initiative for these
Stores can send their bestsellers via Internet (just events is on the bookstores. Barnes & Noble is all
fill out the form at www.notachain.com) or fax ISBN’s excited about doing authorless Martha Stewart events
and sales figures for the four categories (fiction — where customers create wreaths and such from her
paperback and hardcover, nonfiction — paperback books. Borders has run “how to write personal ads”
and hardcover) to 617-492-4516. The goal is to get sales events. Publishers are increasingly willing to create
figures for the previous week by Tuesday afternoon authorless event kits if they have a reason to believe
and to post each week’s new list by Wednesday morn- that a group of stores will utilize them well. The trick
ing. Participating stores will be credited for their is to get to the publishers with these requests early
contributions, and the site will include links to con- enough to give the publishers time to develop and
tributing stores’ Web pages. For more information distribute them, which means jumping on ideas as
contact Sanj Kharbanda at 617-354-5201. soon as the new season's books are announced — or
even before.
HarperSanFrancisco is encouraging stores to
hold “Sacred Circle” events in conjunction with
their Women’s History Month title Sacred Circles: A
Little concrete information is available as we go Guide to Creating Your Own Women’s Spirituality
to press but Fine Print Distributors is reported to have Group. The premise of the book is that women both
moved from Chapter 11 bankruptcy to Chapter 7 enjoy and benefit from on-going, long-term groups,
liquidation. Fine Print filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy be they spirituality-based groups, book groups, or
Winter 1998 60
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
even those good old consciousness-raising groups. Creating in-store events, possibly in association
The theme for the Sacred Circle events is inviting with other women’s groups dedicated to eradicate
women to come to your store to launch their own violence against women, is a natural for feminist
sacred circle groups. Harper’s packet will include bookstores. Look for co-op money to help finance the
suggestions for setting up the events and creating an extra preparations and publicity. It could be a win-win
environment in which they will be successful. Call situation all around.
Margery Buchanan at 415-477-4477 to request a copy For more information contact your RH sales rep,
of the event packet. call RH publicity, or check the V-Day Web site at
Some of the most successful authorless event (www.feminist.com/vday /html).
ideas come from the authors. Eve Ensler, who has
been collecting, writing, and performing The Vagina
Monologues material for the past several years, was
inspired, during one performance in Oklahoma, to
launch V-Day — a national day to celebrate women
and end violence toward women. The first V-Day will
be Valentine's Day, 1998; the event will continue
every Valentine's Day thereafter. V-Day’s goals are:
° to launch a campaign to end violence against
women and girls,
° a one-night benefit performance of The Vagina
Monologues to raise money for the cause,
° a proclamation that every Valentine's Day be a Mary Farmer, Sarah Schulman |
day to celebrate women, and Receive Stonewall Awards
° a clarion call to re-energize the public's
commitment to end abuse. Mary Farmer, Sarah Schulman, Comelius Wilson
The V-Day initiative will include two nationally and Barry Pack are the recipients of this year’s Stone-
televised public-service announcements — featuring wall Awards. The awards recognize contributions to
celebrities — with an 800-number that will invite the gay/lesbian community by individuals in the
viewers to donate to the V-Day Fund, which will United States. Each Stonewall Award carries a prize of
provide grants to established local, national, and $25,000.
international organizations that combat violence Mary Farmer was honored for her work as a
against women. These announcements will run on lesbian feminist activist and political and cultural
MTV, CNN, and Showtime. organizer. Mary started spending time at Lammas
Other organizations are invited to use V-Day to Bookstore (DC) when it opened in 1973 and recalls, “I
raise money and consciousness in their own commu- fell in love with the world of feminist books and
nities and to benefit from the back-up of the PSAs and politics.” She bought the store a year later and ran it
other national media. until 1993, as both a bookstore and a center for
How is all of this a tie-in to The Vagina Mono- women’s cultural and political work.
logues? It’s a logical progression: If you're going to “From my vantage point as a feminist bookstore
spend years of your life collecting and uncovering owner,” she said, “I saw a tremendous need for cul-
stories about the hidden and silenced regions of the tural events reflecting women’s lives and for women’s
vagina, you're also going to hear many, many, many political networks.” Mary also co-founded Iris Films
tales of violence against women. Ensler said it was in 1974, to produce and distribute women’s films
the “almost mundane acceptance of the pervasive- through a network of local women’s production com-
ness of the violence” that terrified her and inspired panies. She was instrumental in the formation and
the vision of a day “to celebrate women and demand early development of the Feminist Bookstore Net-
an end to this violence, [to] make the issue as serious work and the national network of women’s music
and as real as it is.” distributors, as well as being one of the visionaries
61 Winter 1998
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
and organizers of the groundbreaking 1981 Women In
Print Conference for feminist booksellers, publishers,
periodicals, printers, and distributors. In 1994,
equipped with 20 years of organizational skills, Mary
became director of finance and administration at the
National Gay and Lesbian Task Force and played a
critical role in guiding the Task Force through a period
of organizational transition. director, will assume full-time duties in the position
Sarah Schulman is the prolific and award- on January 1.
winning author of seven novels, two nonfiction Domnitz, who has a three-year contract, played
books, ten plays, and hundreds of articles. Her an important role in ABA's recent $25 million settle-
themes have included lesbian and gay life in New ment with Penguin and other antitrust work and
York, homelessness, and the AIDS crisis. Sarah’s legislation. He left a legal practice to become a book-
fiction ranges from experimental writing to detective seller in 1979 and merged his store with the Harry W.
novels, and many of her works have been translated Schwartz Bookshops in Milwaukee in 1984. He was
into other languages. She will publish two new books elected to the ABA board in 1988 and served as presi-
next September: Shimmer, a novel about McCarthy- dent from June 1994 to June 1996, after having held
ism set in New York in the late 40s, and Stagestruck: the offices of treasurer and vice-president.
Theater, AIDS and Marketing. She is also writing the Domnitz will cease active participation in the
book for a musical, Red, White and Black, about the Schwartz Bookshops and his stock in the company,
McCarthy-era blacklist. which is in his wife's name, will be put into a trust. He
Sarah has received many awards, among them will also end his consultancy arrangement with Ingram.
Revson and Fulbright fellowships, the ALA Gay and On accepting the position, Domnitz stated that
Lesbian Book Award for After Dolores, and the Ferro- the future of independent bookselling is “more posi-
Grumley Award for Gay/Lesbian Fiction for Rat tive than it has been in many years,” adding that it is
Bohemia. Deeply committed to lesbian visibility and “alive and well and I intend to do anything and every-
writing, all of Schulman’s creative work includes pri- thing I can to maintain its rightful place in the
mary lesbian characters but, the author notes, bookselling and publishing world.”
“Pressure is increasing in publishing to obscure or The ABA Board also unanimously approved a
code lesbian content. My dream is that some day five-year strategic plan that focuses on advocacy; the
quality fiction with primary lesbian content will be establishment of a series of partnerships and alli-
accepted as part of American fiction and its practitio- ances; education, training, and skills development;
ners will no longer be excluded from mainstream research; systems and software development; busi-
American intellectual life.” ness support services; and the creation of new
Believing passionately that literary contribution business models. The plan was developed over the
does not exempt writers from activism, Schulman has last year by a strategic-planning committee with
served as a front-line activist in CARASA (Committee input from a strategic-planning consultant and ABA-
for Abortion Rights and Against Sterilization Abuse), member stores from across the country.
ACT-UP, and the Irish Lesbian and Gay Organization.
She was one of the founders of Lesbian Avengers and
co-founded the Lesbian and Gay Experimental Film _ Unionizing at B&N, Borders;
Festival, now known as MIX. Writers Support the Union"
Cornelius Wilson was honored for his ground-
breaking AIDS education, awareness and support Barnes & Noble employees have begun the
work in Detroit's Black gay and bisexual communi- unionizing process at an Arlington, Texas B&N, citing
ties; Barry Pack, the director of the Oregon-based lower than prevailing wages for retail clerks in their
Right to Pride, for his innovative political organizing area as the motivation. As far as FBN knows, this is
and energetic lobbying against anti-gay legislation. the first attempt to unionize a B&N store.
Winter 1998 62
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Meanwhile, on the Borders front, employees at Sidelines) will take place in the evenings. Workshops
the Evanston store, in conjunction with the UFCW, for both booksellers and publishers will be available
have asked the National Labor Relations Board to and cluster around five tracks: marketing, promotion,
schedule an election. sales, operations, and publishing.
Employees at Borders’ distribution center in Publishers that have signed on include Warner
Harrisburg lost their union election last year, but filed Books, Thomas Nelson, Word Inc., Fulcrum Publish-
this fall for a second vote. The union has won 50% of ing, Cedco, University of Tennessee Press, AAUP,
union elections at Borders to date. Augsburg Fortress, Brodart Co., Winston Derek,
Borders employees around the country have also Soundprints, Health Press, MacMurray & Beck,
been asking prominent authors to sign a petition Dover, Eastern News Distributors and the Book
requesting that Borders respect its employees’ right to Industry Study Group.
organize. Writers who have signed the petition Dorothy Holland and Donna Paz will lead a
include Grace Paley, Barbara Kingsolver, Adrienne special workshop on the easiest access to publisher
Rich, Margaret Atwood, Sandra Cisneros, Michele CO-Op programs.
Cliff, Marge Piercy, Diane di Prima, Maxine Hong For more: information, contact TLC, 2667
Kingston, Annie Dillard, and Studs Terkel. Hyacinth St., Westbury NY 11590; 516-338-6312, fax
The petition reads in part: “...In support of 516-333-0689.
employees at Borders...[we] urge Borders manage-
ment to negotiate in good faith with said workers in
order to reach a fair contract. Writers have a long Free Freight fron n S; s
history of supporting the attempts of workers to
achieve just rewards for their labors, and as Borders Effective January 1, the Simon & Schuster
employees help bring our works to the attention of Consumer Group will offer free freight as part of its
the public, we feel a special tie to their struggle.... We terms of sale for all of its divisions. S&S Trade Divi-
stand in solidarity with booksellers, musicsellers, sion President Carolyn Reidy said that S&S had
and café workers of the Borders stores.” visited 300+ bookstores and talked to 1,000 book-
sellers over the last few years and, as a result of these
talks, made a number of changes in terms and poli-
The Literary Congress cies to make it easier for booksellers to do business
Gearing Up for First Show with S&S. “We are very pleased to move to free
freight and maintain competitive terms,” she added.
Information and registration booklets for The
Literary Congress (TLC) will arrive in January. TLC
h na es e d sb e e an l ic tr tle ea t e md o ro en Tt .h Le .C . p r ae nm d i s ae lt oh ta t m “ ot rh ei s in i fn od ru mst ar ty ion,” Publishing Triangle Awards
and was launched to provide an alternative to BEA The Publishing Triangle established the hidy
that is more responsive to both bookseller and pub- Grahn Award and the Randy Shilts Award this year to
lisher needs, including a rotating show venue. recognize the enormous contribution of nonfiction
The first TLC will be held in Nashville, May 8-10. writers in presenting the gay and lesbian experience.
It is the first time a national book event has been held in Love Between Women: Early Christian Response to Female
the south since ABA was in Miami Beach five years ago. Homoerotica by Bernadette Brooten won the Judy
Workshops will be held in the mornings, the trade Grahn Award. Other nominees were The White Black-
show will be held in the afternoons. A series of bird by Honor Moore and Transgender Warriors by
dinner/discussion events organized around topics Leslie Feinberg. Thomas Mann: Eros and Literature by
(Unionization in Bookstores, Working with Mid-List Anthony Heilbut won the Randy Shilts Award. Other
Authors, Returns, Theft Prevention and Store Security, nominees for this award were Heaven's Coast by Mark
Sales Reps vs. Telemarketing, Trends in Minimum Doty, and One More River to Cross by Keith Boykin.
Order Values, Employee Benefits, and Successful Other awards given at the same time include
63 Winter 1998
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Armistead Maupin’s 1997 Bill Whitehead Award for including Intricate Passions and The Poetry of Sex:
Lifetime Achievement in Lesbian and Gay Literature. Lesbians Write the Erotic. Studs Terkel interviewed
Paula Vogel, whose play “How I Learned to Drive” is her for Coming of Age.
currently running off-Broadway, won the playwright- Valerie came out of the leftist socialist tradition
ing award from the Robert Chesley Foundation. The and was an ardent feminist and peace activist. She was
Ferro-Grumley Awards went to Sunnybrook by Persim- one of the founders of the Chicago Mattachine Society
mon Blackbridge and The Beauty of Men by Andrew in the sixties, co-founder of the Chicago Lesbian Writ-
Holleran. Other nominees were Old Love by Margaret ers’ Conference in the seventies and, more recently, did
Ehrhart, Love and Death and Other Stories by Jenifer public speaking as a lesbian Gray Panther.
Levin, The Captain's Fire by J.S. Marcus, and The Death of Tee A. Corinne is her literary executor. Valerie is
Friends by Michael Nava. survived by two sons, five grandchildren, three great-
grandchildren and a legion of admirers.
Kathy Acker
19441 997
Prolific: writer, slkatound gender provocateur,
and performance artist Kathy Acker died peacefully
on November 30, surrounded by friends, after fight-
ing a fierce and public battle against breast cancer.
She began her writing career as a self-published
novelist, hawking her work to New York bookshops,
but achieved fame — and notoriety — with the 1984
publication in Britain of her novel, Blood and Guts in
High School, a work that shocked many with its strong
language and unconventional style. Acker was
initially published in Britain by the feminist press,
Pandora, and by Picador, later in the U.S. by Grove
Valerie ieTaylor Press, briefly by Pantheon, and more recently by
Arcadia Books and Serpent's Tail. She also performed
and recorded her novel, King of the Pirates, as a CD
Valerie Tylor disd in = Ssp on Octebet 22, with the punk band, the Mekons.
1997 in Tucson. She was 84 years old. Acker supported herself during the early part
One of the most significant writers during the of her career as a dancer and stripper in New York's
fifties and sixties era of lesbian pulp novels, Valerie's sex districts, an experience that opened her eyes to
books included the series: Journey to Fulfillment, A the sex industry as lived at the street level. She
World Without Men, Stranger on Lesbos, and Return to became part of the early 1980s New York scene that
Lesbos, as well as The Girls in 3-B, Unlike Others, and included Robert Mapplethorpe — who photo-
Whisper Their Love. Whisper Their Love and Stranger on graphed her memorably — and Patti Smith. She
Lesbos were also published in hardcover in England moved easily in and out of the contemporary art and
by Neville Spearman in 1959 and 1960 respectively. music worlds, and between the U.S. and Britain, and
Titles published during the lesbian-feminist publish- was supported in part by a family trust fund. San
ing era include Love Image, Prism, Ripening, and Rice Francisco bookseller Thomas Gladysz (The
and Beans. Some of her poetry was published in Two Booksmith) described her as “always interested in
Women Revisited (Jeanette H. Foster and Valerie the plight of independent bookstores and the free
T Ha ey rl o wr) o, r kb u t a l sm o u ac ph p e o arf s h ie nr np uo met er ry o u sis as nt ti hll o lu ogn ip eu sblished. f slow h iof p i de as b. I e t thi wnk esh ee n un de rs tto hod e t he tre wlatio on- .” O
Winter 1998
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Can you imagine a magazine for lesbians
featuring articles on politics, activism, health,
family, work, parenting, youth, legal issues, arts,
media, literature, culture, film, education, sports,
fitness, and international issues?
Interviews with Elizabeth Birch, Alison Bechdel,
Debra Chasnoff, Helen Cohen, Robin Morgan,
Kate Kendell, Kerry Lobel, Sylvia Sichel, Carol
Seajay, Celeste West and Urvashi Vaid?
Essays by e Gage, Paula Ettelbrick, Chai
Feldblum, Ellen Bass, Laura Davis, and
Patricia Nell Warren?
Imagine no more. SU BSCR | BE.
1-888-633-0055 Toll free! Mention FBN and receive a free set of back issues!
circ N
A new national magazine devoted to the issues.
Les b tan ISSUES. available to booksellers through most major magazine distributors.
Volume 20 Number 5/6 65 Winter 1998
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Tenth Annual LAMBDA LITERARY AWARDS
Nominations due January 23
Nominating Procedure: Nominations are now open for this year's “LAMMYS."
You may nominate in as many or as few categories as you like, as often as yau like,
but even a single nomination means that the book will be considered. To be eligible
books must be published in 1997 and distributed in the United States.
A finalists committee will survey the nominations and determine five finalists in each
category. Finalists will be announced on February 2. A panel of judges from around
the country will select the recipients from the finalists. Recipients will be announced at
the May 29 awards banquet in Chicago.
Nominating Form
LESBIAN FICTION AUTHOR PUBLISHER
GAY MEN'S FICTION AUTHOR PUBLISHER
LESBIAN STUDIES AUTHOR PUBLISHER
GAY MEN'S STUDIES AUTHOR PUBLISHER
LESBIAN POETRY AUTHOR PUBLISHER
GAY MEN'S POETRY AUTHOR PUBLISHER
LESBIAN MYSTERY AUTHOR PUBLISHER
GAY MEN'S MYSTERY AUTHOR PUBLISHER
LESBIAN BIO/AUTOBIOGRAPY AUTHOR PUBLISHER
GAY MEN'S BIO/AUTOBIOGRAPY AUTHOR PUBLISHER
L/G ANTHOLOGIES/FICTION AUTHOR PUBLISHER
L/G ANTHOLOGIES/NON-FICTION AUTHOR PUBLISHER
L/G PHOTO/VISUAL ARTS AUTHOR PUBLISHER
L/G HUMOR AUTHOR PUBLISHER
L/G SPIRITUALITY/RELIGION AUTHOR PUBLISHER
L/G SF/FANTASY AUTHOR PUBLISHER
L/G DRAMA AUTHOR PUBLISHER
CHILDREN'S/YA BOOKS AUTHOR PUBLISHER
TRANSGENDER BOOKS AUTHOR PUBLISHER
GAY AND LESBIAN SMALL PRESS BOOK AUTHOR PUBLISHER
Mail completed nominating forms (copies welcome) to Lambda Literary Awards,
PO Box 73910, Washington DC 20056, Fax 202-462-5264; or email LBREditor@aol.com.
Winte Srpons ore d b1y L9amb9da B8ook Re po6rt &6 the Lambda Literary Foundation
Volume 20 Number 5/6
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsBy Carol Seajay will have a place to go on the holiday... They do the
same at Christmas and have done so for two decades.
Honors
Herland Sister Resources (Oklahoma City)
received the Human Rights Award from the American “While chain stores are simply about
Civil Liberties Union of Oklahoma for its work to the power of money,
eliminate the oppression of women, including provid- My Sisters’ Words is about
ing a safe meeting place for women, a bookstore, food
pantry, newsletter and a legal defense fund. The the power of community,
ACLU noted in particular Herland Legal Defense the power of commitment,
Fund’s assistance in the Fox v. Fox court case that has
the power of words,
helped pave the way for lesbian and gay parents
throughout the state. Congratulations, Herland! the power of women speaking
the truth.”
Turning the Tables
On November 14, Books Woman (Austin) hosted —Radell Roberts in My Sisters’ Words
Turning the Tables: A Feminist Literary Feast, a “far- 10th Anniversary Commemorative Book
from-ordinary Thanks-Giving celebration featuring
great food and fabulous entertainment.” Local writ-
ers, famous and not-as-famous, were invited to bring Holiday Events
a favorite dish and read to the rest of the diners. One Herland (Oklahoma City) hosted their first-ever
friend of the store loaned folding tables, another Herland Holiday Bazaar December 5-7. The event
roasted enough lamb to feed the assembled book- featured a fabulous variety of unusual and unique
lovers. Books Woman staff cooked the rest of the gifts: feminist, gay, lesbian, bi and goddess t-shirts;
food, all of which kept expenses to an absolute mini- jewelry; candles; artwork; music; and books, as well
mum. Seventy-five women dined in two seatings, as entertainment and a potluck dinner. Proceeds went
and the event raised about $1,500. “It was an older to Herland’s general operating fund to support the
crowd,” Book®Woman staffer Sue Burns noted, spring and fall Herland retreats, lending library, book-
“there was also an Ani DiFranco concert that night.” store, coffeehouses, newsletter, etc.
Keys to success? Making a lot of calls to solicit
readers and food. (Almost everyone said yes, right off This Christmas Amazon (Minneapolis) invited
the bat.) Eight women read for ten minutes at each women in St. Paul and other areas east of the river
seating, with breaks to allow people to mill around to phone, fax or email orders to the store (“anything
and socialize. we have in stock”) for delivery in St. Paul. See
The event was inspired by Charis’ “Cooking “Letters” for more info.
With Honey” event last June. Every year Amazon holds a holiday raffle for a
gift basket. The basket is stuffed with books, music,
Mama Bears (Oakland) always hosts a big calendars, jewelry, candles and other items worth
potluck-plus-turkey on Thanksgiving so that women over $200, and is on display in the store. Raffle tickets
Volume 20 Number 5/6 67 Winter 1998
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
teaching of Goddess Studies, Women’s Herstory, Crea-
Why is it important... tive Awareness, Drumming and Self-Discovery classes
to save an independent feminist bookstore? and groups. Recent store events included appearances
Well, for starters, Full Circle Books is the loca- by Riane Eisler and Layne Redmond, the MuSe’s sec-
tion where the women’s community gathers ond annual Winter Solstice and Yule Party, and their
and builds community. Secondly, independent ever-growing drumming circle that has become so large
book dealers like Full Circle have always sup- it had to be moved off-site. In February, MuSe will host
ported small independent book publishers that A Festival of Lights: A Womyn’s Winter Retreat.
often produce writings considered radical or
“fringe” in nature. Once the big retailers and The New Words bookstore community (Cam-
publishers realized there was a market, they bridge) is launching New Words Live!, a support
began printing these books, putting lots of little group similar to the Charis Circle that will raise
presses out of business. The end result is that money to support programming and other services.
written ideas and literature vital to our feminist New Words is also launching a Web site that should
movement and the lesbian community are being be up by the time you read these words. Look for it at
controlled by large corporations. When these {www.NewWordsBooks.com}.
large corporations decide that “fringe” is not
profitable, they will stop and we will be left with New Sections
neither the independent publishers nor the Brigit Books (St. Petersburg) has created a Girls’
independent stores. What is at stake here is the Development section highlighting books like Reviving
control of our own ideas as a feminist commu- Ophelia, The Body Project and Girls Speak Out that
nity. Full Circle helps preserve these small and address self-esteem, the patriarchal culture, and how
independent publishing houses, and gives to make the world safe for girls.
access to diverse ideas and literature.
—from Full Circle's newsletter. Birthdays and Celebrations
Sisterhood (L.A.) celebrated its silver anniver-
sary with a day-long Speak-Out for all authors,
are a dollar each and the proceeds, this year, went to a speakers and writers who have appeared at Sister-
local nonprofit that provides services for homeless hood over the last 25 years. An afternoon
and low-income women recovering from addiction — program /fundraiser, titled Still Here, featured
and their families. Gloria Steinem, bell hooks, Sheila James Kuehl
Book groups that meet at the store were also (Speaker pro Tempore of the California Assembly),
invited either to make a holiday donation to Congresswoman Maxine Waters, comedienne Emily
Amazon's Women Leading Through Reading groups Levine, poets Eliose Klein Healey and Michelle
or to adopt one of Amazon's early-literacy book Serros, and music by Ladies Choice String Quartet.
groups. The donations are used to defray the cost of A buffet luncheon was served, donations for the
books and transportation so that low-income women event were $100. The invitations read, “All dona-
can participate in Amazon's literacy programs with- tions will benefit Sisterhood Bookstore. Although
out facing financial barriers. Sisterhood is not legally structured as a nonprofit
S HDA o rr esg ea mni bz la et si o n t, h i si n k ii nts d o op fe r a inti so tn its u tt ioh ne . b Io to k iss t o ar e m c islo sis oe nly -
driven business, devoted to providing access to
feminist and progressive content in literature and
Nonprofits & Web Sites music in a women-friendly environment. Changes
The MuSe Lodge (Newport Beach CA), a new in the publishing industry and the proliferation of
feminist bookstore focused on feminist spirituality, corporate-owned bookstores has made it nearly
creativity, drumming — and books — has just filed for impossible for Sisterhood to survive. Your donation
nonprofit status. Their goals include expanding their See Bookstore News, page 73.
Winter 1998 68
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Compiled by Carol Seajay
Feminist Publishing is a new column
that offers a round-up of news, tidbits, and |
trivia from feminist publishers and periodicals,
and occasionally takes an in-depth look at a
particular issue. Publishers, please send us
your news for this column and call if there's a
topic you'd like to address. —CS
Heard It At the WNBA
I had the good fortune to hear Nora
Rawlinson (Editor in Chief, Publishers
Weekly) address the San Francisco chapter
of the Women’s National Book Associa-
tion on the occasion of WNBA’s 20th
anniversary. Most New York publishers,
she said, being publicly held corporations
with a strong mandate to make the bottom
line look good at the end of the quarter,
will be cutting back the number of titles they publish Rising Tide in Tucson
over the coming years. That’s the bad news. The good Rising Tide has arrived in Tucson.
news is that this opens more room for independent “Moving everything all at once — personal,
publishers and university presses and that corporate business [publishing company and mail-order
publishers will, increasingly, be turning to inde- bookstore], banking, selling the house, managing all
pendent presses to buy “regional” titles with proven the details of everything — was hair-raising,” Alice
track records to repackage and publish. She cited, as Frier said two days after they were set up enough to
examples, Calyx’ sale of Into the Forest to Bantam for begin shipping books again, adding, “It took three
$350,000 and the sale of a Chronicle Books title under guys 13 hours just to pack everything into the trucks
similar circumstances. in Long Island. Then we drove all the way to Tucson
Interesting, hopeful perhaps, but certainly a new in six days to get there before the trucks to supervise
approach to financing independent press publishing the unloading and make sure that everything was
— after-the-fact rights sales to big publishers for a delivered to the appropriate location.... [Home and
cash influx. What the mega-publishers get out of this, office will no longer be upstairs and downstairs
of course, is that someone else takes the risk and test from one another.] It was quite a reminder of what a
drives the books first... huge country this is!”
69 Winter 1998
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
books, audio books, videos and CDs. For the first nine
years, Barbara Grier and Donna J. McBride ran the
press without taking any salary. In 1982, Barbara quit
her day job to become Naiad’s first paid employee.
Naiad now boasts a full-time staff of eight, two
part-timers, the equivalent of six full-time suppliers,
and over 100 authors earning royalties from their
work. Asked about future plans, Barbara said, “No one
has come close to matching what we do.... I suspect we
will keep on doing what we do best, publishing books
that make lesbians feel proud of their lives, proud of
their loves. I can’t think of a richer legacy.”
Calyx Sells Archives for $10,000
Calyx has found a home for its archives where
they will be cherished — to the tune of $10,000. The
University of Oregon Library System, which is collect-
ing archives of publishing enterprises in Oregon,
already held archives for the first few years of Calyx’s
existence. This collection, which covers the years 1980
to 1990, includes correspondence with authors pub-
lished by Calyx Books and Calyx Journal as well as
original manuscripts and layouts. Many authors first
published by Calyx have gone on to receive national
and international acclaim and awards. The 40 boxes,
“We are eternally grateful to the lesbian commu- which comprise the archives, have been stored in a
nity on Long Island and in Arizona for all the support facility that narrowly escaped flooding in the 1996
they extended us,” Lee added. “Without their love floods. Calyx’s Board of Directors and staff are
and support, we would never have survived this delighted to have found a safe home for Calyx’s valu-
move.” able and unique archives.
Rising Tide and Womankind will be hiring staff The recent Calyx newsletter reports that Calyx’s
with experience in bookselling and publishing to work 20/20 Vision fundraising campaign was “a smashing
in their new offices in “the Southwest lesbian/gay success.” During 1996 Calyx raised $30,000 from
Mecca” as well as freelance editors and graphic art individual supporters, including $6,000 from the
designers. If interested, call Lee at 520-888-1140. phone-a-thon. (See “Some Nuts and Bolts for
Before moving, they also prepared a new catalog Fundraising” in FBN Vol. 19 #6.)
for Womankind and mailings that could be dropped
as soon as they were able to ship books again. One HUES to New Moon
staff person remained in New York to answer phones, New Moon Publishing has entered into an agree-
send out catalogs, and explain the hiatus to callers. ment to acquire and, eventually, to publish the
The businesses were “down” from October 20 to multiculturally focused magazine, HUES. HUES,
November 26. (See “Thataway” for Rising Tide’s new which stands for “Hear Us Emerging Sisters” is a
address/phone/fax.) magazine for young women “of all cultures, shapes
and lifestyles” that takes multiculturalism — and femi-
Naiad Press Celebrates 25th Anniversary nism — as the norm. Typical of HUES’ approach to
Naiad Press celebrates its 25th anniversary on issues that challenged their elders is their “Ask the
January 1, 1998, with the launch of its new Web site Love Doctress” column, which features two advisors
twww.NaiadPress.com) and a total publication of 400 — one for “girls who like boys” and the other for “girls
70
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
who like girls” — all on the same page because, of point-of-sale displays and header cards. The book
course, everyone wants to know what advice everyone also features a discount coupon worth up to $200.
else is getting. Every feature is strong, well-designed, People who would buy the book anyway get a bonus
insightful and addresses issues of importance to young and, hopefully, the book will also be sought out by
women: what to think about before you get a tattoo, people who would buy it for the coupons and the
what to wear when you're premenstrual (answer: out- contest. In keeping with Papier Mache’s commitment
rageous red costumes that reflect your emotions), how to make the promotion effortless for booksellers, the
to love one’s own body (as in both liking it and mas- program requires participants to mail entry forms,
turbating), college culture shock, using credit cards, rather than expecting the retailers to collect and for-
discussion circles (most recently on feminism, woman- ward them. Priced at $9.95, the book is designed to
ism, and O.J.), good humor on what an older be the perfect impulse buy.
generation would call “fat oppression” and the inter- Papier Mache titles are available through all the
section of sexual objectification and racism. Heavy standard wholesalers, but Papier Mache is now doing
issues? You bet! And so well wrapped that the package its own distribution, selling to wholesalers and chains
is irresistible to women from 15 to 50. through Dan Haldeman & Associates, and telemar-
“We want to offer a fresh magazine to readers keting the top 1,200 stores in the country four times a
who've outgrown New Moon,” New Moon's Nancy year. Papier Mache, which had previously been dis-
Gruver explained. “HUES brings the spirit of New tributed by LPC, projects that hiring their own reps
Moon to an older audience. Like New Moon, HUES is and doing telemarketing in-house will save
peer-written and edited.” $150,000-$200,000 per year.
Founded in 1992 by twin sisters Ophira and Tali
Edut, and their “spiritual triplet” Dyann Logwood,
HUES grew from a local zine into a full-scale, full-color
p Au dbl vic ia st oio rn y d is Bt ori ab ru dte d i nth cr lo uu dgh eo su t G t lh oe r iw ao r l Sd t. e iH nU eE mS’ and Attic Best
author /activist Rebecca Walker. The HUES Collective, 44 East Essex Street, Dublin 2, Ireland. Telephone: (01) 716367. Fax: (01) 797224.
an Ann Arbor, Michigan-based group of multiethnic
young women (“and a few good men”) meets regularly Attic Sold to CUP
to plan, produce, and promote the magazine. Róisín Conroy, Attic Press co-founder and pub-
HUES will continue to be edited in Ann Arbor; lisher writes that, with her blessing, Attic has been
marketing and subscriptions will move to Duluth in acquired by Cork University Press (CUP): “As a natu-
April. In early 1998, founding publisher Tali Edut will ral response to the huge changes Ireland has
establish a second branch of the HUES Collective in experienced, I feel it is time for Attic Press to pass the
New York City. New Moon Publishing (New Moon: The pen to a new and younger generation of women at
Magazine for Girls and Their Dreams and New Moon Cork University Press and elsewhere, who are
Network: For Adults Who Care About Girls) will add two emerging with fresh ideas and approaches. These are
full-time staff people to handle the additional work- the minds that now need to demand the further
load from this expansion. changes necessary for women into the next century.”
CUP publisher Sara Wilbourne added, “As a young
Papier Mache: Marketing & Distribution woman in publishing in England, I was very con-
Papier Mache has come up with a brilliant new scious of Attic’s international profile. Its impact was
marketing scheme: They are co-sponsoring a sweep- way beyond its size and country borders. Attic
stakes with Continental Airlines with the same title created waves and precedents.” CUP plans to pub-
as Papier Mache’s new book, There's No Place Like lish Attic’s forthcoming Biography of Hanna Sheehy
Home for the Holidays. The prize is four free round-trip Skiffington by Dr. Margaret Ward under the Attic
tickets on Continental Airlines. Entry forms are Press imprint in December.
bound into the back of the book, stickers on the front Attic Press co-founder Mary Paul Keane wrote,
of the book draw attention to the contest as do the “Attic Press has played an essential part in the change
71 Winter 1998
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
in attitudes toward women and their rights which Circles Goes National
have taken place in Ireland. Attic became the catalyst Published as a free magazine in Colorado for
for mainstream publishing in Ireland to take on board the last year, publisher Kit McChesney has decided
women authors and women’s issues.” to take Circles to a national audience beginning with
Róisín also noted that the decline in sales to the U.S. the February issue. Editorial focus will continue to
market, the collapse of Inland and Attic’s subsequent be on issues of interest to lesbians, featuring articles
loss of both money and stock, and the failure of any on politics and activism, culture, arts, literature,
similar distribution system to emerge, along with high legal issues, workplace and business issues, parent-
discounts, high freight costs, and difficult credit terms, ing, family, youth, health, fitness, sports, travel, and
had all contributed to Attic’s financial struggle. humor. Circles will feature national and regional
Attic thus far has published over 200 titles. The advertising, be audited by the Audit Bureau of
press was formally launched in 1984 with The Best of Circulations, and run a parallel Web site (www.circles
Nell (journalist Nell McCafferty), and grew out of an magazine.com).
employment and job-training scheme for women. Circles has an impressive track record to date: one
Other titles included Smashing Times: A History of the 72-page and five 48-page issues, and articles featur-
Irish Suffrage Movement, Personally Speaking (the first ing interviews with NCLR executive director Kate
. Irish women’s studies book), the shocking Lyn: A Story Kendell, NGLTF current and previous executive
of Prostitution, the polemical and provocative LIP directors Kerry Lobel and Urvashi Vaid, as well as
pamphlet series edited by Aibhe Smyth, the Bright Robin Morgan, Alison Bechdel, Jill Posener, Debra
Sparks series for teenagers, and the international Chasnoff and Helen Cohen (It’s Elementary: Talking
Feminist Fairytales collections, as well as fiction by About Gay Issues in School), Patricia Nell Warren,
Éilís Ní Dhuibhne, Leland Bardwell, Evelyn Conlon, Donna Minkowitz, and FBN’s Carol Seajay. Circles has
and Eithne Strong. a fierce commitment to feminist bookstores and pub-
Attic’s archives and the archives of the closely lishing. Circles, 825 S. Broadway Ave., Suite 40,
associated Irish Feminist Information (IFI) have gone Boulder CO 80303; 303-499-2636, fax 303-499-2615;
to the Boole Library, University College Cork. IFI, (circles@indra.com).
founded in 1978 by Róisín Conroy and Mary Doran,
published the first Irishwomen’s Calendar: An End and New Presses
a Beginning and then the annual Irish Women’s Diary This section will feature “new” feminist/womanist
and Guidebook. IFI went on to run two highly success- presses that have launched recently that might not yet be
ful Women in Community Publishing courses, and it recognized as feminist presses.
was within this context that Attic Press emerged to Frustrated that certain things needed to be pub-
become a driving force in feminist, social, political, lished but weren’t, Caitlin Gannon took matters into
and historical publishing, and a voice that was her own hands and started Javelina Press. Javelina’s
respected in Ireland and internationally. In connec- first book, Southwestern Women: New Voices, a collec-
tion with the deposit of the archives, Mary Robinson, tion of will-be-known writers, was published in
the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, 1995, has sold 1,200 copies and will soon go back to
acknowledged Róisín Conroy’s “very important con- press. Javelina’s second book, The Emperor Has a
tribution to women’s studies over the past twenty Body, will be published this Spring. Javelina titles
years,” adding her particular pleasure that the papers are available through wholesalers (Ingram and BP)
and records of Attic Press will be available to and direct from the publisher. Address: PO Box
researchers in the future. 42131, Tucson AZ 85733; 520-326-1286, (caitlin@
Attic’s titles will continue to be sold through azstartnet.com).
CUP; international distribution arrangements will re- Note to gringas and non-desert dwellers: The “j”
main in place (ISBS in the US, Central Books in the sounds like an “h” to us. A javelina is a small desert
UK, Gill and Macmillan in Ireland; Brigette Aster creature — a long-term survivor that is both maternal
remains as European rights agent). See “Thataway” and territorial, and is fierce in defense of her children:
for Attic’s new address. a perfect name for a feminist press.
Winter 1998 72
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
FEMSPEC: A New Journal discussion in the SF Area Task Force of the Popular
Batya Weinbaum and Robin Reid are launching a Culture/ American Culture Association about the non-
new, interdisciplinary journal, FemSpec, dedicated to feminist nature of most sf journals and the lack of
critical and creative works in the realms of science interest in non-realistic writing in women’s journals of
fiction, fantasy, magical realism, and other supernatural criticism. If you want to help fill this void as a contribu-
genres. They're interested in presenting a variety of tor, by serving as a reader, or by being on the advisory
feminist approaches, and aim to be inclusive of ethnic or editorial board, please contact (Robin-Reid@
and cultural diversity, utilizing internationalist and tamu-commerce-edu) or (batyawein@aol.com) or write
interdisciplinary perspectives. FemSpec grew out of a to Batya at PO Box 679, East Montpelier VT 05651. O
Bookstore News, continued from page 68. Ellen wrote in the introduction. “Then it became clear
helps to support Sisterhood’s mission and ensure that that the submissions needed to be keyed-in.... So I
Sisterhood Bookstore remains ‘still here.” began entering them on the computer. It became a
One of the highlights of FBN staffers Danielle therapy session of the highest sort for me. I laughed,
Bauter and Jenn Tust'’s recent trip to Los Angeles was I cried, I had to stop typing quite a few times. While I
stopping in at Sisterhood and seeing Adele Wallace move through the world believing that this store
back on her feet and working in the store! Go Adele! would not exist without all of us, reading these
submissions has helped me to see that I (me — Mary
Full Circle (Albuquerque) is using its 24th birth- Ellen Kavanaugh) have indeed created something
day party to launch “FUNdrive,” part of a larger quite wonderful — something that allows all of us to
project to raise money to buy the work together to create and continue
bookstore from its long-term owners community. My thanks to each of you
and make it a community-owned who took the time to put your words
bookstore. The party featured a 10% to paper. In committing this radical
discount on everything, 25% off cal- act, you have given me a gift beyond
endars, and a chance to meet the task those words. My heart and soul are
force members who are developing lighter for all of this.”
the Full Circle Community Founda- It was clearly a lot of work — but
tion. See sidebar for Full Circle’s I'd wish such a collection on every
statement on the importance of femi- bookseller in this country...
nist bookstores.
Events
And are these birthday extrava- Charis (Atlanta) sold 150+ copies
ganzas worth all the effort? of Daughters of the Moon at their Indigo
“Absolutely,” says Mary Ellen Girls event and collected names of
Kavanaugh of My Sisters’ Words’ women young and old who would
(Syracuse) three-day celebration and like a mentor or to be mentored.
10th Anniversary Commemorative Book. “It was the (Match-making to be done post-holidays.) See also
single most positive reflection of the effect of my work their event photo in PW’s 12/8/97 issue.
and of what the store is to this community.... Lovely
things have come out of it and those insights energize So Who Needs Women’s Bookstores?
my work every day.” FBN just received a copy of the Lesbians of color, that’s for sure: When Lisa Moore
commemorative book — 80 pages of history and set out to document Black women’s coming-out expe-
memories, reflections, blessings, good wishes, thank- riences (does your mama know?) she sent out a call for
you's — and ads to help pay for it. submissions and received only two. Then she sent
“At first, I was not going to read any of the fliers to women’s bookstores...and added 39 wonder-
submissions until the book was published,” Mary ful pieces to her collection. —from Girlfriends O
73 Winter 1998
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
BNS5
By Carol Seajay and Jenn Tust specific knowledge of publishers’ policies and ability
to resolve problems quickly, interest in helping use
The National Women’s Music Festival is moving! available resources to help stores successfully display
The Bloomington auditorium is being renovated, so and sell more books, follow-through on promises,
‚this year the Festival will be held June 25—28 at Ball empathy for the demands on booksellers’ time, and
State University in Muncie, Indiana, one hour north- commitment to achieving mutually beneficial results.
east of Indianapolis. NWMPF'’s mailing address stays Send to PW Rep of the Year Award, c/o Paz & Asso-
the same: PO Box 1427, Indianapolis IN 46205. Phone ciates, 2106 Twentieth Ave. S., Nashville TN 37212; fax
317-927-9355, email (wia@indy.net), Web site 615-298-9864, email (dpaz@pazbookbiz.com).
(www.a1.com/wia).
aara
WisCon22: The Gathering of the Feminist
Science Fiction Community will be held May 22—25,
Memorial Weekend, in Madison, Wisconsin. Guests Independent Publisher is seeking entries for the
of Honor are Sheri S. Tepper, Ellen Kushner, and Delia Second Annual Small Press Book Awards, which
Sherman. The Tiptree award will be presented at honor the year’s best independently published titles.
ReaderCon, July 10-12, but plenty of Tiptree-related Deadline: March 31. The awards will be presented at
events are planned for WisCon22. To register, or for BookExpo on May 29. For guidelines, or to send in
more information: SF3, Box 1624, Madison WI 53701; nominations: Independent Publisher, 121 E. Front
608-233-8850, email (wiscon.concom@lists.best.com), Street, Fourth Floor, Traverse City MI 49684; 616-933-
Web (www.sf3.org/wiscon). 0445, fax 616-933-0448, Web (www.smallpresss.com).
Nominations for the 1998 Gregory Kolovakos Advisory and editorial board members and
Award are due now. This award honors an American manuscripts are being sought for Femspec: A New
literary translator, editor, or critic whose work, in Journal, which is dedicated to critical and creative
meeting the challenge of cultural difference, extends works in SF, fantasy, magical realism, and other
Kolovakos’ commitment to the richness of Hispanic super-natural genres. For more information contact:
literature and to expanding its English-language audi- Batya Weinbaum (batyawein@aol.com) or (Robin
ence. Work from all languages will be considered. Reid@tamu-commerce -edu).
$2,000 prize. Deadline: January 15. Send to: The
Gregory Kolovakos Award, PEN American Center, The Border Book Festival takes place each year in
568 Broadway, New York NY 10012. Las Cruces, New Mexico. This year’s theme is “Stories
of War, Stories of Peace/Cuentos de la Guerra, de la
Publishers Weekly seeks nominations for its Rep of Paz.” It will run March 20—22. The festival is collabo-
the Year Award. The Award is based on: general rating with the Women’s Studies Program at NMSU
knowledge of books and the publishing industry, See Announcements, page 79.
Winter 1998 74
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
ORLANDO
|9640 WHYTE AVENUE H
By Jacqueline Dumas BOOKS EoMonTon AB TLE 2A7
Orlando Books/Edmonton AB, Canada (4093) 432-7633
My recent involvement in a support group for Books for lesbian and gay youth
lesbian and gay youth has led me to ponder the isola- and their friends.
tion that many of these children experience. It’s hard
enough for a heterosexual teenager to develop a sense
of self-worth, but gay students encounter an ongoing and said the problem was that the newspaper goes out
barrage of negative and demeaning images from to all students and their parents. I still didn’t under-
media, other students, and even teachers — images stand what the problem was. It’s school policy, he
which are based on stereotypes of what homosexuality said. The ad is not inclusive — it does not include
is and means. Everyone is affected. Heterosexual stu- heterosexual students. I asked him to send me a letter
dents have gay parents, gay siblings, and gay teachers, outlining this policy, but he said that only the school
most of whom are invisible in the system. School librar- administration could do so. He offered to run the ad
ies often carry homophobic magazines like Alberta for free if I deleted the offending phrase. What is this
Report, but few, if any, books for gays, let alone main- teacher teaching his students? I wondered.
stream publications like The Advocate. History, social The next day I spoke with the principal, who
studies classes, English, sex education — all assume reiterated that the ad would not be run because of
heterosexuality. When youth from racial minorities school policy. He also refused to outline in a letter
encounter racism, they can usually go home and what this policy is, and said it was actually his
receive support. But home can be the least safe place “personal decision” not to run the ad.
for gay youth, and a disproportionate number of them What if I had advertised “Books for children”,
drop out of school and end up on the street. Suicide is thereby excluding adults, or “Religious books for all
the leading cause of death for sexual minority youth — faiths”, thereby excluding nonreligious people, or
30% of completed teenage suicides are by gay youth. “Princess Di books”, thereby excluding most of the
So when students from Strathcona Composite people that I know? More and more, the word “equal-
High School approached me and asked if I would ity” is being used when “sameness” is what is meant.
place an ad in their newspaper, I obliged with this “Sameness” usually means white, heterosexual, mid-
facing ad, wishing to advise youth that our store is a dle class, and often male. Doesn't the public school
gay positive space where they can get information and system have a mandate to accept diversity and to
books that reflect a positive image. make the hallways safe for all its students?
A few days later, the editor of the paper called to It seemed somehow fitting that as I approached
say that there was a problem with the ad. Was it the the school to retrieve my ad, the word Fag was
wrong size? No, she said, the problem was the line scratched out in the door at eye level. A homophobic
about gay youth. She offered to run the ad with the environment is hurtful to all, no matter what the
line deleted. Absolutely not, I said. A short time later, individual sexual orientation or family makeup.
the faculty advisor to the student newspaper called —Excerpted from Orlando Books newsletter O
75 Winter 1998
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
By Jenn Tust Awards
Ruth Gundle and Judith Barrington were
Rights Sold awarded the Stuart H. Holbrook Award for out-
Calyx sold its archives to the University of Oregon standing contributions to the literary community
for $10,000 and a party. Calyx also sold Second Sight by for their work on behalf of women writers (Flight of
Rickey Gard Diamond to HarperCollins for five the Mind Writing Workshops for Women; Soap-
figures. Harper will reissue it in cloth in 1998 and Calyx stone, a Writing Retreat for Women; and The Eighth
.retains movie and foreign rights. Mountain Press).
Steve Stabler (Motion Picture Corp. of America) Grace Paley and Anne Michaels won Lannan
has optioned the film rights to Nicole Conn’s Angel Foundation Literary Awards, which recognize a body
Wings (Simon & Schuster). The deal was brokered by of work, rather than a single book. The Awards carry
Matthew Snyder, Todd Stern, and Jillian Manus. a $75,000 purse.
Canada Council's Governor General's Literary
Back to Press Awards carry a $10,000 prize. The 1997 winners
Women and Aging (Calyx) went back to press for include, fiction: Jane Urquhart for The Underpainter
101,000 copies in print. (McClelland & Stewart); poetry: Dionne Brand for
New Victoria's Barbie Unbound has gone back for Land to Light On (McClelland & Stewart); nonfiction:
a third printing for a total of 20,000 copies in print. Rachel Manley for Drumblair — Memories of a Jamaican
Alyson’s Out of the Closet and Nothing to Wear by Childhood (Alfred A. Knopf Canada); and translation:
Leslea Newman went back for a third printing bring- Howard Scott for The Euguelion (Alter Ego Editions),
ing its total to 8,000. Early Embraces by Lindsay Elder the English version of L'Euguelionne by Louky
made its fourth trip to press. Bersianik (Editions La Presse).
Han Nolan won the National Book Award for
Rename Young People’s Literature for Dancing on the Edge
“Blue Streak” is the new name for Beacon Press’ (Harcourt Brace). Hers was the only NBA awarded to
excellent Black Women Writers series — under its new a woman this year.
name and new direction the series will include Carolyn Ferrell won the John C. Zacharis First
“women writers of all colors.” Book Award for Don’t Erase Me (Houghton Mifflin),
which features eight first-person stories portraying
W the lives of poor Black girls. The Award honors a best
= debut book, and carries a $1,500 prize.
Deals SageWoman is a finalist for Utne Reader's Ninth
Rob Weisbach, who edited Ellen DeGeneres’ Annual Alternative Press Awards for Spiritual Cover-
book at Bantam, has acquired a book from Betty age. Other finalists in the new category include
DeGeneres for his Morrow imprint. Ellen’s mom will Sojourner, and Lilith. Other feminist titles that have
write about coming to terms with her child’s homo- been nominated include Daughters for Best New Title,
sexuality and her new role as a spokesperson for the Bust and Ms. for Writing Excellence, Bust for Cultural
Human Rights Campaign. The advance for this book Coverage, On The Issues for Political and Social Issues,
is rumored to be $150,000. and Hip Mama for Lifestyle Coverage. O
Winter 1998 76
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
By Carol Seajay and Jenn Tust
Everywomans/Victoria Closes
New Store
On November 22, Victoria women said
The Bookstore Androgyny, the new lesbian and good-bye to a shop that is as much the heart of a
gay book and gift store in Youngstown, Ohio, held a female network as it was a place to buy books.
pre-opening sale before Christmas and is scheduled to After more than 22 years, Everywomans Books,
open early this year. Stacy L. Meadows, a carpenter by the last remaining volunteer-run feminist book-
trade and owner of several rental properties, is the store collective in Canada and probably North
primary owner, and she will be backed by Martie Troy, America, closed its doors for the last time.
a t h ef iu rl l - ft rim iene d s t Bu id lle n Bt o ia ln a,d am re en tt ia rl e d h -se ta elt eh l mw io lr l k wer o, r ka en rd , who close bEv ute r y go ivn ee n w Ea vs e rs yad wd oe mne ad n s ’ b y tr ot uh be l e dd e c fi is nio an n c it ao l
w anill d w o Cr lk e v i en l a t nh de , st o tr he. e A 2n , 5h 0o 0ur - s qfr uo am r e -b fot oh o tP i t Bts ob our kg sh tore bsi ut ru da et nio en d f vo or l u nth tee e r l a s ct o l lt ew cto iv ey , e a tr hs e a dn ed c i sa in o n o v we ar s-
Androgyny is located above a lesbian bar and next- regretfully made. A lot of customers of the store,
door to a men’s club. The Bookstore Androgyny, 10 E. both young and older, are in shock. One customer
L 33a 0 -C 7l 8e 8d -e 2 7 # 302 ., Youngstown OH 44507; 330-788-2727, fax s ha ai sd bE ev ee nr y aw lio vm e.ans has been here as long as she
Everywomans Books will be able to close
Æ a with integrity and pay off its current debts and
N liabilities due to a hugely successful fund-raising
Not So New, But... a ru iac ’t si o fn e m h ie nld is t /O lc et so bb iae nr c2 o8 m. mM uan ny it y t h fa on rk s t ht eo i r Victo-
On November 14, Crone’s Cupboard celebrated generous contributions.
its second year as a feminist and lesbian book and gift The last public event was a book launch and
store in Boise, Idaho. Jeanine F. Parker, the owner of farewell party November 28, with Press Gang
this 1,000-square-foot shop located on a main street, Publishers’ authors Persimmon Blackbridge,
wants to buy the building (her shop is an add-on to a Sheila Norgate and Sheila Baxter reading from
home) and open a women’s bed and breakfast. The their latest works.
store and products focus on female empowerment Jahnet Hewsick
and specialize in spirituality, and art by local artists, on behalf of Everywomans Books
including Parker ’s own metal sculptures, is displayed.
Crone’s Cupboard, 3013 Overland Road, Boise ID
83705; 208-333-0831. store (www.daremore.com) and Robyn's Bookmark
(www.robynbooks.com), both citing a lack of
Closed Internet sales and/or lack of profits as the reason.
Two Internet “bookstores” specializing in Daremore will continue to sell self-protection items,
women’s books have closed, The Daremore Book- goddess tattoos, and t-shirts. Both specialized in a
Volume 20 Number 5/6 Winter 1998
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
few, hand-picked titles promoted on their Web sites resources and inspiration for the country’s growing
rather than extensive inventories. Both existed only and changing spiritual consciousness, and its lists
as Web sites, rather than being backed up by a fully have included many feminist and pagan-based titles.
inventoried store with a wide range of books of inter- Twelve of its twenty bestselling titles are by women.
est to women in stock and ready-to-ship. The bestseller list leads with Melody Beattie’s
People Like Us, the Chicago gay/lesbian store, Co-Dependent No More and Anne Wilson Schaef’s
has closed its doors for the time being. In effort to Meditations for Women Who Do Too Much, both of which
expand the store, owner Carrie Barnett moved it to a outsold books by Billy Graham and Michael Jordan.
larger building, which she had purchased in a joint Other titles on the list include Each Day A New Begin-
venture with several other women. The new location ning (in this case Anonymous, the editor, was a
was located a couple blocks off the main drag of woman), The Chalice and the Blade, The Woman's
Chicago's “Boy-Town” gay district and not enough Comfort Book, and Spiral Dance.
customers were willing to go those extra blocks, IEE
perhaps proving the truism that feminist/lesbian NI
stores tend to be destination stores, but stores ori-
. pe an tt he .d ” Pto ew opa lr ed L g ikay e Um sa l e h a dcu s at lo sm o e sr us f fn ee re ed d t fo r o b me t“ hon e the Books Get Around
initial cash-flow problems common to bookstores Naiad’s Second Fiddle by Kate Calloway and For-
that purchase buildings, and so was never able to bidden Fires by Margaret C. Anderson have been
implement its much-touted cyber-cafe. translated into German and published by Frauenof-
fensive.
Moved The Island of Floating Women, originally published
Sisterspace in DC has moved to a bigger by the now defunct Clothespin Fever Press in 1993,
store...only 11⁄2 blocks down on U St. The new space (1-878533-10-X), is now available from the author
has 2,300 square feet and is located at street level. The Batya Weinbaum. $10 retail cover; $6 wholesale to
new street number is 1515. The zip code, phone, and bookstores. Minimum order, three. Plus $3 mailing for
fax numbers remain the same. 5 or fewer copies. Batya Weinbaum, PO Box 69, East
Rising Tide Press and Womankind Books have Montpelier VT 05651; (Batyawein@aol.com).
moved to Tucson! The new address for both the pub- Kuumba (see FBN 20 #4 pg. 89), is available from
lishing company and the mail-order bookstore is 3831 Koen, Bookazine, and Ubiquity, along with BLK
N. Oracle Rd., Tucson AZ 85705. Phone: 520-888-1140. Publishing's other magazines: BLK, Black Lace, and
Fax: 520-888-1123. Email address stays the same: Blackfire.
(RTPress@aol.com). Rising Tide also announces a new
discount policy: 50% on 10+ books (mixed titles), Newly Acquired
non-returnable. They welcome and encourage (and Lambda Literary Foundation has acquired the
actively solicit) direct orders! James White Review. Based in Minneapolis, the James
Attic’s new address is Attic Press, c/o Cork White Review is the oldest and largest gay men’s liter-
University Press, Crawford Business Park, Crosses ary quarterly. Publisher Phil Wilkie, who began the
Green, Cork, Ireland. Tel: (+353 1) 021-902-980; fax quarterly in 1983, will continue to oversee the maga-
(+351 1) 021-315-329; email (s.wilbourne@ucc.ie). zine until July. LLF plans to publish its first issue of
Putumayo World Music has moved. Its new the JWR in October. The JWR publishes quarterly;
address is 324 Lafayette Street, Seventh Floor, New subscriptions are $14.
York NY 10012; 212-625-1400.
Wholesalers Close
Anniversaries Seattle-based Moving Books closed its doors in
HarperSanFrancisco, a division of Harper- September. The company is liquidating rather than
Collins, celebrated 20 years of San Francisco-based declaring bankruptcy as estimated liabilities and
publishing. HarperSF’s mission is to provide assets are nearly balanced. Claims were to have been
Winter 1998 78
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
filed by December 5. For further information write or get its books distributed in the U.S. says more about
fax Jay Schupack at Moving Books or the attorney the need for independent presses and distributors
handling the liquidation and distribution of assets to than any corporate critique I’ve read anywhere.
creditors, Craig S. Sternberg, Sternberg Thomson —CS.
Okrent & Scher, 3210 Columbia Center, 701 Fifth Words Distributing Co., the distribution arm of
Avenue, Seattle WA 98104; fax 206-386-5488. Bookpeople, has added Spinsters Ink and Whiteaker
Press to its list. Whiteaker Press’ Stealing Fire was in
our Catalog last year.
Electronic News
Wholesalers/Distributors Add Publishers Woman's Place’s (Calgary) new email address is
'Consortium has added three new publishers to (Womansplbk@aol.com).
its list: Zoland Books, Soft Skull Press, and, oddly Bluestocking Books’ Web site has moved. Check
enough, HarperCollins Publishers Australia. That it out at: (www.bluestocking.com), and its email
HarperCollins /Australia, a part of one of the address is (publisher@bluestocking.com).
world’s largest and most far-reaching publishing P Nariad ePresss iss up. ocn tohe Wmeb: (ww)w..N aiad o
empires, needs an independent press distributor to
Announcements, continued from page 74. from books bought from wholesalers at 40% than from
Ana Castillo. Barbara Kingsolver and Keith Wilson books bought from publishers at 46%. Moreover, by
will be awarded the Premio Fronterizo. Highlights of buying in small quantities, Schwartz sold enough
the program include the Emerging Voices series and copies early enough to pay the wholesaler’s invoices
an associated writers workshop for women. (See before they were due... The mistake of striving for
“Writing Wanted” for details). For information about higher discounts results in lower margins and in much
exhibiting or other parts of the program, contact Anne higher returns of unsold books. A return rate of 20%,
Marie Mackler, Border Book Festival, 422 N. for example, costs the bookseller the equivalent of ten
Alameda, Las Cruces NM 88005; 505-524-1499. percent profit on the store’s total sales.”
Not available in bookstores (or from any of the
April is National Poetry Month and the Academy wholesalers whose use is advocated by Mr. Shatzkin).
of American Poets urges bookstores to participate in $10/copy + $3 s&h from The Butterick Company, PO
the celebration by offering special readings, contests, Box 1752, Altoona PA 16603.
discounts, and store and window displays. The Acad-
emy reports that stores that were actively involved in Indexes are now available for the long-running
last year’s campaign increased poetry sales by 25-30% feminist newspaper, New Directions for Women. The
during the promotion. indexes cross-reference the complete contents of
the paper and provide a running account of feminist
actions, philosophies and events, issue by issue, year
by year as reported in the paper’s pages and provide
invaluable aid to historians and researchers. The first
Which is more cost effective: ordering from index (Volumes 1 through 10, 1973 to 1981) costs $10
wholesalers at 40% or ordering direct at higher dis- plus $3 s&h; the second index (Volumes 11 through 22,
counts? Leonard Shatzkin argues that the former is 1982 to 1993) is $20 plus $5 s&h. Both indexes ordered
better in The Mathematics of Bookselling, a 60-page together are $25 plus $5 s&h. The indexes are distrib-
monograph published by Sun River Press, if orders are uted by the Women’s Institute for Freedom of the
placed as frequently as daily and only for immediate Press, 3306 Ross Place NW, Washington DC 20008.
needs. “As ‘real life’ proof of this contention, Shatzkin Back issues of New Directions for Women are also avail-
cites the experience of the Harry W. Schwartz Book- able from WIFP as well as from University Microfilms,
shop (Wisconsin) which realized a margin 50% higher 300 N. Zeeb Rd., Ann Arbor MI 48106. O
79 Winter 1998
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
By Jenn Tust Metis: A Feminist Journal of Transformative Wisdom,
an annual interdisciplinary journal devoted to femi-
Down There Press is seeking stories for an nist consciousness and theory, seeks essays for its 1998
anthology, Still Doing It: Women and Men Over Sixty issue on Self and Nature. Possible topics include:
Write About Their Sexuality. Stories could describe gender, nature, and power; the ecological self; self in
. topics such as the writer's current sexual activity, ecofeminist psychology; intersubjectivity; spiritual
starting again after a “dry spell,” overcoming physi- experience in the natural world; self and “other”;
cal limitations, dealing with family reactions, or nondualistic conceptions of self; and the categories
challenging expectations about or prohibitions “nature/culture.” Deadline: March 15. Send to
against older people being sexual. Length: 15 pages Candice Chase, Editor, Metis, CIIS, 9 Peter Yorke Way,
max. Deadline: February 1. Send to Joani Blank, PO San Francisco CA 94109; 415-674-5500, ext. 454, email
Box 8263, Emeryville CA 94662, or email (candicec@ciis.edu).
(jeblank@ic.org).
Stories (fiction and nonfiction), poetry, drawings,
87 TIAS and photos addressing the fear of recurrence or
metastases from persons who have had breast cancer
are being sought for the anthology Breast Cancer: Fear
Gynergy Books seeks essays for Women and the of Recurrence. Deadline: April 30. For guidelines, send
Millennium. Topics can include feminist activism in SASE to Anthology, Pioneer Valley Breast Cancer
change; welfare, homelessness and poverty; eco- Network, PO Box 536, Leeds MA 01053.
n co om mic m r ues ntr icu act tu ir oi nng ; a gn id r lm s’i g r oa rti gon a; n ic zy ib ne grs p a ac ne d a n d popular 8I TPAS
culture; Native women and land claims; the future of
women’s studies; women and health; violence
against women; future lesbians; and others. Send Writing Women’s Lives, conference and writing
proposal for approval (two copies, 250 words max.). workshop, will explore the craft of bringing women’s
Deadline for completed essays: March 28. For more perspectives to the page, and will be held May 19—24.
information, or send proposal to Somer Brodribb, Featured authors are Toi Derricotte, Melissa
Women’s Studies, Box 3045, University of Victoria Pritchard, Pamela Painter, Demetria Martinez, and
BC, Canada V8W 3P4; 250-472-4277, fax 250-721- Kay Leigh Hagan, and other distinguished guests will
7210, email (brodribb@uvvm.uvic.ca). also be present. Small group workshops, lectures,
panel discussion, readings and other events will com-
Bluestocking Books seeks feminist book-length prise the activities. For more information contact:
fiction and nonfiction for its 1999 list. No erotica Recursos, Writing Women’s Lives, 826 Camino del
please. For guidelines, send SASE to Bluestocking Monte Rey, Santa Fe NM 87505; 505-982-5464, fax
Books, PO Box 50998, Irvine CA 92619, or view their 505-989-8608, email (recursos@aol.com), Web site
Web site (www.bluestocking.com). (www.santa-fe.com/recursos/). O
Winter 1998 80
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
By Richard Labonte gay elements in rap, hip-hop, film, and photo-
A Different Light Bookstores graphy. Editions Revue Noire/DAP, $50 cl,
2-909571-17-3, March.
I wouldn't go so far as to say that the high and James Baldwin: Early Novels and Stories and
low literature of the African American community is James Baldwin: Collected Essays, both edited by
as commonplace by now as lesbian and gay literature Toni Morrison — With these two weighty tomes
has become, but the number of titles available is vastly (totalling 1,890 pages), Baldwin joins the ranks of Zora
greater than a decade ago. Here are some of those titles Neale Hurston, Richard Wright, W.E.B. Du Bois, and
for the core of a good queer male section. Frederick Douglass as African American authors
Yesterday Will Make You Cry by Chester Himes whose complete works are now available in fine, last-
is a welcome reissue of his 1937 first novel, a then- ing editions. Baldwin’s early novels comprise the first
shocking narrative about a smart (white) loser with its volume, from Go Tell It On the Mountain (1953) to Going
“frank and affecting depictions of prison-bound to Meet the Man (1965); the second volume collects
homosexual romantic love” — so frank, in fact, that decades of his essays and reviews, many never before
Himes rewrote the book four times before it was available in book form. Library of America, $35 cl
finally published, much tempered, in 1952 as Cast the each,.1-883011-51-5; -52-3.
First Stone. This edition restores its original text, which
deals as much with tension between races as it does
with punk love. Norton, $25 cl, 0-393-04577-3.
Lush Life: A Biography of Billy Strayhorn by
David Hajdu — Paper edition of a true word-of- Tell Me How Long the Train’s Been Gone by
mouth hardcover bestseller, about the jazzman behind James Baldwin — And in conjunction with the Library
the legend of Duke Ellington. The stories of his openly of America collections comes a new edition of the
gay life are both sweetly personal and historically rich, story of a Black actor’s life, including his affairs with
providing a literate insight into the veiled world of a white woman and a younger Black man. Vintage,
mid-century urban Black gays. North Point, $15 pb, $14 pb, 0-375-70189-3.
0-86547-512-3, June. Words in the Wind by Demon L.A. Wood — This
Langston Hughes: Short Stories edited by Akiba is a dandy fantasy /adventure based on the legends and
Sullivan Harper — Here’s a hefty 320-page compila- myths of the ancient Nubians and Cushites of Africa.
tion of the work of a major figure from the Harlem ProCord Publishing/Bookazine, $19.95 pb, 096484021.
Renaissance whose visibility has increased in recent Sky Daddy by Canaan Parker — Second novel by
years. Includes 47 short stories. Hill & Wang, $14 pb, the author of The Color of Trees (also Alyson), telling the
0-8090-1603-6. delicate and moving story of a mid-40s man in New
Photographs by Rotimi Fani-Kayode and Alex York whose white lover is about the same age as his
Hirst — Posthumous publication of a 90-image son. Alyson, $10.95 pb, 1-55583-398-5.
collection of the male-nude work of Nigerian-born Gym Rats by Eric Saunders — There’s no short-
Fani-Kayode in collaboration with his partner Hirst, age of boy-party novels with loads of sex: here’s
and including the photographer ’s prescient essay on another near-first, a speedy look at the lives of three
81 Winter 1998
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Black men from New York, Los Angeles and Washing- control of New Orleans’ annual Mardi Gras; this is a
ton, respectively, whose lives and limbs inter-twine wicked novel with great broad gay humor at its core.
one summer, from Memorial Day to Labor Day. “Told By Sheken Publishing, $19.95 pb, 0-9657964-0-X; call
with a tongue of Ebonics commonly spoken in the 888-784-9197.
streets of any Black community in America, Gym Rats Low-Hanging Fruit by G. B. Mann — ”...about
is the story for, by and about ‘down brothas’ with a encounter and exploration, about the contradictions,
body, a brain and a dream.” UEG Books, $14.95 pb, beauty and pain that is the sexual landscape of Afri-
0-9658610-0-7, Alamo. can American men loving.” GrapeVine Press, $18.95
Honey, Honey, Miss Thang: Being Black, Gay cl, 0-9655117-0-7, Alamo.
and on the Streets by Leon E. Pettiway — The lives of One More River to Cross: Black and Gay in
five African American gay hustlers, Shontae, China, America by Keith Boykin — Paper edition of a valu-
Keisha, Detra and Monique, are chronicled by the able book in which the author interviews a spectrum
author, an associate professor of criminal justice; they of his community, from Baptist ministers to passion-
discuss family past, hustling present, future dreams, ate activists, dispelling the myth that gay is a “white
the drive first to survive and then to reclaim their lives. thang” and working to reconcile the African Ameri-
It’s a book full of revelations about life lived on the can community and its gay members. Bantam, $14 pb,
streets, but not a sombre one. Temple University Press, 0-385-47983-2.
` $19.95 pb, 1-56639-498-8.
One of the Children: Gay Black Men in Harlem
by William G. Wakeswood — From an anthropolo-
gisť’s (and insider’s) perspective, this is a study based
on two years of living within contemporary Harlem’s And some other new titles for a people of color section
Black gay culture, where Wakeswood became a part include:
of the often-hidden fabric of the community, and Pier Queen by Emanuel Xavier — Brooklyn-born
explains its class structures, its “family” network, and Xavier, raised by the many houses of New York’s
how AIDS has hit home. University of California legendary Westside Highway piers, is a dazzling new
Press, $15 pb, 0-520-20212-0. voice. His poetry is strong and smart, perceptive and
Skin Deep by John R. Gordon — One of the few unflinching, comic and profound, and bursting with
recent novels to deal with both interracial relation- a politic which transcends the polemic, transmuting
ships and the friendship of Black gay men. Gay Men’s anger into vision. Hmmm, sounds like a blurb; well,
Press, $14.95 pb, 0-85449-246-1, BP /BZ. it’s that good a book. Pier Queen Productions, $6.99
If This World Were Mine by E. Lynn Harris — I pb, 0-9658708-3-9, distributed by Alamo Square.
can't imagine a lesbian, gay, feminist, or progressive The Innocent by Robert Taylor — The author, a
store that doesn’t already carry Harris’ latest (as well former U.S. Army captain with Vietnam service,
as his backlist): he’s probably close to Armistead writes with a rare sensitive insight about the impact
Maupin as one of the very few gay writers whose of an American military presence in Vietnam during
work has crossed over into the non-gay reading com- the 1960s — and about his own fictionalized romance
munity, and his work is building bridges between with a Vietnamese man. Fithian Press, PO Box 1525,
Black gay and straight communities. Doubleday, Santa Barbara CA 93102; $14.95 pb, 1-56474-230-X.
$23.95 cl, 0-385-48655-3. Mala Noche: Johnny by Walt Curtis — With an
If Only for One Nite by James Earl Hardy — introduction by film director Gus Van Sant, this series
Book three in Hardy’s telling of the life of Mitchell of short stories and vignettes recounts the Portland
Crawford (B-Boy Blues, 2nd Time Around) takes its hero street lives of a number of Mexican street kids. Bridge
back to high school for a reunion fraught with memo- City Books, $14.95 pb, 0-9623683-4-2, distributed by
ries of a first love and confusion over being the same Alamo Square.
fool twice. Alyson, $17.95 cl, 1-55583-373-X. A Thousand Wings by T.C. Huo — Laos-born
To Mardi Gras, Wit Love... by K. Rhydell Watson Huo, who immigrated to the U.S. in 1979, has a wholly
— Two African American men plot to (creatively) take See Gay Men’s Lit, page 114
Winter 1998 82
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Compiled by Barb Smalley by a host of traditional and non-traditional instru-
Original reviews written by Laurie Fuchs ments on this 1996 release, Oumou is an amazing
force! World Circuit Music 045.
“You must write about Oumou Sangare and the Tribu /Sally Nyolo. A former member of Zap
African American women from the audience who Mama (and the only one who spent her childhood in
danced on stage with her!” commanded my at-home Africa), Nyolo brings to her music the same inventive-
editor after we saw Oumou’s performance last week ness, attitude and adventurousness as the world-
that moved the editor to tears. Oumou is a diva from famous ensemble with whom she has toured the
Mali who sings about the everyday lives of women in world. Fans of Zap Mama will find much to appreci-
her country. As an audience, we had to stretch across ate on this 1997 album, although Nyolo’s music is
a significant cultural span as the entire performance stylistically unique. Performed in her native tongue of
had perhaps four words of English spoken, and none Eton and fueled by influences from her home country
sung. This was at least one reason I left with a deep of Cameroon, her music reveals a cosmopolitan diver-
feeling of awe and joy over how much in the world I sity, thanks to the years she has spent in Paris
simply don’t know but can still hope to understand by absorbing sounds from all over the globe. Fabulous
listening. And I resolved to write here about the music rhythms, upbeat melodies! Tinder 4679.
and performances of divas (which seems to me a Susana Baca/Susana Baca. Her voice was first
difficult, not always feminist, fact of women in music) revealed to the world on the compilation The Soul of
and about women’s music which builds communities. Black Peru and later on Divine Divas. Here Susana
I hope we can understand some of the bridges presents us with her 1997 full-length worldwide
between the worlds of Black and European women’s debut, heralding not only the return of an evocative
history this way. voice, but also the arrival of a veritable cultural treas-
ure. She has dedicated herself to the preservation of
the history and culture of her people, African-
descended Peruvians. Luaka Bop 46627.
Dark City Sisters/Flying Jazz Queens/Dark
Worotan/Oumou Sangare. From their perspec- City Sisters/Flying Jazz Queens. This title has been
tive, birds can see things that escape humans; in a staple of our African section. In the history of
Wassoulou, it is believed that certain birds can com- modern South African music, the Dark City Sisters
municate their view of the world to humans. In this form the crucial link between Miriam Makeba and
title, Oumou is the songbird who expresses her anger Mahlathini & the Mahotella Queens. The Sisters
about injustices toward women with strength and loosened up the 4-part harmonies of groups like
vitality, stunning vocals and insightful lyrics. In an these and poured in a distinctly Zulu vocal style.
ironic tone, she sings about the “big men” in a poly- Their sound, known as jive, has echoed in the vocal
gamist culture, she reveals the unfairness of a system harmonies of virtually every South African pop
that defines a good wife as a submissive woman, and group of the past 30 years. Released in the U.S. in
she sings out against violence towards women. Joined 1993, this is a collection of 14 of this historic group’s
83 Winter 1998
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
most popular singles from the 1960s, as well as two by Rolling Stone a “feminist anthem-in-waiting”...plus
hits by the Sisters’ friendly rivals, the Flying Jazz live versions of favorites. Univeral 53109.
Queens. Earthworks 31.
Baduizm/Erykah Badu. Okay, so maybe you
have heard this artist on commercial radio (not
usually our realm!). There are few artists who can
record a debut album and instantly have it considered The Verve label has a newly released series of the
a classic, but that is exactly what Erykah has done on best blues and jazz soloists.
this 1997 release. Her style is so fresh, her voice so Ultimate Billie Holiday /Billie Holiday. Vocal-
beautiful (she’s been compared to Billie Holiday), that ist/pianist Shirley Horn had a difficult time selecting
as soon as [I first heard this album, nothing else went her favorite Billie Holiday songs for this release. She
into my CD player for weeks. Her songs are positive, settled on 16 songs, each one a signature tune which
loving, spiritual, funny and poignant. During a time Billie so personalized that they became hers. Includes
when so much of current R&B is wallowing in a waste- “Strange Fruit,” “Don’t Explain,” “God Bless the
land of name-dropping and label-flashing, Baduizm Child,” “Lady Sings the Blues,” “Fine” and “Mellow.”
is such good food for the soul it'd be a crying shame Verve 539051.
` to miss it. Universal 53027. Ultimate Dinah Washington/Dinah Washing-
Live/Erykah Badu. This follow-up 1997 release ton. Both Abbey Lincoln — who assembled and
was recorded live in-studio before an enthusiastic annotated this collection — and her subject, known as
audience. Accompanied by her 3-piece band and the “Queen of the Blues,” share a healthy spirit of
background singers, she recorded six new unreleased defiance in their music. Includes 16 of her classic
tracks, including the original song “Tyrone,” dubbed songs: “The Bitter Earth,” “Cry Me a River,” “Blue
Gardenia” and “Since I Fell For You.” Verve 539053.
Ultimate Ella Fitzgerald/Ella Fitzgerald. “She
You’ve heard that always told a story like she was telling it for the first
(M7 time.... Songwriters would stand in line to get her to
music sells great. sing their songs.” So said vocalist Joe Williams, who
Goldenrod Music selected these 16 very classic tracks for this 1997 issue.
Includes “Bess, You Is My Woman Now,” “Lullaby of
makes it easy too! Birdland,” ”A-Tisket, A-Tasket,” “Oh, Lady Be
Good!” and more. Verve 539054.
Ultimate Nina Simone/Nina Simone. Dianne
v Same Day Shipping Reeves, who selected the songs for this edition,
explains, “I understand why they called Nina the
(New Stores - Free Shipping for 3 Orders) High Priestess of Soul. To me, she has a tear in her
«/ Large Selection voice. It is rich and dark and beautiful. Her sound is
s No Risk - 100% Returns undeniable.” Many of her lyrics tell of women yearn-
s Knowledgeable Staff ing for freedom; includes “Four Women,” “See-Line
Woman,” “Wild Is the Wind,” “Take Me To the Water”
(...and fun to talk to!) and more. Verve 539050.
VVV VVVVVVVYVVVYV yY Ultimate Sarah Vaughan /Sarah Vaughan. Sarah
Vaughan has stood as an inspiration to anyone aspir-
ing to vocal jazz excellence. The influence she had on
the celebrated vocalist Dee Dee Bridgewater, who
selected the songs for this volume, was deep,
profound and unmistakable. Includes “Summer-
time,” “Shulie A Bop,” “Little Girl Blue” and “Smoke
Gets In Your Eyes.” Verve 539052.
Winter 1998
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Compilation 1986-1996 / Faith Nolan. This lesbian
singer /songwriter/activist incorporates music into Can You Afford Not to Call?
her political work, which springs from a politics
firmly rooted in her identity as a working-class
African Canadian woman. Her excellent 1997 retro-
spective brings together 22 of her most prolific and The Most Extensive Selection
political songs from her first four releases: Africville,
Sistership, Freedom to Love and Hard to Imagine. Faith's of Recordings by Women
original compositions, as well as her covers, are
strongly rooted in the cultural language of Black
North American music: spiritual, gospel, jazz and FeministWomen’s Music + Comedy + World
bluešs...each song a tool to inspire social change for a
better world. Faith N’ Faith 1164. Drumming/Percussion + Rock/Pop + Spoken
Alternative + Soundtracks + Men's Music
Blues + Spirituality + Jazz + Classical
Shakin’ a Tailfeather/Linda Tillery, Taj Mahal et Country + International + and much more...
al. Children and adults alike will be swinging and
grooving to this unique 1997 collection of classic dance-
able tunes performed by Linda Tillery and the Cultural LADYSLIPPERQMUSIC
Heritage Choir, Taj Mahal and Eric Bibb. Contempo-
rary sounds such as “Shortnin’ Bread” in hip-hop style Nationally Distributing Music By Women Since 1976
join with classic rock ‘n’ roll like “Rockin’ Robin”...plus
“Ask Grandma,” “Oh Mary Mack,” “Little Sally
Walker,” “The Name Game,” “Follow the Drinking Womyn with Wings/Carien Wijnen & Friends.
Gourd,” “Land of 1,000 Dances” and more. Music For All Libana-lovers and Goddess-chant lovers will love
Little People 72940. this one. Subtitled Frauen singen Heilungs — und
Mammas/Mammas. This is a must-hear record- Kraftlieder, this German import features a 17-woman
ing! Absolutely one of the most haunting, entrancing (mostly) a cappella ensemble performing 18 of the
and exciting pieces we've encountered in a long time best-loved Goddess and circle chants — 14 in English.
— read on! An exquisite blending of Mediterranean Recorded in a church, their reverberating harmonies
cultures, rhythms and textures, it reflects the back- sound glorious indeed! Includes many Libana favor-
grounds of the four incredible women vocalists who ites, such as “A River of Birds in Migration,” “Old
make up the ensemble: Lucilla Galeazzi (Italy), Yiota Woman Is Watching (Weave and Mend)” “We All
Vei (Greece), Equidad Bares (Spain /Southern France), Come From the Goddess,” “Mother Ocean, Rainbow
and Hayet Ayad (Algeria). The lyrics are in the sing- Woman,” “Our Magic Is Our Give Away” and the
ers’ native languages, so you may not understand all classic by Naomi Littlebear Morena, “Like A Moun-
the words, but the intense beauty of the music will tain,” a:k.a. “You Can't Kill:the Spirit (Old and
speak to you and move you — the passion, the diva- Strong),” (which still travels the world over without
esque voices (they rotate lead), the ancient to credit to its source). With excellent arrangements
atmospheric acoustic instrumentation (percussion, Womyn with Wings undoubtedly includes a few
accordion, charango, bouzouki, violoncello, oboe, rounds and chants which will be new to the listener
oud, violin, rebec, clarinet and much more). Organ- — truly a demonstration of the global women’s spiri-
ized by French producer Phillipe Eidel, the songs were tuality community. Carien Wijnen & Friends 1.
created for a French production entitled Sud, and the Different Angels/Choeur Maha. This feminist
album was recorded in France between 1993 and 1997. choir from Montreal, which formed in 1991, comes
Way, way recommended! La Bande Son 47770. See Music, page 114.
85 Winter 1998
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
BCRRIGEHNT S TIAARS
b
Based on an old Cornish Legend
Seeing Red by Sarah Garland
Full color illustrations by Tony Ross
93⁄4 x 91⁄2, 32 pages, ages 6+
Hardcover ISBN 0-916291-64-2, $12.95
Notable Children’s Book 1997
Smithsonian Magazine Children's Book Review Service
“It’s not everyday that a spunky little girl gets
Bright Star by Gary Crew to save her entire town from destruction.”
Full color illustrations by Anne Spudvilas
81⁄2 x 11, 32 pages ages 5-9
Hardcover ISBN 0-916291-75-8, $13.95 School Library Journal
“...entertaining and useful as an example of a
Kirkus Review October 1997 quick-thinking little girl.”
“This lovely book...doesn’t feel like
a lesson, though it contains all the
elements of one. Instead Crew focuses Send for a free color catalog:
on a child’s dreams and the moment Kane/Miller
she realizes that her fate is in P.O. Box 310529
her hands. Spudvila’s glowing Brooklyn NY 11231-0529
oil paintings capture Alicia’s or: phone 718-624-5120
expressions, conveying with the text, fax 718-858-5452
a message of affirmation...” email Kanemill@aol.com
86 Volume 20 Number 5/6
Winter 1998
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
By Linda Bubon the cultural traditions of Africa. $5.99, 0689-81816-5,
Women & Children First/Chicago Simon & Schuster.
Uncle Jed’s Barbershop by Margaree King
New Titles for Black History Month Mitchel], illustrated by James Ransome. I loved this
African Beginnings by James Haskins and book when it was first published and am delighted
Kathleen Benson, paintings by Floyd Cooper. A to see it in paperback. Mitchell tells the story of an
beautiful book, the first of a series of seven on African itinerant barber in the segregated South, patiently
American history: a new one will release each January. saving up for his own shop. Because of his generous
This volume introduces children to ancient Africa, spirit, his dream is deferred until late in life. When he
various tribes and regions, religion, culture, trade, finally achieves his dream, yow'll cheer along with
slavery and colonization. Floyd Cooper’s illustrations the little girl, grown to a woman, who remembers
are sweeping and personal at the same time. The Uncle Jed’s love and perseverance. $5.99, 0689-81913-7,
authors are veterans. All ages. $16, 0688-10256-5, Simon & Schuster.
Lathrop, Lee & Shepard (Morrow). From Miss Ida’s Porch by Sandra Belton, illus-
trated by Floyd Cooper. Tales told on the porch about
Duke Ellington, who stayed at Miss Ida's when he was
shut out of “whites only” hotels, and Marian Anderson,
whose two historic concerts in Washington, D.C., 25
Running Girl: The Diary of Ebonee Rose by years apart, testify to the power of the civil rights move-
Sharon Bell Mathis. Fictionalized diary, a whole genre ment. A personal introduction to the issue of racial
in itself these days, of an 11-year-old track star who’s segregation. $5.99, 0689-81802-5, Simon & Schuster.
preparing for the all-city meet. Lots of details about
running and various track and field events with built-
in suspense. The best part of this book is that Ebonee
Rose knows a lot about famous women track stars and
calls on them for strength. Her very supportive family Breaking the Chains: African-American Slave
and a great coach help Ebonee to know that she is part Resistance by William Loren Katz. There are several
of a great tradition. Ages 9-12. $17, 015-200674-5, books out on the Amistad rebellion to capitalize on the
Browndeer Press (Harcourt). Spielberg movie, but this book, which draws on pri-
Africa Brothers and Sisters by Virginia Kroll, mary sources, gives a bigger picture. Accounts of
illustrated by Vanessa French. From Ashanti weavers daylight warfare and nighttime escapes, and portraits
to the beautiful turbaned women of the Wolof, Jesse of individual courage and group determination paint
and her father celebrate more than twenty different a picture of struggle that spanned centuries. $10 pb,
African peoples as they honor their connections to 0689-81919-6, Simon & Schuster.
A Street Called Home by Aminah Brenda Lynn
Graphic by Laura Irene Wayne, in Journey to Feel (Jora). Robinson. Art between two covers. Robinson s/ows us
87 Winter 1998
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
the tumult of life on Mount Vernon Avenue in Colum- celebrated on the day she awaited all her life. Power-
bus, Ohio, in the 1940s. This is an accordion book with ful reminder to young people (and their elders!) about
flaps that recreates the rich life and culture on a self-suf- the importance of voting. For ages 5-10. $14.95 cl,
ficient street where people bought, sold and bartered, 0316-70267-6, Little, Brown.
played and danced. $18, 015-201465-9, Harcourt Brace. A Way Out of No Way: Writings About Growing
Up Black in America edited by Jacqueline Woodson.
Favorite Black History Month Titles Inspiring stories and poems by the best: Toni Morri-
The Story of Ruby Bridges by Robert Coles. son, James Baldwin, Rosa Guy, June Jordan, Jamaica
Beautifully told and illustrated, this is an inspiring Kincaid, Gwendolyn Brooks and others. For junior
story for ages 5-10. We like to sell this with the charis- high to adult. $4.50, 0-449-70460-2, Fawcett.
matic Susan Salidor’s second cassette (or CD) By Heart
which includes her tribute song “Ruby B.” By Heart New Titles for Women’s History Month
and Little Voices in My Head are available from Rounder 19th Century Girls and Women by Bobbie
Kids. Susan’s tapes outsell every other kids’ music Kalman. Particularly nice trade history of the time for
tape, and it’s not just because she’s local — she’s a 3rd to 6th graders, illustrated with Victorian paintings
gifted singer who knows what kids like; never sticky- and drawings. Includes thumbnail sketches of
. sweet. Our staff enjoys listening to her, too, and she’s a women who made a difference. $7.95, 0-86505-464-9,
feminist to boot. $13.95, 05905-7281-4, Scholastic. Crabtree Publishing Company.
Lift Every Voice and Sing by James Weldon Abigail Adams: Witness to a Revolution by
Johnson, illustrated by Elizabeth Catlett. Beautiful Natalie S. Bober. Wonderfully told biography for ages
woodcuts accompany this stirring anthem. $6.95, 12 and up. This could work in your adult biography
080277-442-3, Walker & Co. section, too. Starred reviews from Booklist and School
Library Journal. “The intelligence, inner strength, and
vitality of Abigail Adams emerge with bold strokes of
[the] pen.” $9 pb, 0689-81916-1, Simon & Schuster.
My Grandmother’s Journey by John Cech, illus-
trated by Sharon McGinley-Nally. Eastern European
Barefoot: Escape on the Underground Railroad immigrant story based on the author’s mother-in-
by Pamela Duncan Edwards, illustrated by Henry law's life. A survivor of the Russian Revolution and
Cole. This is a compelling picture book that follows the devastation of World War II, Grandmother never
one slave’s escape through woods and marshes. The lost her longing for freedom. $5.99, 0689-81890-4,
heron cries out warnings that “the heavy boots” are Simon & Schuster.
nearby, a little mouse shows him ripe berries, and an There are two new titles in the Dear America
“army of mosquitoes” chases the slave catchers away, historical diaries series from Scholastic. Dreams in the
leaving the runaway unbitten. He reaches a safe Golden Country: The Diary of Zipporah Feldman, a
house, fireflies helpfully lighting the way. While Jewish Immigrant Girl, New York City, 1903 by
young children (4 to 10 year olds) are trying to under- Kathryn Lasky. Kathryn Lasky is one of our best writers
stand the horror of slavery, they can take some of historical fiction and has won the Newberry Honor
comfort in the benevolence of the animal kingdom. and the National Jewish Book Award, so I'm sure this
$14.95, 006-027137X, HarperCollins. will be one of the best in the series. We are selling the
Encounter by Jane Yolen. The story of Columbus’ Dear America series very well this season, and I expect
invasion from the point of view of a Taino Indian boy. to continue to do so ($9.95, 0-590-02973-8). The second
This is a “heavy” one, for kids 8 and up. Exquisite release in Spring is West to a Land of Plenty: The Diary
paintings. $6 pb, 015-201389X, Harcourt Brace. of Teresa Angelino Viscardi, New York to Idaho
The Day Gogo Went to Vote: South Africa, April Territory, 1883 by Jim Murphy ($9.95, 0-590-73888-7).
1994 by Elinor Batezat Sisulu, illustrated by Sharon American Diaries #9: Celou Sudden Shout by
Wilson. Beautifully told story about South Africa's Kathleen Duey. This story is set in 1827 and features a
first election. A little girl narrates how her grandma young woman, the daughter of a French trapper and
Winter 1998 88
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
a Shoshone woman, who struggles to save a boy's life. Favorite Women’s History Month Titles
The American Diaries are well-written historical Bloomers by Rhoda Blumberg. For ages 4-8, this
fiction for 8 to 12 year olds, each featuring a young is a colorful, well-told story about the beginnings of
girl. Though not as classy in presentation as the Dear the suffrage movement and the woman who invented
America series from Scholastic, American Diaries are the first clothes a woman could ride a bike in. A great
inexpensive and are a good follow-up to the American way for little girls to connect the issue of personal
G Sii mrl os n b &oo k Ss c h ( u7 s t t eo r . 9 year olds). $3.99, 0-689-81622-7, freedom with political freedom. Remember, less than
a hundred years ago, girls couldn't wear pants any-
where. Girls today (and for the past 20 years) can wear
pants to school. All thanks to Amelia Bloomer. $5.95,
0-689-804555, Simon & Schuster.
The Ballot Box Battle by Emily Arnold McCully.
Pioneer Girl: The Story of Laura Ingalls Wilder Wonderfully told story for ages six and up which
by William Anderson, beautifully illustrated by Dan shows Mrs. Stanton (Elizabeth Cady) taking her
A tn hd er e a cse rn e. a tF oor r a g oe fs s tev he en a Ln id t t u lep , Hth oe u sb eio g r ba oph oy k s o . f $15.95, y leo su son ng s n we ii tg hh b o hr e r ,C o tr od e tli ha e, w poh lo ls h ta os db ee men a n dta k ti on g v or ti ed .ing
006-027243-0, HarperCollins. Cordelia is at first embarrassed by the outspoken Mrs.
We Shall Not Be Moved: The Women’s Factory Stanton who is laughed at and disparaged by the men
Strike of 1909 by Joan Dash. New in paperback, a at the polls. But Mrs. Stanton’s courage, dignity, and
stirring telling of the beginning of the women’s labor intelligence inspire Cordelia, turning her embarrass-
movement. $5.99, 0590-48410-9, Scholastic. ment to respect. $17, 0679879382, Knopf.
Winning Ways: A Photohistory of American Breaking Barriers: The Feminist Revolution
Women in Sports by S. Macy. Great book for sports from Susan B. Anthony to Margaret Sanger to Betty
fans, ages 9 and up. $5.99, 0590-76336-9, Scholastic. Friedan. For junior high — readable and focused
One final new paperback to remember is The feminist history. $5.99, 0140379681, Puffin.
View from Saturday by E.L. Konigsburg, which won Introducing Feminism by Susan Watkins. For
the Newberry Medal in 1997. Coming mid-January middle schoolers and up. $9.95, 1874166048, National
from Aladdin Paperbacks, this is a terrific story about Book Network.
four sixth graders who win their state's Academic
Bowl competition. $4.50, 0689-81721-5, Simon &
Schuster. V T E
Isadora Dances by Rachel Isadora. No one illus-
trates dancers better than Rachel Isadora, and her new Seven Brave Women by Betsy Hearne, illustrated
biography for ages 3-8 is a perfect introduction to the by Bethanne Andersen. If you missed my glowing
woman who “dreamed of a different dance” and for- review of this book last time, I will simply tell you that
ever changed the course of dance. $15.99, this is my personal favorite for ages 6 and up. Betsy
0670-87893-6, Viking. Hearne tells the stories of seven of her ancestors, brave
She’s Been Working on the Railroad by Nancy women who lived through wars “but did not fight in
Smiler Levinson with photos collected and taken by them.” In seven paragraphs, each beautifully illus-
Shirley Burman. Eye-opening account of women rail- trated, she tells “herstory,” the women who planted,
road workers over the past 150 years. Truly a painted, sang, stitched quilts, birthed babies and mid-
groundbreaking history with never-before-seen wifed farm animals — in short created family, culture
photos, Nancy Levinson is a children’s history writer, and society in the past two centuries. This book stirs
but this book will be of interest to adult historians and the soul! $15 hc, 0688145027, Greenwillow (Morrow).
railroad buffs, too. She is very interested in promoting Scholastic Encyclopedia of Women in the U.S.
this book and can be reached at 310-276-1412. $16.99, Comprehensive, colorful; a must for every school
0-525-67545-0, Viking (Lodestar, actually, an imprint li$bra1ry7 an.d9 g5rea,t t o 0ha5ve 9 on0 h2and2 f7or 9 sc2ho0ol .r ep orOts.
of Viking, now axed).
89 Winter 1998
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
AUDIO e VIDEO e CD-ROM
ELECTRONIC BOOKS
AUDIO & VIDEO pher and bestselling author. Promote this as a rental,
By Donna Niles then stock her books and watch 'em move out of the
store. $34.95, two-part video, 156176390X, Mystic Fire.
At Amazon, Caroline Myss (pronounced “mace”
is a word-of-mouth bestseller. Myss is a medical intui-
. tive and healer who believes illness serves vital
emotional and psychological needs. She has a six-
cassette audio set available from Sounds True that
sells for $59.95. All her books and other audio titles VIDEO
(about four) consistently sell well. [Feminist book- By Liz Wermcrantz
sellers] gotta know about these! Women & Children First/Chicago
The Energetics of Healing by Caroline Myss.
($49.95, two-part video, 156455418X, Sounds True.) This All Over Me. Totally cool, refreshing movie about
is another insightful set of videos that will sell if prop- young women living in Hell’s Kitchen, New York.
erly displayed and promoted. It’s highly rentable, and Brought to us by the producers of The Incredibly True
will likely cause a stampede of book sales. Myss also has Adventure of Two Girls in Love, this movie tops my list.
Anatomy of Spirit ($14, 0609-800-140, Random), and We witness the angst and frustration of being a young
Why People Don’t Heal and How They Can ($25, dyke in love with her somewhat-straight best friend.
0609-600907, Harmony), as well as five books on audio- The friendship holds all the naive promise most of us
tape that have sold well and rent consistently. Myss is have experienced at one time or another. Ultimately, the
not a New Ager and, lacking a therapeutic demeanor, young women deal with a lot of hardcore issues like
she can be a challenge to those who want lulling. Salt- drugs and murder and absent parents as they bumble
of-the-earth and no-nonsense in her approach, her along trying to make sense of their worlds. It is funny,
guided tour of the hidden dimension of the human poignant, upsetting: you won't be the same after view-
body is life-challenging and exciting. It’s a relief from ing it. Interspersed with great music by women like Ani
the belief that we are totally responsible for incurring DiFranco, you must get this movie! $79.95. Available
and healing all illness. from both Wolfe Video and Naiad Video.
A Passion for the Possible by Jean Houston. Here Around the World the Lesbian Way. Another
is the woman who created a media frenzy when they collection of lesbian shorts brought to you by Naiad
found out she was “channeling” Eleanor Roosevelt for Press. I was just reading the newly published book
Hillary in the White House. Hardly a channeler, Hous- from Seal Press, Film Fatales, which includes several
ton is in fact a very wise woman, with a dramatic pages devoted to Barbara Grier. This I didn't know:
speaking style. She tells stories of her time spent with Naiad, under the direction of Barbara, joined forces
such visionaries as Margaret Mead, Helen Keller, with Northern Arts Entertainment for one reason: to
Mother Teresa, and others. A student of Joseph Camp- get lesbian short films out there for public consump-
bell, she carries a feminist vision of mythology. Houston tion as opposed to living their lives as short runs at film
is an explorer of changing human capacities, a philoso- See New Media, page 94.
Winter 1998 90 Volume 20 Number 5/6
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
t
By Nan Cinnater Marti MacAlister in workmanlike police proce-
Cape & Dagger /Provincetown, MA durals. Here she investigates the death of a young
woman whose drug-dealing boyfriend — and prob-
Yes, even in the mystery section, you can celebrate able murderer — may be putting a homeless man
African American History Month and Women’s History and Marti’s own family at risk. Bland’s previous
Month! The most essential tool for promoting African books, all available in mass market paper, include
American mysteries is Paula L. Woods’ excellent collec- Keep Still, Done Wrong, Gone Quiet, Slow Burn, and
tion, Spooks, Spies, and Private Eyes, now available in (the first in the series) Dead Time. $22.95 cl, 0-312-
paper from Doubleday. Woods includes both fore- 16910-8, February, St. Martin’s.
fathers and foremothers of the African American My personal favorite of these three writers is
mystery, and she devotes a whole section to contempo- Barbara Neely, who blasts stereotypes with her por-
rary “Sistuhs in Crime.” Woods discovered that the very trait of the sharp and sympathetic domestic worker,
first mystery story published by an African American Blanche White, while also playing with the traditions
writer was the 1900 “Talma Gordon,” a locked-room of the cozy whodunit. In Blanche Cleans Up, set in
mystery about miscegenation, by Pauline E. Hopkins, Neely’s native Boston, Blanche is filling in as cook-
making her the founding foremother of the African housekeeper for a Boston Brahmin politician when
American mystery. Of course any celebration of she uncovers a scandal that touches her own commu-
African American mysteries has to include the male nity of Roxbury. Blanche Cleans Up may not ship in
pioneers like Rudolph Fisher (author of the 1932 time for African American History Month, but, with
novel The Conjure Man Dies), Chester Himes, Walter her strong feminist and anti-racist sensibility, Blanche
Mosley, and Gar Anthony Haywood. In this column, is welcome anytime. Viking is offering a limited
however, we will concentrate on the women. $12.95 number of autographed copies of Blanche Cleans Up,
pb, 0-385-47955-7, Doubleday. so talk to your sales rep. Neely’s previous books,
l available in paper from Penguin, are Blanche Among
the Talented Tenth and Blanche on the Lam. $22.95 cl,
0-670-87626-7, April, Viking.
Valerie Wilson Wesley writes excellent, lean and
mean noir novels about Newark, New Jersey private
eye Tamara Hayle, another single mom struggling to
protect her son in a community where violence and
The reigning queens of African American despair claim too many young men. In the recent No
mystery writing are Eleanor Taylor Bland, Barbara Hiding Place, Tamara agrees to search for the mur-
Neely, and Valerie Wilson Wesley. Bland’s latest, See derer of good-for-nothing Shawn Raymond, because
No Evil, is the sixth in her series featuring tough but Shawn had been a friend of Tamara’s beloved brother,
tender Illinois police detective and widowed mom who committed suicide some years before. Ultimately
Illustrations by Yani Batteau from The Dyke Detector, the investigation leads to Newark’s upper class,
Paradigm Publishing. challenging Tamara’s assumptions about crime and
91 Winter 1998
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
community. Wesley’s previous novels, all available in Just in time for African American History Month
mass market paper, are Where Evil Sleeps, Devil's Gonna are entries by two Atlanta residents: former Naiad
Get Him, and When Death Comes Stealing. $21.95 cl, author Penny Mickelbury and children’s book author
0-399-14318-1, Putnam. Evelyn Coleman. In What A Woman’s Gotta Do by
Lately, every season brings new African Ameri- Evelyn Coleman, Atlanta reporter and martial arts
can women into the mystery field. In the last FBN, I student Patricia Conley uncovers a vast and sinister
reviewed the jazz-influenced noir novel, Rhode conspiracy centered on the contents of a safe deposit
Island Red by Charlene Carter ($15.99 cl, 1-85242- box left to her by her missing fiancée: a computer disk,
5664-4, Serpent's Tail) and the light-hearted baseball a red diamond, and a mysterious locket. Conley
mystery, Caught in a Rundown by Lisa Saxton ($21 cl, makes an interesting heroine. A cynical, sober alco-
0-684-82967-3, Simon & Schuster). Author Chassie holic raised in foster homes, she trusts no one, least of
West is carving out a Southern Gothic sub-genre, with all the ancient African spirit guides who begin
African American heroines who uncover evil secrets appearing to her in visions that help her solve the
in small towns. Her Harper paperbacks are Sunrise mystery. Ultimately this would-be thriller was too
and Loss of Innocence. ($5.50 pb, 0-06-108111-6, rich a mixture for me, but “X-files” fans might love it.
Harper.) A favorite in our store is Do Not Go Gently $23 cl, 0-684-83175-9, March, Simon & Schuster.
. by Judith Smith-Levin, which introduced Massachu-
setts police lieutenant Star Duvall in the hunt for a
serial killer preying on Black professionals. Smith-
Levin was herself the first female uniformed patrol
officer in Worcester, Massachusetts, and her experi-
ence shows in the authentic details of police
procedure. ($5.99 pb, 0-06-101109-6, Harper.) One Must Wait by Penny Mickelbury introduces
the first Black female criminal defense attorney in
fiction. Hot shot lawyer Carol Ann Gibson resigns
Good Cop, Bad Cop from her profitable D.C. law firm in a crisis of con-
by Barbara D'Amato science only a few days before her husband is
murdered on a city sidewalk. Is it connected to his last
An illegal raid on the Black Panthers in the meeting with an unscrupulous client? The answers
‘60s comes back to haunt the Chicago Police m lota y c ll oi se e r i n t ot h he o mba ey . o Wus i t hof t L ho eu i hsi ea ln pa , o fo r g ot oh de y f rm iea ny d s ,b e s oa me
Department in the ‘90s. of them cops, Carol Ann investigates. Mickelbury
Chicago police officer Susannah Maria mixes courtroom drama, environmental politics, and
old-fashioned police work in a smooth and suspense-
Figueroa suspects that her fellow patrol cop, ful brew. This mainstream novel may bring more
brother of the Superintendent of Police, is readers to Mickelbury’s lesbian mysteries, Keeping
hiding a fatal secret. As she searches for the Secrets and Night Songs. $22 cl, 0-684-83741-2, Simon
truth, she is faced with the question of & Schuster.
whether to accuse a fellow officer of murder. Cop turned graduate student Mali Anderson is
the heroine of the well-received If I Should Die, by
“A gritty portrayal of day-to-day police activity, Grace Edwards, a mystery rooted in Harlem neigh-
complete with vividly realized supporting borhoods and involving a fictionalized Harlem Boys’
characters and realistic moral dilemmas.” Choir ($5.99 pb, 0-553-57631-3, March, Bantam).
— Publishers Weekly Edwards has a new hardcover, A Toast Before Dying,
coming from Doubleday in April. Norah DeLoach
Forge, March 1998, $22.95 introduces an African American Miss Marple in
ISBN 0-312-86562-7 Mama Stalks the Past. “Mama” is widowed Grace
Covington, amateur sleuth of her very own St. Mary
Winter 1998 92
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Mead, in this case a small town called Otis, South 41805-0, Ballantine.) The sequel, The Knowledge of
Carolina. ($21.95 cl, 0-553-10662-7, Bantam.) Being Water, is even more remarkable — and more explic-
young and Black at Harvard can be murder, prompt- itly feminist — but mystery fans will want to read
ing an African American economics professor to turn them in order so as to maintain the suspense. Set in
sleuth in A Darker Shade of Crimson by Pamela Paris and culminating in the flood of 1910, The
Thomas-Graham. This is billed as “an Ivy League Knowledge of Water rejoins some of the same char-
mystery,” and apparently Thomas-Graham already acters, along with fictional representations of Colette,
has plans to bring her heroine back for another mur- Gertrude Stein, and Picasso. Here the big questions
der, this time at Yale. ($22 cl, 0-684-84526-1, April, are about women and art. Can a woman be a mother,
Simon & Schuster.) make a home, and also be a serious artist? What
And what about Women’s History Month in the makes art “authentic” and when is art forgery? These
mystery section? One approach would be to feature questions, separate at the beginning of the narrative,
“women’s history mysteries,” the growing number of are so neatly tied together by the end that they’re
feminist historical mysteries that combine suspense inextricable. Sarah Smith is doing amazing things,
with historical background on women’s issues such as certainly transcending the suspense genre, and these
suffrage and paid work. The prime practitioner here books are well worth recommending in any month.
is Miriam Grace Monfredo, whose series about librar- ($12 tp, 0-345-40963-9, Ballantine.)
ian Glynis Tryon begins in Seneca Falls in 1848, with
Glynis working beside Elizabeth Cady Stanton to
organize the world’s first women’s rights convention
(Seneca Falls Inheritance, $4.99 pb, 0-425-14465-8).
Luckily for readers, Seneca Falls was a hotbed of
American radicalism, allowing Monfredo to deal with
slaves on the Underground Railroad (The North Star
Conspiracy, $5.50, 0-425-14720-7), racism against the
Iroquois (Blackwater Spirits, $5.99, 0-425-15266-9), On a much lighter note, feisty feminist Fremont
and the radical abolitionism of John Brown (Through Jones is an entertaining guide to early twentieth-
a Gold Eagle, $5.99 pb, 0-425-15898-5). In the new century women’s history in the mystery series by
hard cover, The Stalking Horse, Glynis helps her Dianne Day. As The New York Times said, “After leav-
niece Bronwen, now a Pinkerton agent, foil an assas- ing home in 1905 to see the world...Dianne Day’s
sination plot on the eve of the Civil War. ($21.95 cl, fearless heròine turns up in The Bohemian Murders
0-425-15783-0, March, all from Berkley.) tending the Pinos Point lighthouse on the storm-
My new favorite among feminist historical writ- tossed coast of Monterey Bay.” Of course a body
ers is Sarah Smith, who is writing a very literary washes up, and Fremont Jones sets out to investigate.
trilogy set in the early twentieth century. The first two ($5.50 pb, 0-553-57412-4, March, Bantam.) The whole
of these novels are available in trade paper; the third series is really nicely packaged, with intriguing cover
has not yet been published. The Vanished Child, set art and great blurbs (“A special treat. Highly recom-
in 1906, introduces us to the Baron Von Reisden, a mended.”—Chicago Tribune). Customers will thank
driven young scientist studying neurology in Swit- you if you stock them all, including Fire and Fog
zerland, and Perdita Halley, a nearly blind, ($5.50 pb, 0-553-56922-8, Bantam) and The Strange
remarkably gifted pianist from Boston. These two are Files of Fremont Jones ($5.50 pb, 0-553-56921-X).
brought together in a mystery about the Baron’s ori- For British women’s history, there’s Dance on
gins: is he the vanished child of the title, grandson of Blood by Gillian Linscott, featuring “no-nonsense,
the wealthy, murdered William Knight? Or is the passionate suffragette” Nell Bray. Nell is unknown
child dead, himself a victim of the same murderer? to me, but she has apparently already appeared in
Strong characters and atmosphere are brought to Dead Man’s Sweetheart and Crown Witness, published
bear in the service of big themes: memory and reality, in hardcover by St. Martin’s Press. Here she gets
art and science, biology and destiny. ($12 tp, 0-345- involved in a dangerous plot with a Greek exotic
93 Winter 1998
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
dancer and German spies. ($22.95 cl, 0-312-18075-6, New Media, continued from page 90.
April, St. Martin’s Press.) Going back a few centu- festivals. This particular collection, thanks to Barbara,
ries, Patricia Finney’s critically lauded Firedrake’s includes a wide variety of ideas and genres. There are
Eye concerns a plot to assassinate Elizabeth I ($13 tp, five films with topics ranging from baton twirlers and
0-312-18094-2, Picador/St. Martin’s), and her new bull dykes to sexual conquests and more. A definite
novel, Unicorn’s Blood, centers around a private must for our stores. $29.95. Available from Northern
diary kept by the young Elizabeth which could Arts/Naiad Video.
destroy the government if it fell into the wrong Everything Relative. A feature-length film by
hands ($25 cl, 0-312-18201-5, Picador/St. Martin’s). Sharon Pollack, Everything Relative is about the notion
This is very literary historical fiction, more Umberto of families, the chosen kind. Billed as a lesbian Big Chill,
Eco than Ellis Peters, but it has enough intrigue to it focuses on a long-time group of friends as they are
qualify for this column. reunited for a special occasion. Spent mostly at a sum-
Stephanie Barron continues her uncanny recrea- mer home on a lake, the women fight and connect, have
tion of the “real” Jane Austen in Jane and the sex and skinny dip, and ultimately come to terms with
Wandering Eye, in which a masquerade ball leads to their radical 70s feminist backgrounds in a 90s world.
murder. Barron seamlessly unites historical details of Entertaining and funny. Be sure to stock up on this one
Austen's life with fictional mysteries, all in a close as it’s included in our current Feminist Bookstore
approximation of Austen's own lively, gossipy style. Network Catalog. $79.95. Available from Wolfe Video.
This is the third in a series that includes Jane and the
Unpleasantness at Scargrave Manor and Jane and the Man
of the Cloth, both available in mass market paper from
Bantam. $22.95 cl, 0-553-10204-4, March, Bantam.
Historical or not, you can’t afford to miss the Goodbye Emma Jo. The film opens in the asphalt
new Russell/Holmes novel by Laurie R. King. In wake of a red VW pulling up to a gravestone. Told
The Moor, partners in crime detection Mary Russell initially in recollections, we witness a scene of grief
and Sherlock Holmes return to the scene of “The and anger interspersed with sexual flashbacks. The
Hound of the Baskervilles,” Devonshire, England, woman is remembering her dead girlfriend and talk-
where they investigate another ancient family curse. ing aloud to a tombstone — something about how the
I hate it that independent, hard-headed, feminist pain never goes away. She leaves. Her car won’t start
Russell is married to Holmes, but it certainly won’t and a cute girl named Haley in yard work garb saves
stop me from scarfing up King’s wonderful adven- the day. Crying Girl is rude, but Haley offers her a
tures. ($23.95 cl, 0-312-16934-5, St. Martin’s.) King’s foldout couch to sleep on anyway and a mechanic
A Letter of Mary, which manages to combine friend to fix her car. Crying Girl makes it known she’s
Russell and Holmes, biblical archaeology, and femi- only saying yes because she has no other options.
nism, is now available in paper from Bantam. ($5.99, What ensues is a rather cliché transformation from
0-553-57780-8.) animosity to sexual tension. Like most erotic films, the
Another sleuthing duo featuring a feminist- story itself is forgettable, but this one is different in
before-her-time, Harriet Vane and Lord Peter Wimsey, that the sex scenes are, as the women at Wolfe told me,
are brought back to life in Thrones, Dominations by what lesbians have been asking for. Gone are the soft
Dorothy L. Sayers and Jill Paton Walsh. The catalogue focus cheesy gazes and suggestively warm skin-on-
says Walsh worked from Sayers’ outline to complete skin nuances. Instead, they are traded for some
Harriet and Lord Peter’s final adventure, set in 1939. real-to-life dirty (in a good way) sex scenes as Crying
Finishing an unfinished manuscript is a tricky busi- Girl learns to let go of the past and embrace someone
ness, but Booker finalist Walsh seems like a good new. $29.95. Available from Wolfe Video.
choice for the job. Many of us have been longing for
more Sayers mysteries for years, and this is as close as Liz Wermcrantz is a twenty-something feminist book-
weS're tlikel.y to geMt. $23.a95 rcl, 0t-31i2-1n8196-’5,s Fe.br uar y,o seller and writer with a minor obsession with People
magazine and other forms of cheesy pop culture. o
Winter 1998 94
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
By Laura Quilter/The Exploratorium, CA and novel was chosen from a field of nearly a thousand
Heather Whipple/Swarthmore College Library, PA manuscripts submitted from Australia, Germany,
Qatar, the U.K., and the U.S. Hopkinson, who grew up
You'll notice a strong skew in the column this in Jamaica, Guyana and Canada, says of this novel, “I
month — due to Laura's 2,000-mile move and the use Afro-Caribbean spirituality, oral history, culture
logistics of getting on publishers’ mailing lists, our and language in my stories but place my characters
information sources are still coming in, and Tor is within contemporary fantasy. I see it as subverting the
extremely well represented this time. While it’s true genre, Which speaks so much about the experience of
that Tor publishes many good feminist fantasy and being alienated, but contains so little writing by alien-
science fiction authors, we promise to include more ated people themselves.” $12.99 pb, 0446674338, July,
titles from other publishers next time. Warner Aspect.
If you're including one SF title in your Black
History Month and Women’s History Month displays,
make it Octavia Butler’s alternate history /time travel
novel Kindred ($13 tp, 0-8070-8305-4, Beacon) in
which a contemporary African American woman DUFOUR
inexplicably finds herself moving back and forth Back in print: Anna Kavan’s Ice ($21 tp, 0-7206-
between the present and the past — where she is a 1029-X, Peter Owen). First published in 1967, this
slave, owned by the white man who is also one of classic surreal novel by the respected cult writer
her ancestors. Kavan takes place in a grim post-holocaust future.
Or try Jewelle Gomez’ The Gilda Stories, an The world does not end by fire, but by ice — great
elegant, sensual, and nautralistic fantasy. Gilda, a sheets and walls of ice that accompany a nuclear
Black vampire seeking community, travels from winter. Two men seek a young woman in this grim
Southern slavery to environmental devastation 200 world. Kavan wrote a number of books, but feminist
years later. $9.95 pb, 0-932379-94-X; $20.95 cl, -95-8, SF readers will be particularly interested in this one.
Firebrand. Distributed in the U.S. by DuFour Editions, Chester
You may also want to consider Tananarive Springs PA 19425; 610-458-5005.
Due’s taut, intricate, and psychologically compel-
ling first thriller, The Between ($12.50 tp, GRIFFIN (ST. MARTIN’S)
0-06-092726-7, Harper), a well-plotted, African Literally a perennial favorite, this tenth annual
American work of horror and the supernatural set in edition of The Year’s Best Fantasy and Horror ($17.95
Miami, and her second, My Soul to Keep ($24 cl, tp, 0-312-15701-0), edited of course by Ellen Datlow
0-06-018742-5, Harper). and Terri Windling, is a great source for wonderful
And be sure to watch out for the July publication stories from new as well as well-known authors. This
of Nalo Hopkinson’s Brown Girl in the Ring, the year’s collection includes stories by Angela Carter,
winner of Warner Aspect’s Novel Contest for new and Gabriel Garcia Marquez, Patricia McKillip, and Jane
unpublished SF/fantasy novelists. Hopkinson’s Yolen. Note: A printing error dropped two manuscript
95 Winter 1998
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
pages from Tanith Lee’s story (p. 47). To get the miss- immortality, and encounters with sea monsters. Named
ing text, send your mailing address to Gordon Van a 1997 Best Book of the Year by Publishers Weekly.
Gelder, St. Martin’s Press, 175 Fifth Ave, New York NY
10010 or email (gordonvangelder@stmartins.com). SHAMBHALA
SF fans will be interested to know that Ursula K.
HEINEMANN Le Guin has just completed a new translation (with
Prolific author Melissa Scott shares her experi- the assistance of J.P. Seaton) of Lao Tzu’s Tao Te
ence and teaching skills in Concerning the Heavens: Ching: A Book About the Way and the Power of the
Creating the Science Fiction Novel ($16.95 tp, 0-435- Way ($20 cl, 1-57062-333-3). Le Guin is — since Judith
07008-8). This handbook for writers emphasizes the Merril’s passing — the grande dame of SF, and any-
importance of good writing for all genres but also thing by her is of great interest. But the Tao Te Ching
guides the novice science fiction author through real- informs all of her work, and such classics as the Earth-
istic world-building. Characterizing science fiction as sea trilogy are truly reflective of Le Guin’s Taoist
the one genre based on the premise that change hap- philosophies. Additionally, Le Guin has accom-
pens, Scott helps writers bring their own visions of plished this translation with a full feminist
other worlds to vivid realization. consciousness, and looked carefully at the use of pro-
nouns and gender-specific language. As Le Guin said:
“I wanted this version to be inviting to my half of the
human race.”
KNOPF TOR
Like all great children’s books, The Golden Catherine Asaro’s The Last Hawk ($25.95 cl,
Compass ($20 cl, 0-679-87924-2; $5.99 mm, 0-312-86044-7) is a sequel to Primary Inversion ($5.99
0345413350, Ballantine) and The Subtle Knife ($20 cl, mm, (0-812-55023-4) and Catch the Lightning ($5.99
0-679-87925-0) by Philip Pullman are gripping and mm, 0-812-55102-8) that also stands on its own.
satiSFying reads for adults, too. Not for the faint of Asaro’s writing is clean, and the story is fascinating.
heart, these books are well worth the agony of having An heir from the Skolian Empire crashes on a restricted
to wait for the concluding volume to be published world; he initially struggles to leave but eventually his
(also known as the His Dark Materials trilogy). life becomes entwined with the lives of the women
Eleven-year-old Lyra journeys through her world and who rule the world. Yes, this world is a matriarchy, and
into other worlds, accompanied by her “daemon,” an there is both humor and pleasure to be found in seeing
external manifestation of her own self that charmingly the roles reversed. Asaro also weaves nano- and
exists in shapeshifting animal forms. Lyra is on a quest biotechnologies and artificial intelligence into the plot,
she doesn’t quite understand — and can only survive so there's plenty of fodder for those who like to specu-
by not knowing what lies ahead. Already winning late about the future of technology. Central to the plot
prizes and commendations in the U.K. and the U.S., and the world’s society is a “dice” game. As Kelwin’s
these books are intense, absorbing, suspenseful “marriages” give him greater and greater influence in
fantasy with wonderful cover art. The Subtle Knife the game, he begins to understand the patterns that
is one of Publishers Weekly's best books of the year for support and maintain the society he has come to love.
1997. Highly recommended. Highly recommended.
A new Marian Zimmer Bradley (MZB) book is
POCKET BOOKS always received gratefully by her devoted fans, and
With advance praise from Ursula K. Le Guin, Jean Gravelight ($24.95 cl, 0-312-86503-1) should be no
Auel, Nicola Griffith, and Robin McKinley, The Moon exception. A companion novel to Witchlight ($13.95
and the Sun ($23 cl, 0-671-56765-9) by Vonda McIntyre tp, 0-312-85831-0, St. Martins) and Ghostlight ($22.95
is a vibrant alternate history of 17th-century France. c], 0-312-85881-7), this third in MZB’s contemporary
Historical and fictional characters intermingļle in a tale fantasy series will be as sought after as all other MZB
of science or “natural philosophy,” the search for titles. Sinah Dellon’s search to uncover the mysteries
Winter 1998 96
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
of her own past lead her to her own psychic powers, Kress has once again told a fascinating story with
conflicts with parapsychology researchers, and a marvelous scientific and human observation.
struggle to escape from evil paranormal forces. The new Tanith Lee novel, Red Unicorn ($20.95 cl,
Molly Gloss, who won the 1996 Whiting Writer's 0-312-86265-2), is the third in a young adult SF trilogy.
Award, recently published the wonderful The Tanaquil, daughter of a sorceress, this time visits an
Dazzle of Day ($21.95, cl, 0-312-86336-5). The book is alternate universe where she must struggle with her
broadly staged in the not-too-far future, when Earth's own double. Tanith Lee’s sensual dark writing has
environmental problems seem not-solvable. A group made her very popular among both adults and youth.
of Quakers have constructed a balanced
ecosystem in a torus-shaped vessel, and Steph aSn i0e- 3A12. - 8S6m3i5t2h-'7s) Olotohkesr aNta tau r ne o t($-t1o3o.9-5f a rtp,
plan to travel to another world to begin | future, where people have chosen to
anew. The mass of the book takes place | make what community they can here
toward the end of the first leg of their _| on earth. Initially the reader is drawn
journey, when they have encountered a into a world that seems almost whole
human-habitable planet. Gloss leads us ` and slowly realizes how much has
into the complex lives of a number of changed and disintegrated. The fright-
related people as they struggle to make ening truths of what has happened
their lives and their choices meaning- with the environment and human soci-
ful. A Quaker sensibility informs the | ety are slowly revealed, often in
entire novel, and just as decisions are __ poignant flashes such as the normalcy
arrived at by a process of statements of one character's near-illiteracy. As we
and pauses for reflection, so too is this understand more and more of what has
novel paced. Utterly realistic in its por- | happened to the world, the effects on
trayal of how humans interact and the children come into greater and
live, this book was a very great pleas- greater focus. And eventually we realize
ure to read. that this novel is not about the past, and
In Nancy Kress’ Maximum Light what has happened to humans, but the
($22.95 c], 0-312-86535-X) the future of future, and what is happening. As with
the human species is once again at much of the best SF, here are lots of inter-
stake. Kress looks at two current scien- esting ideas about all kinds of things:
tific issues: the decline in human J community, violence, what makes us
sperm, possibly caused by the complex of chemicals human, how people live. And for those of
and synthetic hormones which humans produce in us interested in the possibilities of human sexual
such overabundance, and the fear people have of arrangements, Smith’s characters also explore
genetic manipulation and cloning. Kress extrapolates polyamory and lesbian relationships. Smith’s writing
from these trends to arrive in a surprising but frighten- is dreamlike, almost hallucinatory, and Other Nature
ingly possible future: one in which 80% of the world is is an unforgettable book.
sterile. Far from overpopulation being a problem, Patricia Wrede has also released a sequel for
people are doing almost anything to get a baby in a young adults, The Magician’s Ward ($22.95 cl, 0-312-
world with severe legal restrictions. Intense regulation 85369-6). In a Regency England setting, a young
has prevented research on human cloning. Kress has woman works with magic and deals with high society.
woven a mystery, which brings together the lives of an Chelsea Quinn Yarbro’s Writ in Blood ($26.95
older male scientist, a young female troublemaker, and cl, 0-312-86318-7) is her latest novel about the
a young gay male dancer. No one of these people has centuries-old vampire Count Saint-Germain. This
the answers, but as they work together to solve the book places Saint Germain in Europe on the brink of
mysteries of their own lives, they begin to arrive at World War I. A strong historical novel with a twist,
answers that may relate to the larger problem facing Yaorbrfo’s t alev wiall m be poppuliarr weith t hef boaomnings c.ad re O
the world — the possible extinction of the human race.
Volume 20 Number 5/6 97 Winter 1998
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
a
Ka j)
By Tee A. Corinne mostimportant quality of this book is the freedom she
gives through her words and through the examples,
Living Color: A Writer Paints Her World by offering permission to each person to find the artist in
Natalie Goldberg shines with the same kind of clarity herself. $16.95 pb, 0-553-35489-2, Bantam.
exhibited in her books on writing, Wild Mind and In Cold Starry Night: An Alaska Memoir by
Writing Down the Bones. She writes, “I was delighted Claire Fejes, the artist writes, “Never in my dreams
one day to paint an adobe house blue. Stepping had I wanted to go to Alaska.... My burning desire was
through the belief that I must paint mud brown, I to be an artist. I had longed to share a studio loft in
experienced an explosion of energy and freedom. It downtown Manhattan.” In 1946 Fejes went to Alaska
was as though that blue paint were a sword slashing to join her husband and stayed to become one of
through illusion, bringing me into direct connection Alaska’s most well-known artists. Cold Starry Night,
with the house’s essence. Objects began to dance the candidly told story of her first few years, includes
unhinged from their proper pigment.” She writes of delightful line drawings and rich word pictures of
her own art journey, of her response to other artists, people she encountered. $19.95 pb, 0-945397-55-0,
and what she learns of how they work. Perhaps the Epicenter Press.
Nuns As Artists: The Visual Culture of a Medie-
val Convent by Jeffrey F. Hamburger is a scholarly
and fascinating study of devotional imagery pro-
duced in Germany around 1500. The pictures,
reproduced in black and white and in color, are intri-
cately constructed and well served by the text. $55 cl,
0-520-20386-0, University of California Press.
The Story of Rose O'Neill: An Autobiography,
edited by Miriam Formanek-Brunell, presents the life
of a woman (1874-1944) who became wealthy
initially through her illustrations, then through the
creation and marketing of the immensely popular
Kewpie dolls. She exhibited in galleries and pub-
lished four novels and one book of poetry. O'Neill’s
voice draws the reader into her story and charms her
in much the same way she must have charmed her
contemporaries. $24.95 cl, 0-8262-1106-2, University
of Missouri Press.
A descriptive subtitle for Cindy Sherman’s self-
portraits might be “recreating myself as someone I'm
not.” For the past twenty years she has photographed
See Art Books, page 100.
Winter 1998 98
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
HU
By Roz Warren
Laugh Lines Press
These are good times to be a
women’s humor fan. There’s a wealth of
great new books and recordings, with
more in the pipeline.
Honey, Hush! An Anthology of
African American Women’s Humor is a
gloriously comprehensive and deliciously
subversive collection of wit and wisdom,
poetry and prose, cartoons and jokes,
song lyrics and comedy routine excerpts, 4y
all selected for and presented to the reader
by editor Daryl Cumber Dance (Shuckin’
and Jivin’), who truly knows her stuff (and who herself From Lap Dancing for Mommy by Erica Lopez (Seal Press)
happens to be a good, funny writer). Included in this each artist. The focus is primarily on story-telling (i.e.,
680-page treasure are Alice Walker, Moms Mabley, a multi-page format rather than single panel or four
Whoopi Goldberg, Audre Lorde, Rita Dove, Maya An- panel) and the material ranges from bleak to hilarious.
gelou, Zora Neale Hurston, Barbara Brandon, and Highlights include Annie Lawson’s “The Xylophone”
many others. There are 287 selections in all, covering — a hilarious and bawdy send-up of the movie The
200 years of material. Each section (the material is Piano in which a xylophone stands in for the piano,
arranged topically) is illuminated by a readable and and a stuffed bear named Sooty stands in for Harvey
well-informed introduction, and there’s a terrific fore- Keitel; Kate Charlesworth’s advice-mongering
word by Nikki Giovanni. As a (former) women’s “Agony Dyke;” and Grizelda Grizlingham’s “The
humor anthologizer myself, I am awed (and thrilled Story of Doris Gray and Her Sanitary Towel Shop” —
and moved and delighted) by what Dance has accom- the heartening saga of a young woman who turns her
plished with this book. You will be too. $30 cl, obsession with sanitary napkins into a thriving finan-
0-393-04557-9, Norton. cial empire. Women Out of Line is a must for anybody
Women Out of Line collects the work of 15 who loves women’s comics or is at all curious about
talented women cartoonists currently working in the what creative women across the pond are up to. $16.95
U.K. An oversized book with a full-color cover and pb, 0-86166-128-1. Carol Bennett, 10 Acklam Road,
glossy pages, W.O.O.L. includes a selection of mate- London W10 5QZ. Distributed in the U.S. by Last
rial by, and a brief autobiographical statement from, Gasp; 415-824-6636.
99 Winter 1998
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Roz Chast's new book, Childproof: Cartoons sion, lesbians who don’t carry purses, lesbians who
About Parents and Children collects delightfully squash bugs, heckling the 700 Club, and more.
acerbic, reality-based cartoons that $15.95, 06442-3772-2.
do not sugar-coat the parenting Finally, Margaret Cho: Drunk With
experience. Highlights include an Power brings us the kind of humor by the
album of “Blues for Babies” with star of the now-defunct sitcom “All Ameri-
tunes like “Why Can't I Stand?” can Girl” that you'd never find on network
and “Sick of All My Toys,” as well television. Free-wheeling and vulgar, the
as an advertisement for a realistic | show includes blow-job jokes, butt jokes,
“family- style” restaurant whose ball jokes, bowel-movement jokes, fat
menu includes “All You Can jokes, vagina-washing jokes, and jokes
Throw At Your Sister or Brother” about uncircumsized weenies, as well as
and “All You Can Order and Then more thoughtful material about racism.
Not Take One Single Bite Of.” Not for the easily offended. $15.95,
$15.95, 0-7868-6244-0, Hyperion. | 06442-3770-2.
Light years away from Chast but Uproar Entertainment, 3663 Twin
| just as clever is Erica Lopez’ Lap Lake Ridge, Westlake Village CA 91361;
Dancing For Mommy: Tender 818-889-3757. Available from Golden-
Stories of Disgust, Blame and Inspi- rod and Ladyslipper. O
ration, a stream-of-consciousness |} -
series of riffs on topics ranging from
lesbian literature and home-made menstrual pads to Art, continued from page 98.
bad mothering and gay porn, all told with high- herself in a variety of guises and styles. Images from
energy graphics and witty bits of prose, and this period are gathered in Cindy Sherman:
frequently interrupted by a wide variety of cartoon Retrospective with essays by Amanda Cruz, Elizabeth
penises. I particularly enjoyed the blurb on the book’s A.T. Smith, and Amelia Jones. The book ends with a
back cover in which “a Catherine Deveuve imper- series Of still lifes she created in answer to the question,
sonator” writes “I think your title makes people think “What could I possibly do when I want to stop using
I'm a sexy French lesbian, so I will have to sue you.” myself and don’t want ‘other people’ in the photo?”
$14 pb, 1-878067-96-6, Seal Press. The book is a collection of odd, bizarre, wonderfully
creative images. $34.95 pb, 0-500-27987-X, Thames
In another great development for laughter-loving and Hudson. Distributed by W.W. Norton.
women, Uproar Entertainment has begun recording
live shows by popular lesbian and gay comedians and
making them available on compact disc. Marga
Gomez: Hung Like A Fly showcases the work of this
wise and funny Latina lesbian, whose politically Women in Italian Renaissance Art: Gender,
astute comedy specializes in mocking people and Representation, Identity by Paola Tinagli, although
political groups who take themselves too seriously. highly intellectual, is very inviting. It includes
(Her bit about “The Serious People’s Collective” will portraits, nudes, and a section on the work of painter
have you howling.) Topics covered include gay pride Sofonisba Anguissola. $19.95 pb, 0-7190-4054-X;
marches, the politics of pockets, and flying with a $59.95 cl, -4053-1, St. Martin’s Press.
woman pilot. $15.95, 06442-3776-2. I haven't yet seen a copy, but read recently that
Suzanne Westenhoefer: Nothing In My Closet Portraits, photographs by Mary Ellen Mark, text by
But My Clothes presents the enjoyable, light-hearted Mary Panzer, is now available. Mark is one of our best
wit of a gorgeous lesbian famous for being the first known senior photojournalists and her work is always
lesbian comic to hone her act in straight comedy complex and compelling. $24.95 cl, 156098720-0,
clubs, and includes material about lesbians on televi- Smithsonian Institution Press; 800-782-4612. O
Winter 1998 100 Volume 20 Number 5/6
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Compiled by Jenn Tust well as the invaluable “How to Tell if There Are Too
Editor's Note: This is a between-seasons issue so this Many Coffee Shops In Your Neighborhood.” Isabella
column, normally one of the highlights of FBN, lists only a Bannerman spots the absurdities of urban life and
few titles. Our Spring Announcements Issue will feature turns them into wonderful cartoons that make you
all the Winter/Spring books from the feminist presses. want to re-examine the difference between failure and
GIRL PRESS success to see which is funnier. $8.95 pb, 1-889594-04-0,
Cool Women is the ultimate book of role models M PAa r c 1h 9. 0 0L 4a . u g Ah v a iL li an be les fP rr oe mss, BP PO . —Bo Lx a u g25 h9 , L iB na el sa PC ry en sswyd
for girls, with femme fatales, heroines, and trouble-
makers from all walks. Think Amelia Earhart, Mary NAIAD PRESS
Richards, and Cleopatra all in one place and you've The Naiad Press celebrates its 25th anniversary as
got the right idea. Breezy writing and high design the oldest and largest lesbian publishing company by
make it all fun and accessible. A girl reading Cool going online. Web site architect Linda Hill (Never Say
Women will come away thinking that Madame Never and Class Reunion) has donated her skills to
Curie was brilliant, sure, but also that Madame
Curie rocked. One dollar from the sale of each copy is
being donated to Girls Inc. $19.95 cl, spiral-bound,
0-9659754-0-1, March.
40%. Girl Press, 8273 Clinton, Los Angeles CA
90048; 213-651-0880, email (girls@girlpress.com), Web
(www.girlpress .com). Distributed by LPC Group.
—Girl Press
LAUGH LINES PRESS
Pacifists in Bomber Jackets: Cartoons by
Isabella Bannerman offers funny, feminist single-
panel cartoons about contemporary life by popular
cartoonist Isabella Bannerman, whose work has
appeared everywhere from Ms. to The Funny Times to
The New York Times. Bannerman, editor of the feminist TEN
comic book anthology series Girl Talk, is especially JI
good at portraying the ups and downs of the contem- |
porary career woman, as well as mocking cell phones,
rollerblades, videocams, the Internet, and the people
who love them. Yov'll enjoy her wry take on topics
ranging from “Telephone Sex in New England” and
“Evolution of a Backpack” to “The Nihilist Deli,” as Carto o inn Bby om I bs ea rb e l Jla a c kB ea tn sn e (r Lm aua gn h, li nfr eso m P r P esa sc )ifists
Volume 20 Number 5/6 101 Winter 1998
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
making this possible for us. Beginning January 1, you rollerblades her way between them all. $11.95 pb,
can browse our entire catalog at (www.naiad 1-56280-205-4, February.
press.com). Building on the success of First Impressions, Second
We promise to do it well and to keep the site Fiddle, and Third Degree, Kate Calloway scores again
updated and to continually remind our customers with the spellbinding Fourth Down, the fourth
where their stores are. Stores who have email should Cassidy James mystery. Under different circum-
let us know and provide your store name and your stances, a week at a rustic lesbian retreat would
email address on a 3x5 card. undoubtedly bring much needed rest and tranquillity.
But unless she can track down a ruthless killer, PJI.
Cassidy James may be headed for another sort of peace
and quiet — the kind that comes with a headstone!
In Possessions, the second Maris Middleton mys- Also, be sure to prepare your mystery fans for more
tery, a sadistic serial killer is on the loose, and Cassidy James excitement in the soon-to-be-released
independent crime scene specialist Maris Middleton Fifth Wheel. $11.95 pb, 1-56280-193-7, March.
must follow the bloodstained trail into the dark A Moments Indiscretion is the latest erotic
recesses Of the killer’s mind — a journey that endan- romance from the pen of Peggy J. Herring, author of
gers her life and her dearest love. As in her bestselling Once More with Feeling, Love's Harvest, and Hot Check.
debut novel, Devil's Leg Crossing, professional criminal- After a series of disastrous relationships, advertising
ist Kaye Davis draws on her 20 years of experience in executive Jackie Knovac vows never to let another
evidence analysis and crime scene investigation for the woman close enough to hurt her. No one can break
tale’s stark realism. $11.95 pb, 1-56280-192-9, February. through Jackie's emotional barriers — not even hand-
Author of the romantic bestsellers, Old Ties and some handywoman D.J., whose strong and capable
The Wish List, Saxon Bennett is at the top of her form hands could certainly fix a lot more than Jackie’s
in the sweet, sexy novel, A Question of Love. The faucets. But when a mysterious beauty walks into her
question seems to be, “Why settle for the run-of-the- office, Jackie’s fears begin to vanish in the power of the
mill romantic triangle when you can have a delicious woman's sensuous charm. Is Jackie opening herself to
rectangle?” Bennett takes dyke drama to new heights a world of hope and passion, or a nightmare of betrayal
in this compelling tale of a beautiful, brainy grad and shattered dreams? $11.95 pb, 1-56280-194-5, March.
student, her heartbroken best friend, her seductive In Penny Hayes’ captivating City Lights,
professor, and the flamboyant tomboy sculptor who Country Candles, a 102-year-old great-great
Winter 1998
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
grandmother remembers the extraordinary women talented Latina writers working in the United States
she has loved in her lifetime. Women like Honora, the today. Each contributor offers insights into the ways
beautiful spouse of a distinguished army officer; that life and craft are entwined. Can one write great
Louisa, the faithful wife of a fundamentalist minister; works in the English language even if Spanish is the
Helena, the budding young artist from a prominent mother tongue? Can a writer hone her craft both in
family; and Sam, the runaway farm girl who passed English and Spanish? What does it mean to be a
as a man. Penny Hayes is the beloved author of the self-taught writer? Honestly and openly, these writers
historical romances The Long Trail, Yellowthroat, discuss the historical, linguistic, political, economic,
Montana Feathers, Grassy Flats, Kathleen O'Donald, and and cultural realities that have shaped them as
Now and Then. $11.95 pb, 1-56280-195-3, March. women and as writers of color in the United States.
Naiad books are available from the publisher and $16.95 pb, 0-943219-14-0. 40% for 5+. Third Woman
distributed by BP, Login/InBook, Ingram, et al. The Press, PO Box 11187, Berkeley CA 94712; 510-525-7935,
Naiad Press, PO Box 10543, Tallahassee FL 32302; fax 510-525-8236. Distributed by Login/Women-
800-533-1973. —HNaiad Press source and available from BP and SPD.
—Third Woman Press
NAIAD VIDEO
Stonewall. Puts a 90s spin on a 60s story, but does
it well. ($19.95, 94 min.) Regular video discount. Order Small Press Distributors
direct from Naiad Press, PO Box 10543, Tallahassee FL
32302; 850-539-5965. —Naiad Press Alamo Square Distributors
PO Box 14543, San Francisco CA 94114
PRIDE PUBLICATIONS 415-863-7410, fax 415-863-7456
sS Dlh e re e p i p/I sT I /n h H Me t oy hr n ee eLa s yo so avn ;me s r e , a i nn bb dey d1 / 0 A N0 #n0 ak g 1 eeR 8dlae .; a s C #o Ton 8 hss .t ea ,Y M r o eyiu n c f iM l su ini /dg ge Nh e: rt o s# / T 1 h p. i rn Wk ine ce/This 7 8B 9 0o 0 0o 0 -k 9 p 9Ee 9o d -p g 4l 6ee w 5 0 a( ,tB e P fr) a xD r 5iv 10e, - 6 3O 2a -k 1l 2a 8n 1d CA 94621
charming. This unconventional book of erotica offers Consortium
spicy little retorts that can get any lover excited. Gift- 1045 Westgate Drive, St. Paul MN 55114
book size. $10.95 pb, 1-886383-21-9. 50%. Pride 800-283-3572, fax 612-221-0124
Publications, PO Box 148, Radnor OH 46033. Distrib-
uted by BP, Stilone/ Bulldog (Australia). —JT Koen/Inland (Koen)
10 Twosome Drive, Moorestown NJ 08057
800-257-8481, fax 609-727-6914
THIRD WOMAN PRESS LPC Group (InBook/Login Trade/Womensource)
of es sM ayás sc , a r mas a n e yd i t pe rd e v b ioy u s lL yu c h una p uC bo lr ip shi. e dT , h i bs y c o sl ul ce hction 81 04 03 -6 2 4 W 3-e 0s 1t 3 8 R , a fn ad xo l p 8h 0 0 -S 3t 3r 4e -e 3t 8, 9 2Chicago IL 60607
major Latina writers as Julia Alvarez, Ana Castillo, Publishers Group West (PGW)
Sandra Cisneros, Helena María Viramontes, Cherríe Box 8843, Emeryville CA 94662
Moraga as well as other lesser-known, yet influential 800-788-3123, fax 510-658-1834
contemporary writers, brings together the most
103 Winter 1998
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Paris Was a Woman. A video portrait of the
creative community of women writers, artists,
photographers, and editors who flocked to the Left
Bank in Paris between the World Wars, when the
“City of Lights” was the world’s undisputed cultural
capital. $59.95, 75 min.
Coming down to sell through in January and
February: Bastard Out of Carolina. America’s most
SARAH ALDRIDGE talked about film based on the book by noted lesbian
author, Dorothy Allison. A powerful and moving
DOES IT AGAIN! story of one woman's passionate resolve — unforget-
tably affecting. 101 min.
Best-selling writer, Sarah Aldridge hits us with her Edith Ann Doll. The Edith Ann doll is based on
best shot, Nina In The Wilderness, now available in the character by Lily Tomlin and Jane Wagner. A kid
hard cover and soft cover. on the cutting edge of childhood, she’s a spirited little
Nina in the Wilderness (Hard cover) girl tackling the challenges of childhood in the 90s.
ISBN: 0-9646648-4-4 .......21.2:zrrazretnedaeaeneas $18.00 Now the star of her own animated television show,
Nina in the Wilderness (Soft cover) Edith Ann tells it like it is. And that’s the truth! Eleven
Am I aS nB thN a:20-9646648-38-625:... 10ed $11.95 inches tall. $29.95.
ISBN: 0-9646648:0-1:.......... «<15 $10.95 Xena & Gabrielle Hot Tub Photo. The picture
Ma gIdSalBenNa: 0-96486648-1-X ace $9.95 #s 1a 1y 32s 5 . it all! Exclusive photo for our Xena fans. $10,
Misfortune’s Friend Wolfe Video, PO Box 64, New Almaden CA
ISBN: 0-9646648-2-8 ..:.......se eeens $8.95 95042; 408-268-6782, fax 408-268-9449, Web
Other great books by Sarah Aldridge: (www.wolfevideo.com). — Wolfe Video
Michaela All True Lovers
A Flight of Angels Cytherea'’s Breath
Keep To Me Stranger Tottie
Madame Aurora The Latecomer
The Nesting Place WOMAN'S INSTITUTE FOR
CONTINUING JEWISH EDUCATION
A&M Books A literary celebration of twenty years of feminist
P.O. Box 2 P83 h, o n R e:e h 1o -b 8o 0t 0h - 4 8B 9e -a 7c 6h 6, 2 DE 19971 J Exew cei ls lh en ce ed u ic na t i Eo dn u ci an t i oS na n f oD ri e g Jo e, w iT sh he WSh oa mb eb nat i sS e r aies:
thought-provoking and engaging collection of essays
WOLFE VIDEO by leading women scholars across the country who
Goodbye Emma Jo. Lush. Sensual. Intriguing. have participated in the Women’s Institute for
This is an unabashed story of erotic love and passion. Continuing Jewish Education. Each contributor effec-
Alex is mourning the loss of her beautiful Emma Jo on tively turns traditional masculine interpretations of
what would have been their anniversary. She has the Bible and women’s place in Jewish history upside
never felt more angry and alone; her day only gets down, compelling us to reconceptualize women from
worse when her car breaks down. Stranded, she is Eve to our own mothers — and, inevitably, ourselves.
rescued by Haley, a gorgeous local, who offers her a By turns academic, soul searching, and humorous, The
place to spend the night. “Come on, I'm not going to Shabbat Series offers readers a refreshing view of
bite,” promises Haley, yet Alex is wary. These two Jewish women as we head into the next millennium.
absolutely stunning women turn a disastrous chain of $12.95 pb, 1-889454-50-8. 40%. Woman's Institute for
events into a series of heightened sexual interludes, Continuing Jewish Education, 4126 Executive Drive,
and it’s more than a pleasure to watch them unfold. La Jolla CA 92037; 619-442-2666.
$29.95, 40 min. — Woman's Institute for Continuing Jewish Education O
Winter 1998 104
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
By Jenn Tust fax 212-995-0720, email (sevenstories@earthlink.net).
Distributed by PGW in the U.S., Hushion House in
Letters to a Young Feminist by Phyllis Chesler is Canada, and Turnaround by U.K. Also available from
a call-to-action from a leading revolutionary of femi- Ingram and B&T.
nism’s Second Wave to the generation of feminists —
women and men — emerging today. Chesler weaves Dragon Ladies: Asian American Feminists
her personal experience with the history of the move- Breathe Fire showcases the growing politicization of
ment to assess the accomplishments and failures of Asian American women and this emerging feminist
her era as she exhorts the next generation to take on movement. Prominent writers, artists, and activists
what remains to be done. She discusses the basic draw on a wealth of personal experience and political
tenets of feminism, explains feminism’s relevance to a analysis to address issues of immigration, work,
generation that is in danger of taking it for granted, health, domestic violence, sexuality, and the media.
and steers this generation toward reclaiming femi- They use the power of their unique political perspec-
nism for itself. Chesler also examines sisterhood, sex, tives and cultural backgrounds to transform the
gender issues in education, families and motherhood, landscape of race, class, and gender in the United
courage, resistance to the status quo, feminist hero- States. Edited by Sonia Shah, preface by Yuri Kochi-
ism, work, and the economics of power. $18 cl, yama, foreword by Karin Aguilar-San Juan. $17 pb,
1-56858-093-2, Four Walls Eight Windows. 0-89608-575-9.
In Glass Ceilings and Bottomless Pits:
Burma’s pro-democracy leader, Nobel Laureate Women’s Work, Women’s Poverty Randy Albelda
Aung San Suu Kyi, lived under house arrest for six and Chris Tilly combine charts, graphs, and statistics
years. In The Voice of Hope, cowritten
with Alan Clements, she converses for the S
first time since her release about her life as Na N
a Buddhist, the use of non-violence and We
civil disobedience in pursuit of democracy,
women’s rights, truth and reconciliation, | -a /
and offers the global community an impas-
sioned call to action. Aung San Suu Kyi
continues to struggle for democracy and to
speak defiantly: “Nothing has changed
since my release... Let the world know that
we are still prisoners in our own country.”
First English-language edition. $24.95 cl,
1-888363-50-9. 30% for 5-19; 40% for 20+.
Seven Stories Press, 632 Broadway, 7th
Floor, New York NY 10012; 212-995-0908,
Volume 20 Number 5/6 105 Winter 1998
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
BREREEEEEEEREEEEEEEEREREEEREEEERER
people are not thinkers, and affirms the culture that
springs up, beautiful and honest, from this society's
true base. Kadi explores subjects ranging from country
music to cultural appropriation, from working-class
ideals to Disney icons. $14 pb, 0-89608-547-3.
South End Press, 116 Saint Botolph Street, Boston
MA 02115; 800-533-8478. Available from BP.
In Almost Americans: A Quest for Dignity
Patricia Justiniani McReynolds, born of a Filipino
father and a Norwegian mother, tells her story of
growing up in California when racism was institu-
tionalized into the miscegenation laws that denied the
legitimacy of both her parents’ marriage and her own
birth. Furthermore, because the Philippines was a
colony of the United States, it was not possible for her
father to obtain citizenship despite his long residency.
AL GUIDE v O “In the panorama of today’s ethnic America, Almost
Americans emerges as an ever-evolving tale of the
multicultural family’s quest for home and belonging.
Seen through the eyes of the author, America becomes
not so much a landscape as a yearned-for ideal.... An
“Who needs to live in a three-ring important book in an age where the face of America
circus? After all, you got rid of the clown.” is constantly shifting, developing, and most poign-
G D ISir Bsa t Nn r v i bi 0l u -l te 9e- 6M d 5 8o 7bo 5r y 2e - 0 BP -o 2u o b k l $pi 1c ea 3ot .p 9io l 5en s sa on fd t I cn og vr ea rm a 1 Sn - a8t n7ly 8 t, 6 a 1 0b -l F6en 4 e-d 3i .n N g R. M” e d — 8CT r 7h a 5e n 0 eF 5 i ;Bl i op oi 5n k 0o s, 5 - E 2 9x 0p 80r 8 8e -s s R 7. o 0 s 7$ i1 n 06 a ,. ,9 5 S 8 u 0p itb 0e, - 9B 2, 2-3392.
BEREEEEEREEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEREEE Distributed by Consortium.
with analysis of our economic system and offer an Elizabeth Cox’ novel Night Talk addresses issues
agenda to reduce poverty in America. “This extraor- of friendship and race. Evie is white and Janey Louise
dinarily lucid book demonstrates that women from is Black and, in the Deep South of the fifties, they
all walks of life get the short end of the stick because should never have become friends, but absent fathers
of their gender. From welfare mothers to corporate and circles of love and dependence between their
executives, Albelda and Tilly show how and why the mothers create a powerful bond between the girls.
powers-that-be benefit from scapegoating and Segregation, rape, riots, and family tragedy can’t alter
marginalizing women.” —Professor Mimi Abra- their affection, although the inevitable strains of racial
movitz (Regulating the Lives of Women). $18 pb, injustice, and intolerance routinely cast shadows onto
089608-565-1. their relationship. $23.95 cl, 1-55597-267-5.
Thinking Class: Sketches from á Cultural In Raised in Captivity: Why Does America Fail
Worker by Joanna Kadi provides a personal and Its Children? Lucia Hodgson challenges commonly
analytical look at how oppression by class intersects held misconceptions that, all too often, turn American
with oppression by race, gender, and sexuality. Exam- children into victims and scapegoats and urges read-
ining the elite’s supposed hegemony over intellectual ers to remove the blinders that have allowed adults to
work, Thinking Class rejects the idea that working evade truly progressive reform. Hodgson uses
Winter 1998 106
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
recognizable examples from popular culture and The stories in Fragile Night by Stella Pope
major media cases — Baby Jessica, the Menendez Duarte explore the heart and mind of La Raza, captur-
bothers, Amy Fisher — to make the book accessible, ing characters in life-changing decisions. In “What La
while also pointing out how universally accepted Llorona Knew” a mother shares a tragic secret with her
these destructive myths are. $23.95 cl, 1-55597-261-6. daughter that brings them closer together. In “Once
The poems in Fanny Howe’s One Crossed Out For Pepito” a mother confronts her grief and anger
address the realities of life for one homeless woman while she searches for a way to fulfill her dying son’s
by painting a portrait of May — the girl crossed out, final wish. And, in “Pablo the Penitent,” a philander-
the bad girl, the mad and drunk girl, the jailed and ing husband takes up residence in the town dump as
drugged girl. Howe’s May both is and is not a source penance for his sins. These stories move between
of wisdom — political, spiritual, or otherwise. Nor is humor, lyricism, and tragedy as the characters emerge
she merely broken, nor merely admirable. These stronger from the challenges and risks of life. $13 pb,
poems offer a glimpse of the invisible. $12.95 pb, 0-927534-71-1. Bilingual Review/Press, Hispanic
1-55597-259-4. Research Center, Arizona State University, PO Box
Graywolf Press, 2402 University Avenue #203, 872702, Tempe AZ 85287; 602-965-3867. Available
St. Paul MN 55114; 612-641-0077. Distributed by from BP.
Consortium.
In Karen Tei Yamashita’s novel, Tropic of Orange,
the homeless, gangsters, entrepreneurs, and the Holly-
wood rich collide on a patch of L.A. highway. The In Midnight Sandwiches at the Mariposa
author combines magical realism, noir, hip hop, and Express Beatriz Rivera tells the story of Trish
Chicanismo to present a cataclysmic — and surreal — Izquierdo, a young, upwardly-mobile Latina living on
series of events. “Tropic of Orange is an apocalypse of the edge of reality in a less-than-likely town. “Despite
race, class, and culture, fanned by the media under the serious underpinnings, [Midnight Sandwiches at the
harsh L.A. sun.” $14.95 pb, 1-56689-064-0. Coffee Mariposa Express] grows expansively funny, even
House Press, 27 N. Fourth St. #400, Minneapolis MN quite daft.... A large cast of endearingly self-absorbed
55401; 612-338-0125. Distributed by Consortium. characters struggle along in Rivera’s sure-handed
comedy as private fantasy, public aspiration and hard
“Below the Line is a page-turner, a rich and satis- reality collide.” —Publishers Weekly. $11.95 pb,
fying collection of stories. The language is lean and 1-55885-216-6, Arte Público Press.
elegant, the humor sly, the characters poignant, quirky, Focusing on the persistence of personal memory
and all-too-human, moving with jet-set ease from East amid social upheaval, the powerful tales in The
to West, and back again. A realistic and fascinating Eighth Continent and Other Stories by Alba Ambert
depiction of the unglamorous, penny-pinching world forge an exquisite mosaic that illuminates the fusion
of independent movie-making provides a unique and of intimate and public drama. In rich, evocative lan-
often hilarious backdrop to most of these delightful guage Ambert depicts the cool detachment of
stories. Sara Chin is a smart, welcome new voice in modern life, the impact of the broad political and
contemporary fiction.” —Jessica Hagedorn. $9.95 pb, historical events on individual lives, the thrill of suc-
0-87286-331-X. City Lights Books, 261 Columbus cess in the face of low expectations, and the humor
Avenue, San Francisco CA 94133; 415-362-1901. Avail- that redeems everyday struggles. These stories are
able from BP and Koen. populated with strong and unforgettable characters:
Volume 20 Number 5/6 107 Winter 1998
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
underground revolutionaries confronted with the voice is ardent and passionate, whether mourning the
fear of betrayal; a woman haunted by the massacre brutal dictatorship of her native Chile, or in the open
she witnessed as a child; a linguist, compelled to sensuality of her personal poems. She is a poet greatly
embark on a treacherous journey to an island, who daring and wonderfully passionate.” —Carolyn
finds a language on the verge of extinction; and a Kizer. English/Spanish. $8.95 pb, 1-55885-203-4.
Piñata Books.
challenges our perceptions of truth and insanity. Arte Público Press, University of Houston,
$11.95 pb, 1-55885-217-4, Piñata Books. Houston TX 77204; 713-743-2841. Available from BP.
The terror and beauty that color Death to
Silence/Muerte al silencio, a collection of powerfully E. Luminata, by prize-winning Chilean writer
spare and evocative poetry, bear witness to the dis- Diamela Eltit, is a novel told in prose, vignette, and
quieting circumstances that inspired the poet, who fled poetry. Eltit was a participant, with other artists and
Chile when the military junta led by Augusto Pinochet writers of the time, in collective actions against the
came to power in 1973. “Emma Spúlveda-Pulvirenti’s military government during the Pinochet regime.
“Writing with an impressive language of transform-
ations, Diamela Eltit draws the map of a fascinating,
ambiguous, and for some, terrifying territory that is
true femininity.” —Luisa Valenzuela. Translated by
Ronald Christ, et al. $15 pb, 0-930829-40-9. Lumen,
Murawina Inc., 40 Camino Cielo, Santa Fe NM 87501; 505-988-
An Authentic 9236. Distributed by Consortium.
Aboriginal
Message Sor Juana’s Love Poems: Poemas de Amor by
17th-century nun Sor Juana Inez de la Cruz, trans-
lated by Joan Larkin (author of Housework, Cold River
and co-editor of Gay & Lesbian Poetry in Our Time) and
Jamie Manrique (Twilight at the Equator, Latin Moon in
Manhattan), presents a sampling of de la Cruz’ poems,
some clearly addressed to women, culled from her
extensive body of poetry. Some of the poems are
rooted in Renaissance courtly conventions; others are
startlingly ahead of their time, seemingly modern in
the naked power of the complex sexual feelings they
address. English and Spanish side-by-side in this
“Murawina is the real thing... collection. $12 pb, 0-9651558-6-2. Painted Leaf Press,
34 Aboriginal women from both PO Box 2480, Times Square Station, New York NY
, deeply traditional and urban 10108; phone/fax 212-594-4940. Distributed by
4 communities tell of their LPC/InBook.
__ experiences combatting racism,
sexism, poverty and loss... The Hot Ticket edited by Linnea Due (Joining the
women’s life stories, told in their Tribe: Growing Up Gay and Lesbian in the ‘90s and
own words, fascinate, move and Dagger: On Butch Women) collects sensual writings
from storytellers including Lucy Jane Bledsoe,
Barbara Wilson, Linda Smukler, Jane Futcher, and Jess
E SMITH & TAYLOR Wells. These tales, told from trains, other countries,
ph/fax 408-462-5548 SmiTaylor@a0ol.com ISBN 0-9652539-0-2 i: and the Internet, take readers to both foreign and
$18.95 paper Order: Bookpeople/Moving Books/publisher familiar locales as they tease, torment, and break
boundaries. $11.95 pb, 1-55583-379-9. Alyson
Winter 1998 108
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Publications, 6922 Hollywood Blvd. #1000, Los words could open up your legs one minute and open
Angeles CA 90028; 800-464-4574. Distributed by up your grave the next. Neither did the girl she was
Consortium. hired to find — Mickey loved poetry, read it everyday,
and was just nineteen when life was strangled out of
In The Lesbian Idol: Martina, k.d. and the her. This novel is charged with wit and sauciness, is
Consumption of Lesbian Masculinity Louise Allen rocked by rhythm, and resonates with strength and
suggests that in the relationship between these stars emotion. $14.99 pb, 1-85242-549-0.
and their fans the masculine woman functions as a In Bodies of Work Kathy Acker maps a wide-
powerful signifier of lesbian identity and challenges ranging cultural territory from art and cinema,
the heterosexual notion of sex as determining gender. through politics and bodybuilding to science fiction
Futhermore, the way Martina and k.d. embody an and the city. Here, Acker brings scholarly and pro-
ongoing and lived-out lesbian identity makes their vocative insights to issues and figures including
representation in the mainstream media an unprece- Richard Prince, Kiki Smith, Nayland Blake, the
dented phenomenon that undercuts the primacy of Marquis de Sade, and Hannah Arendt. $16 pb,
heterosexual gender relations. This, Allen explains, 1-85242-425-7.
contrasts with the recent media popularization of Lynn Tillman’s essays in The Broad Picture run
lesbian chic, which she views as a homophobic assimi- the gamut from feline psychology to sex and death,
lation of lesbians under the visual codes of from issues of race and fascism to contemporary
conventional femininity. $18.95 pb, 0-304-33819-2, literature and art. Whatever fascinates and horrifies
Cassell. Order from Books International, PO Box 605, Tillman pops up at odd moments in different guises.
Herndon VA 20172; 800-561-7704, 703-661-1589, fax $16 pb, 1-85242-440-0.
703-661-1501. Also available from BP. Serpent's Tail, 1489 Lincoln Avenue, St. Paul MN
55105; 612-690-0907. Distributed by Consortium.
The Art of Meeting Women: A Guide for Gay
Women by Rhona Sacks, subtitled “How to Meet the
Women You Want to Meet,” covers topics from social
insecurity and self-esteem to where the women are,
making contact, and creating happy relationships. It Lily James’ short fiction in The Great Taste of
offers techniques for “being your best self,” which Straight People offers intellect, humor, and a fast-
will aid women going out to meet, greet, and bond paced style that will satisfy both women and men,
with other lesbians. $14.95 pb, 0-9660698-0-3, Febru- even those who travel at Internet speed. Her characters
ary. 40% for 5+. Free ground shipping with are true believers, obsessed with the desire to organize
prepayment. Slope Books, Van Brunt Station, PO Box relationships, behaviors, and entire lives around ear-
150636, Brooklyn NY 11215; 888-GAYWOMAN, fax nestly illogical systems. In the same way that the
888-355-8872. Internet presents constantly shifting world views and
varying identities, James’ plots move through playful
From Dorothy Porter, one of Australia’s most shifts of scene as the futuristic and feisty characters
innovative writers, comes The Monkey’s Mask, an furrow their brows and bravely attempt to explain it
erotic lesbian mystery novel written in verse, which all. $8.95 pb, 1-57366-034-5. FC2/Black Ice Books, Unit
dives headfirst into murder, manipulation, and the for Contemporary Literature, Campus Box 4241,
consuming power of sex. PJ. Jill Fitzpatrick didn’t Illinois State University, Normal IL 61790. Distributed
know that the poetry scene could be so sleazy, or that by Northwestern University Press.
109 Winter 1998
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
In Open to the Public: New and Collected literacy skills, and includes in-depth and practical
Stories Muriel Spark offers an unexpected cast of medical information. $20 pb, 594 pages, 0-942364-25-
protagonists — faded aristocrats and ghosts, cleaning 2. 40% for 5—24; 42% for 25—99; 44% for 100—499. The
women and blithe murderers, sinister children, a lech- Hesperian Foundation, 1919 Addison Street #304,
erous hanging judge, and even a dragon — in settings Berkeley CA 94704; 510-845-1447, fax 510-845-9141.
that swing from England to the West End, from post-
war Africa to the French countryside. Spark reorders
reality in odd ways; one can never guess at the begin-
ning of her tales their end. $24.95 cl, 0-8112-1367-6.
New Directions, 80 Eighth Avenue, New York NY When Violence Begins at Home: A Compre-
10011. Available from BP. hensive Guide to Understanding and Ending
Domestic Abuse by K.J. Wilson, Ed.D. is a practical
Elaine Crowley's memoir, A Dublin Girl: guide which addresses the needs of multiple audi-
Growing Up in the 1930's, traces her life as the eldest ences including battered women from various
of three children living in a one-room tenement that backgrounds, teenaged victims of dating violence,
shared a bathroom on a landing with the neighbors. educators, community leaders, and even the batter-
Her father’s pet, Elaine recalls the crowded streets ers themselves. Special chapters clarify the
where the children played, the market, and her responsibilities — and limitations — of friends and
mother’s visits to the local money lender, as well as family, shelter employees, health care providers, law
infidelity, domestic violence, and learning to cope enforcement officers, employers, and clergy. Includes
with her beloved father’s actions. At 14 Elaine gets a comprehensive listing of local and national
her first job, her father succumbs to TB, and her resources. “This book will be the bible for domestic
mother realizes her dreams of being “on the pig’s violence advocates for years to come.” —Del Martin,
back” (out of debt with money to spare) and having in her foreword. $19.95 pb, 0-89793-227-7; $29.95 cl,
a house of her own. $22 cl, 1-56947-112-6. Soho Press, -228-5. Hunter House Publishers, PO Box 2914,
853 Broadway, New York NY 10003; 800-631-8571. Alameda CA 94501; 510-865-5282, fax 510-865-4295.
Available from BPF, B&T, Ingram, Bookazine, Book- Distributed by PGW.
man, Booksource.
Pathways to Peace: Forty Steps to a Less
Violent America by Victor Lacerva gives steps for
individuals to prevent violence in their families and
communities. The information in Pathways to Peace
Where Women Have No Doctor: A Health ranges from strategies communities can use to
Guide for Women, by A. August Burns, Ronnier reduce teen violence to how parents can reduce the
Lovich, Jane Maxwell, and Katharine Shaprio, shows chances that their children will be victims of violence.
how a woman's health status is affected by the social, The book also covers the entire range of family and
cultural and econoniic conditions in which she lives, community violence. Readers will feel empowered
and provides easy-to-follow guidelines to diagnose by this book — especially useful for teachers, civic
and treat many health problems that affect women. leaders, health care providers, and leaders of the
Written in collaboration with community-based faith community. One person can make a difference
women’s groups and health workers in 30 countries, in reducing violence, and this book shows where to
and illustrated by women artists from all over the start. 20%. $15, 0-9649104-0-3. Heartsongs Publish-
world, the contents of Where Women Have No ing, Box 568, Tesuque NM 87574; 800-322-4233.
Doctor have been extensively field tested and — Dorothy Holland
reviewed in Asia, the Pacific Islands, Africa, the
Middle East and Latin America. This guide utilizes In Rosie’s Place: Offering Women Shelter and
simple language to make complicated medical infor- Hope, Andrea Cleghorn provides an inside look at
mation understandable, even to readers with low Rosie's Place and the women whose lives have been
Winter 1998 110
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
changed by it. Rosie’s Place, the first drop-in center in particular; and that survival starts from a patient
Boston for women in need of emergency shelter, food, stitching up of memories, dreams, [and] voices
and clothing, opened in 1974. In the years since its emerging out of both a personal and communal
founding, Rosie’s Place has evolved from simply pro- past.” —Annamarie Pinazzi. $16.95 pb, 0-930100-
viding shelter to creating solutions for long-term 54-9. Holy Cow! Press, PO Box 3170, Mount Royal
independence. Programs help women fight hunger, Station, Duluth MN 55803; 218-724-1653. Distrib-
get education and jobs, secure housing, and gain uted by Consortium.
success in medical and legal services. No government
funding is accepted, but Rosie’s Place has garnered
the support of national celebrities Lily Tomlin, Rosie
O'Donnell, and Liza Minnelli. $23.95 cl, 0-9641089-9-2.
VanderWyk & Burnham, PO Box 2789, 411 Massach- In Buddhist Women on the Edge a diverse range
usetts Ave., Acton MA 01720; 800-789-7916. Available of contributors — Dharma teachers, scholars, monas-
from B&T and Ingram. tics, practitioners, and sympathizers — describe their
personal experiences and explore the challenges and
Katie's Canon: Womanism and the Soul of the rewards of integrating Buddhist practice into Ameri-
Black Community collects essays written by Presby- can life. Contributors, including Sandy Boucher, Pema
terian minister Katie Geneva Cannon for diverse Chodron, Jane Hirshfield, bell hooks, and Miranda
occasions. Each essay offers a three-pronged, systemic Shaw, explore issues of gender, race, class, sexuality,
analysis of race, sex, and class from the perspective of lineage, authority, and the accessibility of Buddhist
African American women in the academy of religion. institutions as well as monastic, lay, and community
“This is vintage Katie Cannon — challenging, pro- practice; cross-cultural adaptation and appropriation;
phetic, self-critical, and womanist to the bone.” and how spiritual practice informs creativity, personal
—Cornel West. Foreword by Sara Lawrence-Light- relationships, and political/social activism. $16.95 pb,
foot. $15.95 pb, 0-8264-1034-0. Continuum, 370 1-55643-203-8. North Atlantic Books, PO Box 12327,
Lexington Avenue, New York NY 10017;212-953-5858, Berkeley CA 94712; 510-559-8277, fax 510-559-8279.
fax 212-953-5944. Available from BP. Distributed by PGW.
In War Cries, a collection of one- and two-act New Choices in Natural Healing For Women:
plays, Diane Glancy writes of the Native American Drug-Free Remedies from the World of Alternative
experience with an intensity of language and feeling Medicine by the editors of Prevention magazine is a
usually reserved for poetry. The plays offer both a guide to alternative medicines geared toward
scorching vision of contemporary Native American women’s health issues. Part one focuses on the 30
life and a powerful retelling of ancient myths. In most reliable and practical alternative therapies, from
Glancy's hands the disturbing realities of poverty, acupuncture to yoga. Part two gives specific advice
realism, and a fragmented social fabric are redeemed and tips on how to use the therapies for a variety of
by a living connection with a sacred past. “War Cries health concerns, with special emphasis on problems
is a continuous illustration of two things: That only unique to women. This guide also features motivating
through humble recognition and acceptance of one’s true-life stories of women who have healed them-
split, torn, fragmented self can one overcome the selves naturally. $29.95 cl, 0-87596-387-0. Rodale
sense of loss that characterizes our modern waste- Books, 33 East Minor Street, Emmaus PA 18098.
land in general and the Native American’s in Distributed by St. Martin’s.
111 Winter 1998
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
No More Whiskers in the Sink: A Humorous 1-55972-423-4. Birch Lane Press, an imprint of Carol
and Practical Guide for Women Living Without a Publishing Group, 120 Enterprise Avenue, Secaucus
Man by Colleen Henry and Sue Zeno is a practical and NJ 07094; 201-866-0490. Available from BP.
humorous book dealing with the full spectrum of
issues the newly single woman must face, and pro-
vides a blueprint for rebuilding your life. Topics
explored include saying goodbye to married life,
beginning a positive quest for self reliance, uncou- - Legend: The Arthurian Tarot written and illus-
pling and adjusting to your solo status, taking care of trated by Anna-Marie Ferguson. This new 78-card
business — your home, yard, and auto — and changes deck comes with a beautiful layout sheet of the Celtic
in financial status and other monetary matters. The Cross spread, accompanied by a 304-page book.
contents are better than the cover. $13.95 pb, Based on the mythology of Arthurian Legend, the
0-9658752-0-2. Granville-Moore Publications, 2843 deck will appeal to Mists of Avalon fans, most Renais-
Hopyard Road #121, Pleasanton CA 94588; 510-484- sance Festival-goers, and those who are inspired by
2268, fax 510-461-9045. Available from BP. Celtic Myth. Morgan le Fay, the Lady of the Lake, and
Guinevere all figure heavily in the story. In years past,
Llewellyn has had a tendency to feature artwork in
many titles that resembles Barbie-on-a-broomstick,
but this is steadily improving. On a 1 to 10 scale of
In No Fat Chicks: How Big Business Profits by women who resemble real life, this deck gets-a 5.
Making Women Hate Their Bodies — And How to $34.95, 1-56718-267-4.
Fight Back journalist Terry Poulton exposes the real Trancing the Witch's Wheel: A Guide to
reason so many women spend their lives chasing the Magickal Meditation by Yasmine Galehorn. Never
mirage of a “perfect” body that only five percent of have liked the magic-with-a-K thing but this is, none-
us can ever achieve: money. Poulton once became a theless, a great title to recommend to those interested
women’s magazine cover story by losing 65 pounds in learning more about pagan ways and meditation
in six months, only to regain all the weight. The through the four elements. It is well-written, with
experience sent her into hiding and led her to have lovely illustrations. Anyone — Wiccan or otherwise
her stomach stapled and, later, to embark on a liquid — can gain a deeper understanding and appreciation
protein diet that destroyed her gall bladder. It finally for the cycles of nature from this book. $12.95,
ended in the realization, compellingly documented 1-56718-303-4.
in this book, that her lifelong battle with fat — and Magical Gardens: Myth, Mulch & Marigolds by
with the crippling self-hatred that stayed with her Patricia Monaghan ($14.95, 1-56718-4669). Thirteen
even in her “thin” periods — was fostered by a $50 layouts (of course!) for beautiful gardens to design
billion industry devoted to the proposition that a and cultivate by the author of The New Book of
woman is worthless unless she’s thin. Poulton traces Goddesses and Heroines ($14.95, 1-56718-465-0). The
the evolution of anti-fat ideology and the businesses soft green ink is easy on the eyes; the seasonal rituals
that profit from it. She shows how the glorification of to celebrate with your harvests and the overall useful-
emaciation serves the beauty, fitness, fashion, diet, ness of the book are excellent. Barbie-on-a-broomstick
food, and even the health-care industries, and how rating: 9.
the media's vicious vilification of “fat chicks” guar- Celtic Women’s Spirituality: Accessing the
antees that women will frantically keep spending Cauldron of Life by Edain McCoy. I haven’t seen the
money on products that promise escape from such illustrations but the cover art gets a B.O.A.B. rating of
stigma. Poulton also demonstrates how the cultural 10! Very engaging and readable, I especially enjoyed
pressure to be thin can constrain a woman’s life — the chapters on the feminine mystery cults and femi-
economically, sexually, psychologically, emotionally, nine Celtic shamanism, and the guided meditation
and physically — whether she is fat or not. (Canadian into the Sheila-na-gig. Sell this to rocker women with
edition of this book reviewed in FBN 19#5.) $21.95 cl, a copy of P.J. Harvey’s second CD, Dry, with the song
Winter 1998 112
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
“Sheila-na-Gig” queued-up on the stores’ CD player. Uncensored Fantasies by Danielle Engle is a
$16.95, 1-56718-672-6. collection of lesbian porno short stories with very little
Magick of the Gods & Goddesses: How to story line. Plenty of hot sex scenes with lots of pro-
Invoke Their Powers by D.J. Conway (yes, a woman). noun confusion that make for some seemingly
A very good reference book or overview for those impossible anatomical contortions, such as “Pamela
interested in the god and goddess stories from virtually buried her face against her breasts...” $6.95 pb,
everywhere on the planet. With its obvious esoteric 1-56333-572-7, Rosebud.
worldview, readers will travel from the Middle East Sparks Fly by Kitty Tsui writing as Eric Norton,
and Africa to India, China, Japan, and Tibet and then is a gender-bender book of porn. It is written by a
back to North and South America.... Here are histories lesbian posing as a gay man, with a photo of a butch
and herstories, names and invocations. Cheesy cover, young dyke on the cover. It is the story of a young
but it looks good spine out. $17.95, 1-56718-179-1. man, growing up in Singapore, whose mother is
Llewellyn Publications, Box 64383, St. Paul MN Chinese and whose father is an unknown American
55164. Available from BP, Koen, B&T, Ingram. officer. After a very sexually active childhood, he
—Donna Niles goes to San Francisco with the sponsorship of his
American half-brother. There he discovers the Castro
and all its games in the 70s. Pretty hot sex scenes,
better written than most. The sex is between men, but
I couldn't forget it was written by a woman which is
A collection of titles for your smut section, if you part of what held my attention. $6.95 pb, 1-56333-
have one. 551-4, Badboy.
Leda & The House of Spirits: two novellas by The short stories in Bulletproof Butches by Chea
Aarona Griffin. In Leda, Chrys and Leda’s ten-year Villanueva are about working class, butch women who
relationship is fulfilling for Chrys while smothering carry guns, go to prison, and fight the world. I was
Leda. Leda’s wild adventure at a lesbian sex club disappointed to find that there are no descriptions of
makes her realize how much she’s been missing. the sexual activities they frequently refer to. A few
Good description of the sex club, with well-written, poems that are much more romantic than the stories
hot sex scenes. The second story, The House of are included. $7.95 pb, 1-56333-560-3, Hard Candy.
Spirits, is much less successful. Lydia buys an old Red Jordan Arobateau’s latest, Satan’s Best, is the
furnished house and soon discovers that the bed in tale of working class butcher-than-butch motorcyclist,
the master bedroom has been the deathbed of several Angel. Angel joins a lesbian motorcycle gang and
lesbians in the past hundred years. $6.95 pb, 1-56333- takes on the world. Arobateau writes with a crude
585-9, Rosebud. beauty of the poverty, drugs, run-ins with the law,
Pat Califia’s foreword to the reprint of John Nor- steamy sex, guns, and violence that rule the gang
man’s Imaginative Sex is the only thing that would members’ lives. $6.95 pb, 1-56333-539-5, Rosebud.
make this book be of any interest to feminist book- All imprints of Masquerade Books, 801 Second
stores, and that probably isn't enough. She fully Avenue, New York NY 10017; 212-661-7878. Available
admits that the author is a “sexist pig” but says it’s from BFP, Alamo Square. —KWW O
“great jackoff material.” Originally published in 1974,
it’s written in the form of a self-help manual for For Small Press Distributor information,
heterosexual couples who want to improve their sex please see page 103.
life. $7.95 pb, 1-56333-561-1, Rhinoceros.
113 Winter 1998
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Music continued from page 85. Playtime/ Teresa Trull & Barbara Higbie. After
with an intriguing “electro-acoustic” twist! “Maha” is all these years, another album by this beloved duo is
the Sanskrit word meaning “great or powerful” and it being released in early 1998! On this upbeat collec-
evokes the energy of the 30 women in the choir. The tion of acoustic blues-flavored songs, strong
styles on their 1996 debut range from sampled avant- harmonizing and songwriting from these two multi-
garde sounds, to the 14th-century composition “Stella talents blend with their top-notch fancy fiddle- and
Splendens” (on which they pepper the Latin lyrics with piano-playing. Special guest Cris Williamson joins in
hand percussion, bells, violin, dulcimer and an upbeat as the newly reunited duo finds serious fun and
chanting vocal arrangement) to the religiously medita- inspiration in each other’s gifts. All songs are origi-
tive and echoey a cappella hymn “Create in Me,” to the nals, except for a song each from B.B. King and Billie
traditional Javanese “Monkey Chant.” My favorite is Holiday. Slowbaby 82212.
the eerily loopy version of Willie Nelson’s “Crazy” — Coming in the Spring of 1998: Look for two
this isn't a Patsy Cline retread, trust me! Here’s a choir releases on the Ladyslipper label! Sacred Pleasure by
that pushes the musical envelope without throwing Shawna Carol and Ubaka Hill’s second recording, not
pleasurable sound overboard. Studio X 0001. definitively titled at press date. O
Gay Men’s Lit, continued from page 82. Lisa Kahaleole, Chang Hall, J. Kehaulani Kauanui,
original and completely compelling voice in this blend Joel Tan, Richard Fung, Andrew Lam, and R. Zamora
of politics, history, and passion set partly in present- Linmark. Routledge, $17.95 pb, 0-415-91437-X.
day San Francisco and partly in Vietnam-era Laos. It’s Sexuality and Eroticism Among Males in
the account of one man’s courtship of another, both Moslem Societies edited by Arno Schmitt and Jehoeda
through food and through the discovery of a shared Sofer — Less clinical than many Harrington Park books,
cultural heritage. Dutton, $23.95 cl, 0525942807, April. this collection of essays, memoirs and anthropological
Sex, Longing and Not Belonging: A Gay fieldwork presents both an insider’s and an outsider’s
Muslim’s Quest for Love and Meaning by Badruddin perspective on same-sex male relations in such coun-
Khan — As far as I know, this is the first memoir by a tries as Morocco, Syria, Iran, Turkey and Israel.
gay South Asian: he writes with candor and insight Harrington, $14.95 pb, 0-918393-96-4, Alamo.
about how he dealt with the mores of his culture as he Homoeroticism In Classical Arabic Literature
struggled to come out. The writing is upbeat, the story edited by J. W. Wright, Jr., and Everett K. Rowson —
fascinating. Floating Lotus, $12.95 pb, 0-94277-16-2. It’s a bit dense, this one, but a great addition to a
critical-studies section; it points to dozens of texts
from ancient times which depict both male-male and
female-female loves, lusts and japes. Columbia
University Press, $22.95 pb, 0-231-10507-X.
Men of Color: A Context for Service to Homo- *Bite Hard by Justin Chin — Sweet sentiment,
sexually Active Men edited by John Longres — sweet pain, vivid sex, sassy travelogues, dynamic po-
Harrington Park Press books are often written for the ems — Chin, born in Malaysia, raised in Singapore,
social services professional, and that’s the case with now practicing his performance and writing craft in
this look at how gayness, HIV status and “otherness” San Francisco, is a writer to watch, a unique voice.
complicates the lives of men of Asian, African, Latino, And he’s a funny writer, a smart writer, a master of just
and Native American descent — an excellent book for the right word or phrase or sentence. This is one of my
the “helping professions.” Harrington, $19.95 pb, top 10 books of 1997. Manic D Press, $11.95 pb,
1-56023-083-5, Alamo. 0-916397-47-5, PGW /BP.
Asian-American Sexualities: Dimensions of the Dove Coos Louder translated by David Jonathon
Gay and Lesbian Experience edited by Russell Leong — Third in a mildly erotic series of stories from Thai
— Much of this trade edition appeared several years gay magazines (Dove Coos is out of print but Dove II is
ago as an issue of Amerasia Journal, but there's plenty still available), written by the men of Thailand. Float-
that’s new. Contributors include Leong, Kitty Tsui, ing Lotus, $14 pb, 0-9427772-1-2. O
Winter 1998 114 Volume 20 Number 5/6
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
FROM PRESSES
THE e
s RIAAN A
By Mev Miller effects on young Black women prior to the National
YWCA's vote in 1946 to adopt an interracial charter
Editor's note: See the Black History Month and and move toward integration of local chapters. During
Women’s History Month Roundups for additional these earlier years, middle-class Black women were
University Press titles. committed both to social action and institutional
COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS expression of their religious conviction. They used the
Black YWCA as a way of helping young women
By weaving together issues of gender, race, sex, the migrating to and living alone in New York. This book
relationship between individuals and the state, and offers a vibrant picture of African American women as
foreign policy, Sex Among Allies: Military Prostitu- significant to the religious, class, gender, and racial
tion in U.S.—Korea Relations by Katherine H.S. Moon negotiations so often involved in U.S. social reform
shows how women such as Korean prostitutes are movements. $35 cl, text discount, 0-674-00778-6.
marginalized and made invisible in military-dependent Now available in paperback: Dubious Concep-
societies both because of the degradation of their work tions: The Politics of Teenage Pregnancy, Kristin
and because of their importance for national “security.” Luker. $14.95, 0-674-21703-9.
$16.50 pb, 0-231-10643-2; $47.50 cl, -10642-4.*** C
DUKE UNIVERSITY PRESS l
Back in print: The Mother Knot, Jane Lazarre. Af
$14.95 pb, 098223-2039-8. INDIANA UNIVERSITY PRESS
HARVARD UNIVERSITY PRESS Hate math? Envious of women who are not only
not afraid of it but who are also good at it? Or are you
Harvard adds to their health series with two new just plain interested in women’s place in the field of
titles: The Women’s Concise Guide to a Healthier mathematics or the gender implications of the strong
Heart, edited by Karen Carlson, Stephanie Eisenstat mythology in dominant culture that women can’t do
and Terra Ziporyn ($12.95 pb, 0-674-95484-X; $24.95 mathematics? Then have a look at Women in Mathe-
cl, -95483-1); and The Women’s Concise Guide to matics: The Addition of Difference by Claudia
Emotional Well-Being, same editors ($14.95 pb, Henrion. Henrion interweaves profiles of eleven
0-674-95491-2; $29.95 cl, -95490-4). diverse and prominent contemporary women in
African American Women and Christian mathematics with a probing exploration of the disci-
Activism: New York’s Black YWCA, 1905-1945 by pline’s culture. $16.95 pb, 0-253-21119-0; $39.95 cl,
Judith Weisenfeld explores some of the activities and -33279-6.**
This book isn't for every store — just those with
Ratings: One and two asterisks are more suited for general strong connections to music departments at colleges or
stores while three and four would do better in stores with a conservatories, but Contemporary Anthology of
more academic audience. If a title is unrated, it means that Music by Women, edited by James R. Briscoe, is the
I haven't seen the book in order to make an evaluation. kind of book I would have wanted when I was studying
Volume 20 Number 5/6 115 Winter 1998
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
orchestration as a music major. In addition to brief life Women and Violence, Martha Reineke ($18.95 pb,
biographies of many women composers of whom I'd 0-253-21128-X; $35 cl, -33299-0****),
never heard of, it includes complete scores of some of
their major works. ($29.95 spiral pb, 0-253-21102-6.) It’s JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY PRESS
a good companion to Historical Anthology of Music Now available in paperback: Isis in the Ancient
by Women also compiled by Briscoe ($29.95 spiral pb, World by R.E. Witt. $16.95, 0-8018-5642-6.***
0-253-21296-0; with two-CD set $29.95, -33281-8***).
FTM: Female to Male Transsexuals in Society by KENT STATE UNIVERSITY PRESS
Holly Devor provides detailed, compassionate, inti- Of interest: Cautious Rebel: A Biography of
mate and incisive portraits of the life experiences of 45 Susan Clay Sawitzky, Lindsey APPI. $35. cl,
female-to-male transsexuals. $49.95 cl, 0-253-33631-7. 0-87338-579-9.
Also of interest: A Daughter of the Land, Gene
Stratton-Porter (1863-1924), regional fiction from the MIT PRESS
Library of Indiana Classics ($11.95 pb, 0-253-21138-7; Now available in paperback: Queer Science: The
$20 cl, -33305-9); Sacrificed Lives: Kristeva on Use and Abuse of Research into Homosexuality,
Simon LeVay. $15, 0-262-62119-3.
NEW YORK UNIVERSITY PRESS
The Ítory I Tell Myself Clipped Wings: The Rise and Fall of Women
Airforce Service Pilots (WASPs) of World War II,
A Venture in Existentialist Autobiography Molly Merryman. $29.95 cl, 0-8147-5567-4.
HAZEL E. BARNES Women of Steel: Female Bodybuilders and the
Struggle for Self-Definition by Maria Lowe provides
“ [In B a t rra nci en sg ] h e pr r c oa vre ie dr, es critical wa 1n 0o 0 r li dn p s e i ood pfe l e wl o coo omk n e n na et ’ cs t e t b dh o e d t y of b a us wc ili odn mia nt egi nn . ’ g s L o ba w on dd e y bil na ur t ilg e dre ivl ny i ge w u —en dknown
insight into the evolution bodybuilders, trainers, family members, spouses,
of her own embrace of judges, and sponsors. Many issues are covered:
existentialism, the accep- balancing profession with “femininity,” successes and
tance of challenge as the failures, benefits and unhealthy effects, competition,
fertile ground of individual judging, and the “perfect” body. $17.95 pb, 0-8147-
choice, as well as the ʻexpe- 5094-X; $45 cl, -5093-1.
rience of women who
NORTHEASTERN UNIVERSITY PRESS
chose to pursue careers in Public Heroes, Private Felons: Athletes and
the period between
Virginia Woolf and Betty Friedan.’ ...An intimate Crimes Against Women by Jeff Benedict investigates
record of our times and of the ongoing issues that a tt rh ul met e s o’ f a cb ou msi pv le e x b e fh aa cv ti oo rr s, td he alv t i n gg i v ein t ro i s et h te o f au nl dl spec-
challenge us to define ourselves over and over perpetuate the disturbing pattern of frequent sexual
again.”— Kirkus Reviews and domestic violence toward women. And, oppos-
(loth $29.95 ing the public stance of sports organizations, Benedict
offers compelling evidence that male athletes commit
more crimes against women than do their peers.
The University of Chicago Press $24.95 cl, 1-55553-316-7.*
5801 South Ellis Avenue, Chicago, Illinois 60637 OHIO UNIVERSITY PRESS
Visit us at http:/www.press.uchicago.edu Writing one’s memoirs or reading those of others
is quite popular right now. Legacy: A Step-by-Step
Winter 1998 116
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsenyi AIN T A
It
Guide to Writing Personal History by Linda Spence fiction of Haitian women — as is an urgent sense of
is animated by the belief that every life has value and the historical place of women between the two U.S.
knowledge for others. A personal history is a gift to occupations of the country. Their novels examine
share. Through supportive coaching, stimulating women’s social and political stances in Haiti from an
questions, shared memories, and evocative photo- explicitly female point of view, forcefully responding
graphs, the process of producing a personal history to overt sexual and political violence within the
becomes intriguing and engaging. $14.95 pb, 0-8040- nation’s ambivalent political climate. $17.95 pb,
1003-X; $24.95 cl, -1002-1. 0-8135-2340-0; $48 cl, -2339-7.***
The Bent Twig by Dorothy Canfield, first publish- For those who like original source material and
ed in 1915 and now reissued, gives fictional form to the enjoy reading the papers and letters of early feminists,
Montessori method and reflects the deeply processed yov'll definitely want to invest in The Selected Papers
insights into education and human development that of Elizabeth Cady Stanton and Susan B. Anthony. This
Canfield gained. The novel's concerns include gender collection will be presented in six volumes — the first is
roles, race relations, substance abuse, the environment, In the School of Anti-Slavery: 1840-1866, edited by
and the welfare of children. $16.95 pb, 0-8214-1185-3. Ann Gordon. This edition documents the lives and
Also of interest: Gender Violence and the Press: accomplishments of two of America’s most important
The St. Kizito Story, H. Leslie Steeves. $17.95, social and political reformers and recounts a quarter of
0-89680-195-0. a century of staunch commitment to political change.
Like the complete collections of Virginia Woolf's diaries,
I look forward to collecting all six volumes of these
collected writings. The price, however, will send casual
readers to the library. $60 cl, 0-8135-2317-6.*
OXFORD UNIVERSITY PRESS Feminist Sociology: Life Histories of a Move-
Now in paperback: Am I Thin Enough Yet? The ment, edited by Barbara Laslett and Barrie Thorne, is
Cult of Thinness and the Commercialization of a collection of life stories by participants in the move-
Identity, Sharlene Hesse-Biber. $13.95, 0-19-511791-3. ment to bring feminist insights to the field of
sociology. The authors in this volume, all sociologists
PENN STATE UNIVERSITY PRESS who have greatly influenced the field in which they
New in the Re-Reading the Canon series: Femi- write, show how relationships, experiences of
nist Interpretations of Immanuel Kant, edited by inequality, and professional conflict and camaraderie
Robin May Schott ($18.95 pb, short discount, 0-271- interweave with the formation of social theory, politi-
01676-0); Feminist Interpretations of Soren cal movements, and intellectual thought. $19.95 pb,
Kierkegaard, edited by Céline Léon and Sylvia Walsh 0-8135-2429-6; $50 cl, -2428-8.**
($17.95 pb, short discount, 0-271-01699-X). Confinements: Fertility and Infertility in
Contemporary Culture, Helena Michie and Naomi
RUTGERS UNIVERSITY PRESS Cahn. $17.95 pb, 0-8135-2433-4; $50 cl, -2432-6.**
Framing Silence: Revolutionary Novels by
Haitian Women by Myriam J.A. Chancy is the first STATE UNIVERSITY
book-length study in English devoted exclusively to OF NEW YORK PRESS (SUNY)
Haitian women’s literature. Issues of race, class, color, I'm one of those women who hates to be scared.
caste, nationality, and sexuality are all central to the Sometimes I can't even watch the previews of movies
Volume 20 Number 5/6 117 Winter 1998
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
CND OD)
or TV shows because they’re so terrifying. I don’t want
those violent images in my psyche — I get enough
n from the news, thank you. But some women enjoy
IAN] AS I™E O. F : F EgMoIN I NaITloY n FgA N TwASiItEhS O hF o hravriongr t hfel ihcekarst. p aRlpeitcatrioenast iaonnd a slw e aTtye r pralomrs: that
FE M | N | N | | Y Women and the Pleasures of Horror Film Viewing by
Reframing the Cristina Pinedo challenges the conventional wisdom
„' Boundaries of Sex that violent horror films can only degrade women and
JANE M. USSHER incite violence. Her contention is that contemporary
A c t“ a ipA vtin eva t i tna g om s b u nrit v uei ayo n u . c s e, . . as A nc th dteo n l -a dr el ty ai, l . .a .nd ph an bo d ,r r o 0tr -e 7 r 9rf 1oi 4l rm - 3 i 4 n 4s 2p -e t 7a h ;k e s $ m 4t 4o i .d 5 s 0t t h ce o l ,f c u -sl 3ot 4cu 4ir a 1a l - l 9 .un pe he ed a v t alo . e Rx ip gr he ts .s $ r 1a 4g .9e 5
“| ` : Ussher has produced an Memoirs of a Terrorist by Sally Patterson
JANE M. USSHER important—even optimis- Tubach is a haunting experimental novel about a
ti c—Abo o k.a It éw ill obef o f rinetepresrt e tso s eivnerygon e tcohnciersn ed memor d yau .g h te Ir n r ap e ad b y p h ae rr a f lat lh eer l, an nd a t rhe r c aon ts ieq vue enc ,e s the
with issues of gender and sexuality.”—Lynne Segal father analyzes the posthumous writings of his
384 pp. Paper, $17.00; Cloth $48.00 daughter for clues to her thoughts and behavior.
$19.95 pb, 0-7914-3006-5.
BODYMAKERS Madeleva: A Biography by Gail Porter Mandell
n looks at the life of Madeleva, a close friend of C.S.
A Cultural Anatomy of Women’s Body Building Lewis, Thomas Merton, Jacques Maritain, and Clare
LESLIE HEYWOOD Booth Luce. This book paints a picture of daily life in
“With clarity, force, and passionate investment communities of religious women and explores the
grounded in both theory and her own experience, inner life of a passionately spiritual woman who was
Heywood understands that women can strengthen body, known as an advocate for women in the church as
mind, and spirit through everyday practice. Her argu- well as a scholar, poet, and essayist. $19.95 pb,
ment... isas inspirational as it is poignant.” 0-7914-3440-0.
—Joanna Frueh, author of Erotic Faculties Of interest: The Politics of Consequences of
224 pp. 14 b & w illus. Paper, $18.00;:Cloth $48.00 Thinking: Gender H aannnda h J uAdraeisnmdt i n($ 3 t4h.5e0 Wc]o, r k0 - 7o9f14-3483-4); Devils,
Women, and Jews: Reflections of the Other in
MA aSe Medieval Sermon Stories, Joan Young Gregg ($20.95
“ 3? pb, 0-7914-3418-4; $62.50 cl, -3417-6); Sexual Politics in
FAVORED STRANGERS the Enlightenment: Women Writers Read Rousseau,
Gertrude Stein and Her Family Mary Seidman Trouille ($21.95 pb, 0-7914-3490-7;
LINDA WAGNER-MARTIN $65.50 cl, -3489-3); Without a Woman to Read: Toward
the Daughter in Postmodernism, Daniel Price ($21.95
e“nWgargonsseirn-gM, a ratnind ’s s oimmeptriemsseisv e slyur prreisseianrgc h bedio,g rtahpohryo u gish l ya pb, 0-7914-3460-5; $65.50 cl, -3459-1).
major contribution to our perception of the familial
relationships that shaped Stein's humanity as well as her
genius.” —American Literary Scholarship
400 pp. 46 b&w illus. Paper, $18.00; Cloth, $45.00 TEACHERS COLLEGE PRESS
TC Press offers two exciting new books for
U (800 Av)ail abl e i4n th4ose 6 wan-tin9g to3 br2ing 3fem inis t ,and cultural per-
bookstores or Call spectives to science and medicine: Privilege in the
Medical Academy: A Feminist Examines Gender,
Winter 1998 118 Volume 20 Number 5/6
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms= E,
= lin RRASA I A
Race, and Power by Delese Wear introduces litera- broad range of diversity in expertise, race and culture,
ture (e.g. The Bluest Eye, The Women of Brewster Place, workplace, age, and level of accomplishment. $59.95
Bastard Out of Carolina) into the medical school cur- c], 1-56639-527-5.
riculum. By approaching the training of physicians Of interest: Women’s Political Voice: How
from the perspective of medical humanities, Wear Women Are Transforming the Practice and Study of
shows how the Western paradigm of “scientific Politics, Janet Flammang ($24.95 pb, short discount,
objectivity” reinforces cultural biases on gender, 1-56639-534-8); Women’s Activism in Contemporary
race, class, and sexual orientation. Literature and art Russia, Linda Racioppi and Katherine O'Sullivan See
can decode silences and bring physicians to healing ($22.95 pb, short discount, 1-56639-521-6); Women,
values of imagination, empathy, and social justice. International Development and Politics: The
($19.95 pb, 0-8077-6288-1.) Re-engineering Female Bureaucratic Mire, updated and expanded edition,
Friendly Science by Sue V. Rosser continues where edited by Kathleen Staudt ($24.95 pb, short discount,
Female Friendly Science left off. Here, Rosser revisits 1-56639-546-1); Teen Mothers and the Revolving
the feminist origins of curriculum transformation Welfare Door, Kathleen Mullan Harris ($39.95 cl,
and puts the gender back into gender equity. ($25.95 1-56639-499-6***).
pb, 0-8077-6286-5.***)
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA PRESS
We know that sexism affects men but there’s little
| theoretical writing about men’s sexism from men who
' understand feminism. Proving Manhood: Reflections
TEMPLE UNIVERSITY PRESS on Men and Sexism by Timothy Beneke uses a variety
Lesbian & Bisexual Identities: Constructing of styles and approaches — autobiographical, psycho-
Communities, Constructing Selves by Kristin Ester- analytical, sociological, phenomenological, and
berg examines the stories of lesbian and bisexual political — to understand how men are required to
women in a Northeast community who share who “prove” their masculinity through the rituals of sports,
they are, how they have come to see themselves as sex, and work. These masculine identities repress and
lesbian or bisexual, and what those identities mean to reject all “feminized” behavior while pornography,
them. The author not only presents women’s stories homophobia, and the morning sports section become
in their own words, she moves beyond storytelling to crucial “proving grounds” where masculinity is tested
understand how these accounts resonate with social and asserted. $16.95 pb, 0-520-20961-3; $45 cl, -21266-5.*
theories of identity and community. This book is both Becoming Modern: The Life of Mina Loy has
interesting and promising — and priced just a bit too been reviewed as a “superb biography” of poet and
high for those generally interested in this topic. $18.95 visual artist Mina Loy (1882-1966) who has long had
pb, 1-56639-510-0; $49.95 cl, -509-7.* an underground reputation as an exemplary avant-
Here’s one of those books that you inust know gardist. Born in London of mixed Jewish and English
about and would really wish you could carry but just parentage, and a restless and much photographed
know that it’s too expensive and best left for some- beauty, she moved in the pivotal circles of interna-
body to special order: Journeys of Women in Science tional modernism, where her friends and lovers
and Engineering: No Universal Constants, edited by included Gertrude Stein, Marinetti, Marcel
Susan Ambrose et al., offers 89 profiles, with photo- Duchamo, Djuna Barnes, and Man Ray. $18.95 pb,
graphs, of women scientists and engineers from a 0-520-21089-1.**
Volume 20 Number 5/6 119 Winter 1998
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Of related interest and now in paperback: The In The Devil and Good Woman, Too: The Lives
Unruly Queen: The Life of Queen Caroline of Julia Peterkin, Susan Millar Williams studies the
(1768-1821), Flora Fraser ($17.95 pb, 0-520-21275-4**); life of a woman who defied convention, lived as she
“When I'm Bad, I'm Better” Mae West, Sex, and pleased, and wrote what she knew. Julia Peterkin was
American Entertainment, Marybeth Hamilton a plantation mistress who eventually wrote serious
($17.95, 0-520-21094-8). fiction about the lives of Black farming people. Her
five novels chronicled the collapse of plantation agri-
culture on the Gullah coast of South Carolina. $29.95
cl, 0-8203-1912-0.
UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO PRESS Also of interest: The Journals of Louisa May
Alcott, edited by Joel Myerson and Daniel Shealy
Osiris presents thematic annual volumes on ($21.95 pb, 0-8203-1950-3); A Will of Her Own: Sarah
central, strategic, or emerging topics of interest to the Towles Read and the Pursuit of Democracy in
history of science community. Women, Gender, and Southern Public Education, Leslia Gale Parr ($40 cl,
Science: New Directions — Osiris, Volume 12, edited short discount, 0-8203-1932-5).
by Sally Gregory Kohlstedt and Helen Longino, cen-
ters on some of the feminist perspectives in this field. UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS PRESS
Contributors include both the editors as well as Evelyn Purifying America: Women, Cultural Reform,
Fox Keller, Margaret Rossiter, Londa Schiebinger, and and Pro-Censorship Activism, 1873-1933 by Alison
others. Topics cover science, medicine, technology, Parker explores the widespread middle-class advo-
biology, gender issues, nature, and creating sustainable cacy of censorship as a popular reform around the
science. $25 pb, 0-226-30754-9; $39 cl, -30753-0.**** turn of the century and provides a historical perspec-
The Ovary of Eve: Egg and Sperm and Prefor- tive on contemporary debates over censorship,
mation by Clara Pinto-Correia traces the fascinating morality, and pornography that continue to divide
and often amusing social history of conception, ulti- women. $16.95 pb, 0-252-06625-1 .***
mately revealing the ways in which, even today, views Of related interest: The Common Ground of
of conception are influenced by society. $29.95 cl, Womanhood: Class, Gender, and Working Girls’
0-226-66952-1.*** Clubs, 1884-1928, Priscilla Murolo ($14.95 pb,
Also of interest: Parting from Phantoms: Selected 0-252-06629-4***); A Hard Fight for We: Women’s
Writings, 1990-1994, Christa Wolf ($24.95 cl, 0-226- Transition from Slavery to Freedom in South
90496-2); Forgetful of Their Sex: Female Sanctity and Carolina, Leslie A. Schwalm ($24.95 pb, 0-252-
Society, ca. 500-1100, Jane Tibbetts Schulenburg 06630-8****).
($34.95 cl, 0-226-74053-6); Women of the Twelfth
Century: Vol. 1: Eleanor of Aquitaine and Six Others,
Georges Duby ($15.95 pb, 0-226-16780-1).
Revised and expanded: The Battered Child, fifth
edition, Mary Edna Helfer, Ruth Kempe, Richard UNIVERSITY OF IOWA PRESS
Krugman. $45 cl, 0-226-32627-6. Between History and Poetry: The Letters of
UNIVERSITY OF GEORGIA PRESS H.D. and Norman Holmes Pearson, edited by Donna
Krolik Hollenberg, covers the period of H.D.’s life
Speaking the Other Self: American Women from 1937 to her death in 1961 and her correspon-
Writers, edited by Jeanne Campbell Reesmann, dence with Norman Holmes Pearson. Perhaps
explores a variety of writers over an array of time because she was absent from the American scene,
periods, subject matter, races and ethnicities, sexual expatriate H.D. was eager for more contact with
preferences, traditions, genres, and styles. This American writing — her relationship with Pearson
volume represents the fruits of the dramatic and cele- was vital to her development as a writer. His long-
brated growth of the study of American women standing commitment to her work as reflected in
writers today. $24.95 pb, 0-8203-1909-0. these learned, witty, sometimes poignant letters
Winter 1998 120
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsEE
me FR RIRAN k
ensured that H.D. would take her place as one of the supposed dichotomy between nature and technology,
0m -8aj 7o 7r 4 5 p -5o 9e 5ts - 3 .o *f * * this century. $39.95 cl, short discount, c co atd ee sp e tn hd ae tn c we, o man ed n r re ec co ov ge nr iy ze p ar no dg r ia nm ts e. g r H ati ell y wer e a kad nv eso s-
UNIVERSITY OF KENTUCKY PRESS along with strength. $16.95 pb, 0-8061-2979-4.*
Stores with strong film sections (or biography- UNIVERSITY OF TORONTO PRESS
sections) will enjoy the new selections from UKP. UTP titles are shipped from Buffalo, New York.
Pickford: The Woman Who Made Hollywood by Lesbian Lifestyles: Women’s Work and the
Eileen Whitfield examines all facets of Mary Pickford’s Politics of Sexuality by Gillian Dunne is a highly
life — from her rise to prominence simultaneously academic study showing how sexuality is socially
with the growth of the film industry, through her reign constructed, which therefore links heterosexuality
with Douglas Fairbanks as Hollywood's royalty, to her with empowerment and the subsequent under-
last years as a recluse, struggling with alcoholism. ($25 standing of working life and domestic arrangements.
cl, 0-8131-20145-4.) Marie Dressler: The Unlikeliest These arrangements look different when the gender
Star by Betty Lee looks at the life of an actress not structuring principle is absent. $18.95 pb, 0-8020-
considered a typical beauty but one who captivated 7951-2; $50 cl, -4104-3.****
audiences because of her roles as a tough, practical
character. She spoke honestly to her audiences, and UNIVERSITY PRESS OF NEW ENGLAND
troubled people, in the comforting darkness of Depres- First published in 1971 and now available with 18
sion-era movie theaters, embraced her as one of their previously uncollected articles, Marmalade Me by Jill
own. ($25 cl, 0-8131-2036-5.) Johnston provides a view of the 60s and one of the art
world’s and 70s feminism’s most influential voices.
$19.95 pb, 0-8195-6314-5.**
UTAH STATE UNIVERSITY PRESS
UNIVERSITY OF
NORTH CAROLINA PRESS of th eU n Wco em stm o bn y C Ao nm nm e o Bn u tW lero m ae nn d: O Or nd ai n Sa ir py o r iL ni v e is s a
Women Against the Good War: Conscientious multi-genre piece that will broaden and enrich the
Objection and Gender on the American Home Front, general reader’s understanding of women’s lives dur-
1941-1947 by Rachel Waltner Goossen tells the story ing the western emigration era. Rather than focus on
of women who identified as conscientious objectors stereotypes (schoolmarm or dance hall girl), the
despite cultural hostility and discriminatory federal authors focus on the forgotten roles and gritty realities
policies. They sought to demonstrate their human- of women’s lives — including immigrants and Native
itarian convictions by taking part in Civilian Public Americans — during an often brutally difficult time.
Service work. $15.95 pb, 0-8078-4672-4.*** Combining historical narrative with storytelling and
photographs generates rewarding images and many
UNIVERSITY OF OKLAHOMA PRESS voices. $21.95 pb, 0-87421-210-3; $34.95 cl, -209-X.*
explo rF ee sm ii sn si us em s oa fn d v iD tais la b ci oli nt cy e r nby b oB ta hr b a tr oa wH oi mlly ee nr with VANDERBILT UNIVERSITY PRESS
disabilities and to women caregivers: body aware- Gender and Nationalism in Colonial Cuba: The
ness, community and reciprocity, fatigue, the Travels of Santa Cruz y Montalvo, Condesa de
Volume 20 Number 5/6 121 Winter 1998
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Merlin, Adriana Méndez Rodena. $34.95 cl, short In 1960 the publication of Quarto de Despejo (Child
discount, 0-8265-1299-2. of the Dark) by Carolina Maria de Jesus created a
sensation in Brazil — and later in the rest of the world,
as it appeared in translations in fourteen languages.
Y'm Going to Have a Little House is de Jesus’ second
diary, the continuation of her amazing and utterly
Some important titles that slipped through the cracks. disturbing story. $15 pb, 0-8032-7599-4, University of
Articles in the Hypatia’s special issue Third Wave Nebraska, Bison Books.
Feminism include “Surfing the Third Wave: A The Complete Writings of Emily Carr, introduc-
Dialogue Between Two Third Wave Feminists” by Rita tion by Doris Shadbolt, is now available in paperback.
Alfonso and Jo Trigilio, “The Legacy of the Personal: It includes Klee Wyck, The Book of Small, and The House
Generating Theory in Feminism’s Third Wave” by of All Sorts. “Young, spirited and rebellious, Emily
Deborah L. Siegel, “Mean Spirits: The Politics of Carr escaped a strict Victorian household to study art
Contempt Between Feminist Generations” by Made- in the Paris of Picasso and Matisse. In middle age, she
lyn Detloff, “Ending at the Skin: Sexuality and Race in shook the dust of acceptable society from her shoes
Feminist Theorizing” by Abby Wilkerson, and “Warn- and began a passionate journey into the wilderness of
ing! Contents Under Heterosexual Pressure” by Peg British Columbia; the power of her genius made her
O'Connor. Vol. 12#3/Summer 1997. $12.50 pb, ISSN one of the twentieth century’s great painters. Fortu-
0887-5367, Indiana University Press. nately she also wrote. In her books, her warmth, her
An obscure though important book we should humanity, her sense of fun and the ridiculous combine
all know about is “We Two Know the Script; We to present a self-portrait of a remarkable woman and
Have Become Good Friends” Linguistic and Social artist. For many women, she is a heroine because of
Aspects of The Women’s Script Literacy in Southern her tenacity and creative brilliance.” —Mary Pratt.
Hunan, China by William W. Chiang. Women in $27.95 pb, 0-295-97626-8, Douglas & McIntyre.
Southern Hunan, deprived of access to education, Distributed by University of Washington Press.
created a written language of their own and taught As the child of African American and Native
their daughters, passing it on through the genera- American parents, Kaylynn TwoTrees grew up hear-
tions. Men could not read the script and belittled it. ing herself called “half breed” and “mixed blood,”
This book is a study of the women’s script and terms which now, after many transforming experi-
includes Chiang’s collection of 142 documents and 13 ences, have positive and powerful meanings for her.
months fieldwork from interview data to reinterpre- In Somebody Always Singing You the author chron-
tations of existing literature on the script. Chiang icles her life from her early childhood summers spent
suggests that this unique form of women’s literacy visiting the Pine Ridge reservation to her adoption by
was the result of complex social phenomena found in her Black grandparents after the murder of her
South China, while proposing that gender actually mother, from her life as the only person of color at a
determines the function and nature of the script. Roman Catholic boarding school to her journey to a
$38.50 pb, 0-7618-0014-X; $59.50 cl, -0013-1, Uni- life of a dancer and manager of dance companies in
versity Press of America. Europe. $26 cl, 0-87805-981-4, University Press of
A study of women prisoners from 1865 to 1915, Mississippi.
Gendered Justice in the American West: Women Mema’s House, Mexico City: On Transvestites,
Prisoners in Men’s Penitentiaries by Anne M. Butler Queens, and Machos by Annick Prieur is a unique
shows that the women, already faced with distinct account of Prieur’s days and nights at a home filled
gender disadvantages within western society, were with young gay boys who stop by every evening to
subjected to intense physical and mental violence chat, flirt, listen to music, smoke marijuana, and
while in prison. For women of color or of lower social maybe have sex. Since most of them live with their
class, she argues, the violence was even greater and parents, Mema’s house is a sanctuary where these
more frequent. $29.95 cl, 0-252-02281-5, University of boys meet to do all that can’t easily be done at home.
Illinois Press. Mema, an AIDS educator and the leader of this
Winter 1998 122
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsonv iI I Á
community of gay men, invited Prieur, a European J. Reagon examines the entire period during which
sociologist, to meet the community and conduct her abortion was illegal in the United States. She presents
vf ii oel ld enw co er , k a na dt h di es c e ih to u us ne. f o A ld s f a as sc i n shat ei n fg o lls ot wor sy t hof e tlo rv ane, s- t anh e a bex orp te ir oi nen c de us r ia nn gd tp he ir s s p pe ec rt ii ov de s a so f w w elo l m ae sn t hw oh so e g wo ht o
vestites in their daily activities — at their work as were close to them. Reagon also reconstructs the prac-
prostitutes or as hairdressers, at night having fun in tice and policing of abortions in this book. $29.95 cl,
the streets and in discos, on visits with their families, 0-520-08848-4, University of California.
and even in prisons. $16.95 pb, 0-226-68257-9, $50 cl, Of A Marriage Made in Heaven: The Sexual
-68256-0, University of Chicago Press. Politics of Hebrew and Yiddish Irena Klepfisz (A Few
Genders #25. Sex Positives: Cultural Politics of Words in the Mother Tongue) says, “Naomi Seidman has
Dissident Sexualities edited by Thomas Foster, written a provocative, scholarly, and very readable
Carol Siegel and Ellen E. Berry focuses on the recent story of the sexual politics behind the Jewish
“sex wars” in American feminism and especially ‘language wars,’ which were fought not only in liter-
l bes ab ti ean s c tu olt u r ie n, c b luro da ed en ss e xth ue a lt ie zr em ds rof a c s ie ax l w aa nr ds d ce- olonial bar edy r oj oo mur sn a al ns d a n kd i t ca ht e np so l i ot fic a fl l em she -e at nin d-g bs l o b odu t m in en t h ane d
representation, and explores a variety of historical women. Throughout her analysis, Seidman reveals a
contexts for understanding contemporary forms of wide range of knowledge: Jewish history, literary
sexual representation and the repression of such rep- criticism, linguistics, psychology and feminist theory.
resentations. $18.95 pb, 0-8147-2663-1; $55 cl, A Marriage Made in Heaven is a major contribution
-2664-X, University of New York Press. and should be required reading for anyone studying
Harriette Simpson Arnow’s (The Dollmaker) the divergent fates of Yiddish and Hebrew and the
Flowering of the Cumberland is back in print. men and women who were their champions.” $40 cl,
Another evocation of pioneering (1780 to 1803) in the 0-520-20193-0, University of California.
Cumberland River Basin, or what is now middle
Tennessee and southern Kentucky, this novel is a com-
panion piece to Arnow’s Seedtime on the Cumberland.
$17.95 pb, 0-8032-5928-X, University of Nebraska,
Bison Books. “With great insight and sensitivity, Esther
In Other Women: Lesbian/Bisexual Experience Madriz explores the important and timely issue of
and Psychoanalytic Views of Women, Beverly Burch women’s fear of crime. Madriz demonstrates clearly
reconceives fundamental psychoanalytic ideas in how fear of crime perpetuates gender inequalities
order to embrace women’s diverse sexualities. Explor- and contributes to the social control of women,
ing the ways in which lesbian, bisexual, and particularly poor African American and Latina
heterosexual women’s experiences may be incorpo- women. Nothing Bad Happens to Good Girls is a
rated into theory, she argues that the dynamics of gem.” —Ruth Sidel (Keeping Women and Children
lesbian and bisexual relationships are part of women’s Last: America's War on the Poor). $14.95 pb, 0-520-
development and desires rather than dysfunctions of 20855-2; $40 cl, -20291-0, University of California.
them. $15.50 pb, 0-231-10603-1; $39.50 cl, -10602-5, In Not Our Kind of Girl: Unraveling the Myths
Columbia University Press. of Black Teenage Motherhood, Elaine Bell Kaplan
In When Abortion Was a Crime: Women, Medi- challenges the assumption that the African Ameri-
cine, and Law in The United States, 1867-1973, Leslie can community condones teen pregnancy, single
Volume 20 Number 5/6 123 Winter 1998
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
parenting, and reliance on welfare. Especially telling themselves, and by state policies such as the rule
are the feelings of frustration, anger, and disappoint- against working for more than one employer. The
ment expressed by the mothers and grandmothers forms of discipline range from physical abuse to
Kaplan interviewed for the book. Kaplan's own intrusive regulations including restrictions on hair
experience as an African American teenage mother length and the prohibition of lipstick. Constable also
adds a personal dimension to Not Our Kind of Girl, looks at the myriad ways the workers resist these
and she offers substantial proposals for rethinking prohibitions. $16.95 pb, 0-8014-8382-4; $39.95 cl,
and reassessing the class factors, gender relations, -3331-2, Cornell University Press.
and racism that influence Black teenagers to become Convoy to Auschwitz: Women of the French
mothers. Foreword by Arlie Russell Hochschild. Resistance is Charlotte Delbo’s testament to 230
$15.95 pb, 0-520-20858-7, University of California. women political prisoners, most of whom had
worked for the French Resistance, who were deported
to Auschwitz on January 24, 1943. The author was one
of the 49 who survived. Here, Delbo recounts the life
history of each woman from her childhood to her
Gender and Health is the theme of Michigan involvement in the Resistance, from her arrest to her
Feminist Studies: An Interdisciplinary Journal, issue horrifying experience in the concentration camp. A
number 11 (1996—97). Articles include “The Racial devastatingly up-close and personal look at this
Model of Genetic Illness Identity: Breast Cancer group of 230 women who were deported to Ausch-
Research and Black Women” by Deborah R. Grayson, witz together, and their experiences in that living hell.
“Smoke and the ‘F’ Word: Women and Health” by An amazing and chilling work! This book, originally
Carol J. Boyd, “Feminism and the Politics of Experi- published in 1965, is now available in English for the
ence: The Case of the Detroit Feminist Women’s first time! $24.95 cl, 1-55553-313-2, Northeastern
Health Center” by Mary Wright, “Misreading the University Press.
Power Structure: Liberal Feminists’ Inability to Influ- Reconstructed Lives: Women & Iran’s Islamic
ence Childbirth” by Elizabeth A. Bogdan-Lovis, and a Revolution by Haleh Esfandiari is “the most com-
book review of Elisa J. Sobo’s Choosing Unsafe Sex: prehensive and thoughtful treatment I have ever
AIDS-Risk Denial Among Disadvantaged Women by seen on the subject of women in Iran, their roles both
Tova Perlmutter. $5. Order through MFS, University before and after the revolution, and their broader
of Michigan, 234 West Hall, Ann Arbor MI 48109; pattern of growth and involvement in society at
313-763-2047, email (mfseditors@umich.edu). many levels. Ms. Esfandiari’s scholarship involves
Natural Eloquence: Women Reinscribe Science highly original fieldwork under truly adverse
edited by Barbara T. Gates and Ann B. Shteir is a circumstances. This book is also extremely well
collection of essays examining the work of both lesser- written.” —Robin Wright (author and Middle East
known women of science from the 19th century and analyst). Very readable. $15.95 pb, 0-8018-5619-1;
prominent 20th-century figures such as Rachel Carson, $42.50 cl, -5618-3, Johns Hopkins.
Dian Fossey, and Diane Ackerman. It raises thoughtful
questions about marginalization, popularization, and
originality in science. $17.95 pb, 0-299-15484-X; $45 cl,
-1548-0, University of Wisconsin.
In Maid to Order in Hong Kong: Stories of Two recovered classics: Sherwood Bronner’s
Filipina Workers, Nicole Constable interweaves her Like Unto Like, a coming-of-age story that challenges
analysis with anecdotal evidence collected in inter- the limitations placed on 19th-century women ($14.95
views and shows how the lives of Filipina domestic pb, 1-57003-184-3, University of South Carolina Press)
workers in Hong Kong are disempowered and and To “Herland” and Beyond: The Life and Work
manipulated on a daily basis. Constable explains of Charlotte Perkins Gilman Ann J. Lane’s biography
how domestic workers are controlled and disci- of this important feminist ($17.50 pb, 0-8139-1742-5,
plined by employment agencies, by employers University Press of Virginia). O
Winter 1998 124
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
LÈil. BlSlt..
Compiled by Lisa McGowan and Jenn Tust The Artist's Way and Writing Down the Bones and will
ADDISON-WESLEY be heavily promoting the book. Foreword by Luisah
Teish. Author tour. $12 pb, 0-380-79142-0.
East to the Dawn: The Life of Amelia Earhart by Now in paperback: Vinegar Hill by A. Manette
Susan Butler offers a comprehensive account of the life Ansay. “Vinegar Hill is a modern-day Little House on
of this woman whose life and death has been much the Prairie gone mad.... Manette Ansay is a powerful
romanticized. Her real life was remarkable enough; storyteller with lyrical gifts and a wry, observant eye.”
Butler had access to newly available documents, and —Amy Tan. $12 pb, 0-380-73013-8.
in this book paints a picture of a fiercely independent To the Summit: A Woman's Journey into the
and strong-willed woman, an adventurous student, Mountains to Find Her Soul by Margo Chisolm and
an enterprising flier, a successful social worker and Ray Bruce. In 1985 Margo Chisolm, over 40, had a $1,000
aviation entrepreneur. $27.50 cl, 0-201-31144-5. —LM per week cocaine habit and was an obese, bulimic
AVON a hl ec ro h o lel gic s w crh ao m pc io nu gld . n F't i v ec l im yeb a r sa lf al ti eg rh t s ho ef bs et ca ai mrs e w ti ht eh o ou lt dest
Following non-fiction works Mad at Miles: A Black woman ever to reach the summit of Mt. Vinson, the
Woman's Guide to Truth and Deals with the Devil and highest peak on the continent of Antarctica. This book
Other Reasons to Riot, Pearl Cleage’s first novel What is about her journey to sobriety and mental and physical
Looks Like Crazy on an Ordinary Day... is the story health, as well as her discovery of the strength of her
of Ava Johnson, the fiery owner of an Atlanta beauty own spirit. $12.50 pb, 0-380-78884-5. —LM
parlor whose life takes a sudden turn when she
discovers that she is HIV positive. “After so much
contemporary African American fiction that strains to 4il:
be hip and funny but refuses to look seriously at the
problems faced by real Black people, Cleage, without BANTAM DOUBLEDAY DELL
succumbing to didacticism, delivers a work of intelli- Love is the common thread woven through the
gence and integrity.” —Publishers Weekly. $20 cl, stories in In Sunshine or in Shadow edited by Mary
0-380-97584-X. Maher, an anthology of writings by contemporary
Dorothy Randall Gray is an African American Irish women writers. Contributors include Mary
performer, novelist, poet, jewelry designer, and inter- Gordon, Maeve Binchy, and Kate Cruise O’Brien.
faith minister. Soul and Sentence: Freeing Your $21.95 cl, 0-385-32399-9, Delacorte Press.
Creative Spirit Through Writing is based on the Barbara Sher is a therapist and career counselor
workshops she teaches on the spirit as a potent source whose previous books (Wishcraft, Live the Life You Love,
Of creativity and personal transformation. The exer- etc.) have been big sellers. It’s Only Too Late If You
cises and activities in the book draw on everything Don’t Start Now: How to Create Your Second Life
from Greek mythology to Eastern and African spiritu- After 40 is for people who have half of their lives still
ality to James Brown, Popeye, and the “Twilight ahead of them — and years of invaluable experience
Zone.” The publisher compares Soul and Sentence to behind them — and are uncertain what to do with the
Volume 20 Number 5/6 125 Winter 1998
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
second half of their lives. $22.95 cl, 0-385-31505-8, Now in paper: Girls Only: Sleepovers, Squab-
Delacorte Press. bles, Tuna Fish, and Other Facts of Family Life by
Ana Nogales, Ph.D., has had a private therapy Alex Witchel. “Witchel has the ability to write about
practice specializing in the issues of Latinos since mothers, daughters, and sisters in a way that evokes
1980. In Dr. Ana Nogales’ Book of Love, Sex and a sense of connection.” —USA Today. $11.95 pb, 0-385-
Relationships: A Guide for Latino Couples, she uses 32395-6, Delta Trade Paperbacks.
intimate case histories of couples from diverse back- More than two thirds of all divorces are initiated
grounds to explore such issues at dating, sex, marital by women. In Marriage Shock: The Transformation
power struggles, raising children, and more. She of Women into Wives, Dalma Heyn (The Erotic Silence
points out how cultural attitudes and social pressures of the American Wife) argues that only by restructuring
affect the way Latinos relate to those they love, marriage so that it can nourish and support women
addressing common myths couples often wrestle instead of forcing them to adapt to a preconceived
with. ($23 cl, 0-7679-0118-5.) Simultaneous release in role, can the institution survive. $11.95 pb, 0-385-
Spanish language trade paperback edition: Amor, 32402-2, Delta Trade Paperbacks.
Intimidad y Sexo: Una Guia Para la Pareja Latina To Dance With the Devil: The New War on
($14 pb, 0-7679-0120-7, Broadway Books). Breast Cancer by Karen Stabiner is a behind-the-
THE VAGINA
What is V-Day?
Y V-Day is an organized
response against violence
toward women.
Y V-Day is a vision: A world where
women live safely and freely.
Y V-Day is a demand: Rape,
recognition, make childhood sexual abuse, battery, genital
them shout, weep mutilation, and bride burning must
and finally howl end now.
with laughter. Y V-Day is a day. We proclaim
Eve Ensler is Valentine's Day as V-Day, to celebrate
a brilliant women and end the violence. We will work
artist.” as long as it takes. We will not stop until
— Sapphire, the violence stops.
author of Y V-Day is a fierce, wild, unstoppable
Push. movement and community.
The Vagina Monologues, from Promote The Vagina Monologues and V-Day 1998 —
iE o nnv ee - t w rE aon dms el ae nr p’ as p s ehO rob bwi ae , c k A i s w f ra n or o md w- w Vain v iln a li ai ln ra dbg .le s t( c aC oo fa vn fll e r &F J e u b b cl lr i o ueu w s a t -r oi uny mp , e V1 r 4 si fl )ll : i ao e rr r (d 2 s 1 , i 2n S )“a l V e 5M as 7g a 2 ir f -nc 2o ah 0r 3 F 4f a r .o n i r e A n i ndnW dl- y o s t ”m co h re b en e u c ’s k tk t o iH t on ui ss t t o fr toy hr e Month.
0-375-75052-5 $11/C$14.95 paper V-Day Web site at www.feminist.com / vday / html.
Winter 1998 126 Volume 20 Number 5/6
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
ilI
Ënd. siale..
scenes account of the battle against breast cancer. FARRAR, STRAUS AND GIROUX
“Compelling, moving...will be compared to And the In her new novel, The House Gun, Nadine
Band Played On... [The book] interweaves policy and Gordimer explores the complex manifestations of
biography, science and heartbreaking reality.” —New love and loyalty between lovers of all kinds, and
cY ho ar bpk t e rT .i am $e 1s 3 c. 9B 5o o pkk b ,R e 0v -si 3e 8w 5. -. 3 1In 2c 8l 7u - d 3e , s —D a en lt a u p Td ra aLt de ed Pn Mae pw er- p toa r e An ct cs o man pd an ych i Mld er )e n i. s G a o r wd rim itee rr w(M hy o cS oo nn s’s i s tS et no tr ly y, wN ro in tee s
about the intricacy of human relations — how
BEACON PRESS fraught they are with possible difficulties and misun-
derstandings — and how these difficulties and
House of Houses by Pat Mora is a poetic, deeply misunderstandings translate into the politics of
creative biographical recreation of several generations society at large. $24 cl, 0-374-17307-9.
of the author's Mexican American family in El Paso, Eccentric Neighborhoods by Rosario Ferré (The
Texas. “The book’s twelve chapters are devoted to House on the Lagoon) is an imagined memoir about a
different family members, who illuminate in the daughter’s search for her mother. Elvira Vernet is cap-
stories they tell Mora both their own lives and their tivated by her father, a handsome, eloquent, and
relationship with the larger family... Woven in with successful man who was instrumental in the transfor-
these memories are recipes, fragments of songs and mation of Puerto Rico from a bucolic island into a
poetry, folk remedies, and jokes, all of the small vibrant, industrial society with all of its contradictions
matters that most reveal a family’s identity. “ —Kirkus and attendant ills. Yet to understand her obsession
Reviews. $24 cl, 0-8070-7200-1. with her father, Elvira must first come to terms with
To coincide with the publication of House of her mother, who died many years before, and whose
Houses, Beacon is reprinting Agua Santa: Holy family had roots in an old plantation culture that
Water. “Ms. Mora’s poems are proudly bilingual, an could not survive the era of mechanization. A look at
eloquent answer to purists who refuse to see language the psychological conflicts that determine the rela-
as something that lives and changes.” —New York ti0ons-hip3s b7etw4ee-n 1mot4her6s 3and8 da-ug1hte.rs . $2—4 c|,LM
Times Book Review. $11 pb, 0-8070-6829-2. LM
GEORGE BRAZILLER
At the center of Persian Brides by Dorit Rabin- Zil: l
yann (translated from the Hebrew by Yael Lotan) is
15-year-old Flora Ratoryan, pregnant and recently HARCOURT BRACE & COMPANY
abandoned by her husband, and her 11-year-old No Lease on Life by Lynne Tillman (Haunted
cousin, Nazie. Although the book covers only a few Houses, Motion Sickness, Cast in Doubt, The Broad
days in their lives, it branches out and back, encom- Picture: Essays) is a darkly comic novel which depicts
passing the lives and histories of many of the 24 hours in the life of a woman and a city on the edge.
inhabitants of the almond tree alley in the village $23 cl, 0-15-100272-X.
where Flora and Nazie live. “A fascinating and beau- Now in paper: A Booker Prize nomination for
tiful novel, overflowing with sensual descriptions of Shena Mackay’s The Orchard on Fire (the book was
a Jewish quarter in a small Persian village at the a finalist for the prize) brought this Scottish author to
beginning of the century... Persian Brides is a the attention to many who had not previously heard
st0ir-rin8g0 w7or6k.”- 1—4Bat3ya0 G-u0r .( Isr a—el). L$22M.50 cl, of her work. Harvest Books has recently published
this novel, which was also a Publishers Weekly Best
Volume 20 Number 5/6 127 Winter 1998
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Book of 1996 and a New York Times Notable Book of the The Antelope Wife by Louise Erdrich. ($24, 0-06-
Year, as well as Dreams of Dead Women’s Handbags: 018726-3, April.) One of America’s most celebrated
Collected Stories. Booklist called The Orchard on Fire authors offers a powerful story suffused with a Native
an intense, stunning, and original novel [that] American sense of magic. This story brings to life
captures a fifties childhood with heart-wrenching, bit- people who live in or around the city of Ojibway,
tersweet detail and timeless truths that will touch each Minnesota, that was originally an important hunting
reader.” ($12 pb, 0-15-600532-8.) “A collection of sto- ground for the nearby reservations. It portrays people
ries that are testimony to the power of language to of all backgrounds and is a mixture of vibrant cul-
transform even the most trivial experience into some- tures, ideas, and violence.
thing rich and strange.” —The Boston Review on Everyday Sacred Journal by Sue Bender. ($16,
D0re-am1s 5 of- 6Dea0d 0 W5om3en3’s- H6an.d)b ag s—. ($1L4 Mpb, 0-06-251543-8.) Journals that accompany spirituality
books work well for us so we will definitely order
this one. The book, Everyday Sacred, has a beautiful
il: c wov oe nr d a es r fw uel ll a ss a man p la ep p e oal f t o n oa u w riid se h mau ed nien tc e . a nA d warm
l wisdom.
HARPERCOLLINS Before The Change by Ann Louise Gittelma,
HARDCOVER M in.S g., C o. nN e.S . o($ f2 2 , t o0- d0 a6 y-2 ’5 s1 5 3 h9 o-X t, t eF se tb r u mary ed.) i cA ad ld r e is ss s- ues, this
Wasted by Marya Hornbacher. ($23, 0-06- co-author of Beyond Pritikin gives women the power
018739-5.) Lots of national advertising for this book to understand and control the dramatic, sometimes
may make it a great hardback seller. It is a memoir of frightening symptoms of perimenopause. Clear defi-
a young woman's lifelong love affair with bulimia nitions of the perimenopause phase as a period of up
and anorexia by a 23-year-old writer of virtuoso to ten years in which profound hormonal, physiologi-
prose. It is a devastating critique of the American cal, and psychological changes take place make this a
obsession with food and body image. great book and a thorough guide.
Loving Chloe by Jo-Ann Mapson. ($24, 0-06- Drawn from newspaper stories, private letters,
0172177, February.) Hardback fiction is a hard sell for subpoenaed testimony and previously unseen court
our store, but for fans of Jo-Ann Mapson this is a must documents, and personal reminiscences, Lonely
read. Hank and Chloe are back! This is the sequel to Hunters: An Oral History of Lesbian and Gay
the beloved Hank and Chloe (42,000 copies sold) and Southern Life, 1948—1968 by James Sears (Growing Up
features an unexpected love triangle seasoned with Gay in the South) chronicles the era from the baby
earthy humor and sexual magnetism. boom to the dawn of gay rights and the Stonewall
Bean Trees by Barbara Kingsolver. ($18, 0-06- Riot. $24 cl, 0-8133-2474-2, Westview.
017579-6, February.) To celebrate the tenth anniversary In Rereading the Rabbis: A Woman’s Voice,
of its publication, HarperCollins proudly offers this renowned Talmudic scholar Judith Hauptman reads
commemorative hardcover edition featuring a new, the texts with a feminist sensibility and provides new
easy-to-read design and a special, accessible price. and insightful interpretations of women’s place in the
Aphrodite by Isabel Allende. ($26, 0-06-017590-7, Talmudic tradition. $26 cl, 0-8133-3400-4, Westview.
March.) A book of stories, recipes and other aphro-
disiacs. Under the aegis of the Goddess of Love, Ms. PAPER
Allende uses her storytelling skills brilliantly to evoke Fatal Convictions by Shari P. Geller. ($6.50, 0-06-
the delights of food and sex. Using her considerable 101223-8.) In this strikingly original and ingenious
research, you will find here recipes from her mother, thriller, a serial killer is on a rampage, and no child
poems and stories from ancient literature, and per- molester in the San Fernando Valley is safe. Combin-
sonal anecdotes that prove she has become an ing “controversial” subject matter with witty
authority on aphrodisiacs, and, of course, love. Lots of dialogue and a powerful plot, this will be a new
media on this one! author for us, one we will definitely try.
Winter 1998 128
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
| + i
l
Hunger Point by Jillian Medoff. ($6.99, 0-06- course, we'll stock the paper and try to do an author
101227-0.) Hailed as “affecting” and funny (People) event, but perhaps the “simple” has been written to
and “wonderfully obsessive” (Vanity Fair), this is death. A good book — inwardly rich and outwardly
about an appealing and irreverent young woman simple.
struggling to come to terms with her sister’s eating Emotional Blackmail by Susan Forward, Ph.D.
disorder, her own obsessions with food and dieting, ($13, 0-06-092897-2.) Yes, Yes, Yes! If you really loved
and the pressures of growing up. Sounds suspiciously me.... After all I've done for you... How can you be so
like She's Come Undone by Wally Lamb to me. selfish... Clearly written, no-nonsense, and packed
Cook's Night Out by Joanne Pence. ($5.99, 0-06- with information, this will be a great sell for your
104396-6.) The fifth in this popular culinary mystery psychology section.
series, Cook's Night Out has the dynamic sleuthing Cutting Loose: Why Women Who End Their
sweethearts, Paavo Smith and Angelina Amalfi, inves- Marriages Do So Well by Ashton Applewhite. ($13,
tigating a crime much closer to their hearts than their 0-06-092888-3, April.) Written with authority, sensitiv-
stomachs. ity, and wit, this book offers the encouragement and a
A Woman's Place by Barbara Delinsky. ($7.50, 0-06- much-needed reality check for women who want to
109505-2.) While mainstream authors are very available improve their own lives.
in our city, we might sell a few copies of this. With a Glimpses of Grace by Madeleine L'Engle. ($13,
shelf-talker and some quick hand-selling we might be 0-06-065281-0.) Filled with spiritual insight. However,
able to get the jump on a few more sales. A truly strong it leans to the mainstream.
and successful woman is punished for doing what they That’s Funny, You Don’t Look Buddhist by
tell us we should be doing — doing it all. Sylvia Boorstein. ($12, 0-06-060958-3.) What’s a nice
Glimmering by Elizabeth Hand. ($6.99, 0-06- Jewish girl like you doing as a Buddhist teacher? With
101216-5, February.) Science fiction and fantasy wit and down-to-earth charm, she answers the ques-
woven together into one faultless tapestry by an tions quite well.
award-winning author. It captures the unspoken On My Own At 107 by Sarah L. Delany. ($10,
dreams and unspeakable nightmares of a generation. 0-06-2514865, February.) A spirited memoir and, at the
same time, a loving tribute to her sister and a life-
affirming meditation on beginning again.
il: Be A Goddess! by Francesca De Grandis. ($13,
0-06-251505-5, February.) Professional Celtic shaman
TRADE PAPER Francesca De Grandis shows readers how to tap into
their Goddess power, and unveils the mysteries of
Natural Woman, Natural Menopause by magic as a toll for spiritual development. National ads
Christine Conrad and Marcus Laux. ($13, 0-06- in SageWoman magazine.
092894-8.) We sold a couple of this book in hardback, Lesbian Love Companion by Marny Hall. ($15,
so we'll stock the paper edition. Everything a woman 0-06-251431-8, April.) Not another Cinderella story.
needs to know about plant-derived hormone replace- Popular author and lesbian therapist Marny Hall
ment therapy is covered. tells it like it really is in this refreshingly sane and
Circle of Simplicity by Cecile Andrews. ($12, uproariously funny look at lesbian love. Lots of press
0-06-092872-7, February.) While this is a local author on this one!
for us and she is very prominent in our community, Gender Politics in Sudan: Islamism, Socialism,
we haven't had much success with the hardback. Of and the State by Sondra Hale. “Hale thoroughly and
Volume 20 Number 5/6 129 Winter 1998
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
quite creatively explores the various gendered Larry Dossey’s Prayer Is Good Medicine: How
spheres of Sudanese women’s culture, ethnic identity, to Reap the Healing Benefits of Prayer ($22 c|,
and resistance... Especially innovative about this 0-06-251423-7) may be a good choice for stores that
work is that it incorporates the most exciting recent stock books on alternative healing. Dossey is also
theoretical works on nationalism and women’s stud- the author of Healing Words (0-06-250252-2) and
ies and directly engages the pressing questions they husband of author Barbara Dossey who co-edited a
raise.” —Ufahamu: Journal of the African Activist wonderful book entitled Rituals of Healing: Using
Association. ($22 pb, 0-8133-3370-9, short discount, Imagery for Health and Wellness (Bantam, $14.95,
Westview.) A New Woman of Japan: A Political Biog- pb, 0-553373471). Another book for the health
raphy of Katô Shidzue by Helen M. Hopper traces the section is Shiatsu for Women (Thorsons, $17 pb,
life of one of Japan's most powerful female activists 1-085538-482-5).
and politicians. An early founder of Japan’s birth con- Prayers for Bobby: A Mother’s Coming to Terms
trol movement, Katô advocated for a wide range of with the Suicide of Her Gay Son by Leroy Aarons is
women’s rights before and after World War II. ($22 pb, now available in paperback ($12, 0-06-251123-8), as is
0-8133-3422-5, short discount, Westview.) Sue Bender’s Everyday Sacred: A Woman’s Journey
— Sherry Thompson Home ($13, 0-06-251290-0). Another edition of Anne
New Woman Books/Kent WA Wilson Schaef’s classic Meditations for Women Who
and FBN Do Too Much (and who doesn’t?) is also available
HARPERSANFRANCISCO ($5.99 pb, 0-06-251437-7).
Laura Evans is a world-class moutain climber 0-04-4 4P 0o 9si 4t 3i -v 5e )l y e dW ito edm e bn y: L Si uv ei n g O ' Sw uli lt ih v a nA ID anS d ( $ K1 a8 t e pb,
whose aspiration to climb the highest peaks on all Thompson comes with a rave review by activist-
seven continents was derailed by a breast cancer author Sarah Schulman: “By combining the
which made it difficult for her to walk even a few individual experiences with concrete analysis...the
blocks. Five years after her initial diagnosis, Evans authors treat each reader as a potential activist and
and 16 other breast cancer survivors climbed Mt. inspire us to action.”
Aconagua in the Andes. This winter, Evans and the —Audrey May, Meristem (with thanks to my friends
Expedition Inspiration she helped found, plan to scale at Burke's Bookstore for their assistance)
Mt. Vinson in Antarctica. Fueled by the conviction that In At The Root of this Longing: Reconciling a
every person has a personal mountain to climb, The Spiritual Hunger and a Feminist Thirst, author
Climb of My Life: A Miraculous Journey from the Carol Lee Flinders (Enduring Grace) identifies four key
Edge of Death to the Victory of a Lifetime ($22 cl, points at which the paths of spirituality and feminism
0-06-258658-0), is Evans’ story. Proceeds from the sale seem to collide: vowing silence vs. finding voice,
of this book go to Expedition Inspiration. relinquishing ego vs. establishing “self,” resisting
Another inspiring read is In Our Own Voices: desire vs. reclaiming the body, and enclosure vs. free-
Four Centuries of American Women’s Religious dom. The book is a memoir of Flinder’s personal
Writing ($18 pb, 0-06-066840-7) edited by feminist journey to integrate her feminism into her spiritual
scholars Rosemary Radford Ruether and Rosemary practice. $20 cl, 0-06-251314-1.
Skinner Keller. This “popular history of the multi- Sacred Circles: A Guide to Creating Your Own
cultural and multifaith spirituality of American Women’s Spirituality Group by Robin Carnes and
women” includes excerpts from diaries, letters, ser- Sally Craig is a guidebook for women wanting to
mons, speeches, essays and books from writers as form groups in which to tell their stories, challenge
diverse as Mother Jones and Zora Neale Hurston. A one another, and explore their relationship with the
related title is a newly revised edition of Women and sacred. The authors share stories of how they and
Religion: The Original Sourcebook of Women in other women have started and sustained groups,
Christian Thought ($18 pb, 0-06-061409-9) edited by giving readers the practical tools they need to create
Elizabeth Clark and Herbert Richardson and origi- and strengthen their own special circle. Inspira-
nally published 20 years ago. tional quotes throughout. The publisher is very
Winter 1998 130
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
ril. sÍ Jl
ll- ni
interested in promoting this book through authorless her family. In a web of correspondence, her daughters,
events. Ask your sales rep for a Sacred Circle Event husband, and grandchildren speak to and through
Kit. $16 pb, 0-06-251522-5. A HarperSanFrancisco each other, recasting and reinterpreting events back
Paperback Original. home, and revealing themselves in the telling. $25 cl,
New in paperback: Set against a backdrop of the 0-8050-5163-5.
vibrant and sometimes harrowing world of a Chinese New in paperback: Guided Tours of Hell:
American family, Monkey King by Patricia Chao is Novellas by Francine Prose. The less-than-innocents
the story of 28-year-old Sally Wang, whose mental abroad in these two short novels are Americans in
breakdown and sojourn in a hospital set her on the Europe, whose shocking, bewildering trips change
path to memory and recovery. “An elegant first forever their ideas about history, reality, politics, and
novel.... The pace is quick, the writing artful.... Chao sex. $12 pb, 0-8050-5586-X.
has created a vivid cast of female characters who Back in print: Bigfoot Dreams by Francine Prose.
breathe fresh insight into the lonely horrors of incest Vera lives in New York with her daughter and works
anHd daeprresspion.e” —rPeFoplel. a $1m3 pb,i 0n-06g-092o893.-X , LM for a sleazy supermarket tabloid in this sharp, funny
cpombedy, o f 0 Am-e8ric0an5 p0sy-ch4ol8ogy6 0and- Xpop. cu lt—ure.L $1M2
HENRY HOLT & COMPANY
Completely Queer: The Gay and Lesbian
Encyclopedia by Steve Hogan and Lee Hudson Ail:
chronicles lesbian and gay life and achievement l
worldwide through nearly 500 in-depth articles, each HOUGHTON MIFFLIN
of which includes a list of resources for further infor- Houghton Mifflin has just published a beautiful
mation. The guide aims to offer a true balance of slipcased edition of Margaret Atwood’s The Journals
information for lesbians and gay men — discussing of Susanna Moodie, the poem cycle that gave rise to
their common concerns as well as their different Alias Grace. The book is boldly illustrated with origi-
histories and interests. 672 pp, 200 b&w photographs. nal serigraphs by artist Charles Patcher. 834" by 1034",
$50 cl, 0-8050-3629-6. 93 pages, most of which have full-page illustrations
Karen Joy Fowler is the author of the beautifully with text worked in. $30 cl, 0-395-88043-2. —LM
written, imaginative and unusual historical novel,
Sarah Canary. Her new book is Black Glass: Short MACMILLAN
Fictions. “[Karen Fowler’s] willingness to take J.K. Lasser’s Gay and Lesbian Financial Plan-
detours, her unapologetic delight in the odd historical ning Guide: How to Manage Your Finances in a
fact, her shadowy humor and the elegant unruliness Straight World by Greg A. Diggins, CPA, CFP focuses
of her language, all elevate her story from the pica- on financial planning in a system that was not
Rreesvqiueew . t o$ 2 3t h ec l ,g r0a-n8d0.5”0 - 5—5T57h-e6 . New York Times Book ed re as li .g n Ie td h f eo lpr s s la em sbe i- as ne sx ac no du p l ge as y so r i d g enay ti f p ye o fp il ne a nin ci a lgen-
At the center of Where the Road Goes by Joanne planning issues common to society in general, and to
Greenberg (I Never Promised You a Rose Garden, In This the gay community specifically. It also helps gays and
Sign) is Tig, a grandmother who leaves her family for lesbians foresee and plan life events likely to affect
a year to join a walk across North America in the spirit their financial status, and successfully develop finan-
Of her activist youth. Although physically separated cial strategies that navigate their finances around
from them, Tig remains the nexus of relations within these events. $19.95 pb, 0-02-862222-7.
Volume 20 Number 5/6 131 Winter 1998
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
NEW PRESS away from her two baby daughters, a violent
Elisabeth Gille was five years old when her husband, and the only life she’s ever known in rural
mother, the Russian writer Irene Nemirovsky, was Cayro, Georgia. Ten years later she finds herself
taken to Auschwitz, never to be seen again. With her living in L.A. with her third daughter, no money to
sister, Gille was hidden in the French countryside until speak of, and an alcohol problem. So Delia packs up
the end of the war. Shadows of a Childhood is a her Datsun and her daughter and goes back to Cayro
fictionalized account of one girl's coming to terms to reclaim her two abandoned daughters — and her
with the war. “Shadows of a Childhood moves us not life. In Cavedweller Dorothy maps the unexplored
only with the story of a little Jewish girl exiled from recesses of the human heart and the lives of four
one milieu to another, from one life to another, but also women at the place where violence, and what
through the sober delicacy with which this tale is redeems it, intersect. ($23.95 cl, 0-525-94167-3,
told.” —Elie Wiesel. 144 pp, $23 cl, 1-56584-388-6. Dutton.) Also available in audio: ($23.95,
Distributed by W.W. Norton. —LM 1561007889, Brilliance). —JT
The poems in An Octave Above Thunder: New
NEW WORLD LIBRARY and Selected Poems by Carol Muske make clear
In Creating True Prosperity, Shakti Gawain Muske’s awareness of the complicated web into
(Creative Visualization, Living in the Light) shows how which the personal and the political, the familial and
to create prosperity which includes satisfying rela- the feminist, are woven. $14.95 pb, 0-14-058794-2. A
tionships, happiness and fulfillment. $15 cl, Penguin paperback original.
1-880032-99-6; $11.95 cassette, 1-57731-055-1. —LM In Radclyffe Hall: A Woman Called John, Sally
NORTON C til oin ne s d br eta ww es e nf r o thm e n we rw it i nm ga st ,e r li ia fl e ,t o a n e dx p mlo ir le ie ut h oe f c to hn in sec-
Growing Up Gay is Rita Reed’s response to the influential, ultra flamboyant lesbian novelist. The
high rate of suicide among gay and lesbian teens. British edition of this book was one of Silver Moon’s
Reed, a staff photographer for the Minneapolis Star top ten bestsellers last year. $27.50 cl, 0-87951-831-6,
Tribune, found two teens who allowed her to spend Overlook Press.
time with them, documenting their day-to-day lives The Brontës: A Life in Letters is Juliet Barker’s
and the things they faced as out gay teens in the follow-up to her 1995 landmark biography, The
Midwest. In the text which accompanies the photos, Brontës. Through absorbing and entertaining letters,
Amy and Jamie talk about coming out to their fami- the family — Charlotte, Emily, Anne, Branwell, and
lies, the prejudice and harassment they are subjected their father, Reverend Patrick Brontë — tell their own
to in school, the pain of rejection and the joys of first story. $35 cl, 0-87951-838-3, Overlook Press.
love. Reed conceived of this project as a way to sup- New in paperback: Tailored specifically for
port teens that felt isolated and alone because of their women, A Woman’s Guide to Martial Arts by Monica
sexuality, and Amy and Jamie were courageous McCabe-Cardoza, answers questions that beginners
enough to share their lives with her to help make this often have about making a commitment to a martial
h0ap-p3en9.3 8-⁄321" 6 x5 910-"9, ,6 0 $du3o5to n ec lp,h o to-s0. 4$1099.952 - p5b,. -LM a cr ot ns s p or fo g dr ia fm fe. r eI nt t c o mve arr ts ia s l u c ah rt ss u sb tj yec let ss , a ws a yth s e t op r o os v e ra cn od me
common fears beginners often face, what to look for
and what to avoid in a school, and what questions to
ask a potential instructor. $13.95 pb, 0-87951-843-X,
Overlook Press.
Aung San Suu Kyi, human-rights activist and
Cavedweller, Dorothy Allison’s second novel, leader of Burma’s National League for Democracy,
about running away and running back, is due out in was sentenced to six years’ house arrest in 1989 by the
April and it looks great! This time, Dorothy tells the ruling military junta. While imprisoned she contin-
story from a mother’s point-of-view following Delia, ued to be engaged in the fight for freedom, and her
who climbs on a rock-and-roll tour bus and rides vision, humanity, and commitment to political and
Winter 1998 132
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
ll. sE
ethnic harmony won her party an overwhelming Berzon, Ph.D., (Permanent Partners) offers specific
victory in the elections of May 1990. Letters from advice for those in long-term relationships (three
Burma is a collection of writings from her imprison- years and longer) who are coping with the inevitable
ment. Aung San Suu Kyi is the winner of the 1991 surprises, complications, and concerns about identi-
Nobel Peace Prize and the Sakharov Prize for Free- ties merging, sex waning, or the inability to resolve
dom. of Thought. $13.95 pb, 0-14-026403-5. This is a conflicts. $12.95 pb, 0-452-27747-7, Plume.
Penguin paperback original. ¡Yo! by Julia Alvarez. From the author of How the
New in paperback: The Gangster of Love by Garcia Girls Lost Their Accents (and with some of the
Jessica Hagedorn. “Playful, inventive.... Asks serious same characters), ¡Yo! is an imaginative and exuberant
questions about family, exile, identity, [and] the prob- exploration of a woman’s soul, a meditation on the
lems of learning to operate in another writing life, and a lyrical account of the immi-
language.” —Francine Prose, The New grant’s search for identity and a
York Times Book Review. $12.95 pb, 0-14- | place in the world. $11.95 pb, 0-452-
015970-3. 27918-6, Plume.
Comfort Woman by Nora Okja Written from a parent's point-of-
Keller. “[Comfort Woman] combines the view, Willie: Raising and Loving a
familial intimacy of Louise Erdrich’s Child with Attention Deficit Disor-
early novels with the fierce, historical der by Ann Colin provides a unique
magic of Toni Morrison’s Beloved... A _| perspective of this condition which
powerful book about mothers and _ | affects nearly ten percent of school-
daughters and the passions that bind | „| aged children in this country. “An
one generation to another.” —The New | | inspiration for anyone coping with a
York Times. $12.95 pb, 0-14-026335-7. child with special needs.” —New York
Desert Places by Robyn Davidson Daily News. $12.95 pb, 0-14-024908-7.
(Tracks). Davidson’s account of the Bridgeport Bus by Maureen
year she traveled with the Rabari, Howard is the luminous and funny
pastoral nomads of northwest India, story of Mary Agnes Keely who, at
on their migratory cycle. “Searing, midlife, ditches her Irish Catholic
deeply felt, richly evocative: She enters upbringing and the emptiness of small
into the mire with her subjects and details her experi- town life for the chaos of Manhattan.
ences in affecting, lyrical and yes, often rawly honest, Mary Agnes taps hidden resources in a gradual
prose. This is an altogether different kind of travel process of creative self-discovery, realizing trium-
book.” —San Jose Mercury News. $12.95 pb, 0-14- phantly that “it was no great sin to be, at last, alone.”
026797-2. ($10 pb, 0-14-005566-5.) This book is being repub-
Prospect: The Journey of an Artist by Anne lished to coincide with the publication of Howard’s
Truitt. In her earlier memoirs, Daybook and Turn, Truitt new novel, A Lover's Almanac.
charted her life as an artist, mother and teacher. In First published in 1942, The Way of the Story-
Prospect she looks at the far end of her life's arc and teller by Ruth Sawyer is distinguished from other
feels the urgent need to reevaluate what she has done. books on storytelling by its blend of literary history,
$12.95 pb, 0-14-026768-9. criticism, analysis, personal anecdote, and how-to
In The Intimacy Dance: A Guide to Long-Term instructions. Includes a comprehensive reading and
Success in Gay and Lesbian Relationships Betty story list. $12.95 pb, 0-14-004436-1. —LM
Volume 20 Number 5/6 133 Winter 1998
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
PUTNAM
Danzy Senna’s debut novel, and an “unusual exami-
In Singing in the Comeback Choir ($24.95 cl, nation of racial and family identity.” Two sisters are
0-399-14298-3), Bebe Moore Campbell tells the story of “so close that they have created a private language,
Maxine, an African American woman in the process of yet to the outside world they can’t be sisters: Birdie
balancing her working-class background and her cur- appears to be white, while Cole is dark enough to fit
rent work, which she worries is of questionable social in with the other kids at the Afrocentric school they
value. Maxine is called back to her old Philadelphia attend. For Birdie, Cole is the mirror in which she can
neighborhood, and to the home of her grandmother see her own Blackness.” The family members are split
Lindy, whose once laughter-filled house has become apart, and Birdie “must learn to navigate the white
dim and lifeless, mirroring the blighted neighbor- world” so that she can “set off in search of her sister.”
hood. Maxine realizes that the neighborhood and her In Sweat Your Prayers, Gabrielle Roth teaches us
grandmother “have been the source of her own “to realize our potential for ecstasy as we experience
strength and success, and she is moved to help both movement.” She takes us on a “journey through five
reclaim their glory.” Bebe Moore Campbell “creates a universal rhythms — flowing, staccato, chaos, lyrical,
moving story of hope and redemption, of faith and and stillness. These rhythms can free the body and
commitment that can make any comeback possible.” spirit from ordinary consciousness and catalyze
The Seamstress caught my eye, as it would seem motion deep in the psyche.” Sweat Your Prayers
to be a wonderful memoir to read in conjunction with ($22.95 cl, 0-87477-878-6) reveals a “method for
Elana Dykewomon’s Beyond the Pale (Press Gang). unleashing a natural sense of movement, resulting in
Although set in a different time and place, both works both personal power and presence of the soul.”
tell the story of young Jewish women surviving war- There are several new biographies and collec-
time and controlling their own destinies to the tions which are appropriate for feminist bookstores,
greatest extent possible. In The Seamstress ($24.95 cl, though the collections are on the pricey side. Sally
0-399-14322-X), Sara Tuvel Bernstein shares the story Cline has written Radclyffe Hall: A Woman Called
of how she and three other young women survived John ($27.50 cl, 0-87951-831-6, Overlook Press). Toni
the horrors of life in a concentration camp. Morrison has edited James Baldwin, Early Novels
In The Bond Between Women: A Journey to and Stories ($35 cl, 1-883011-51-5, 992 pp, Library of
Fierce Compassion ($24.95 cl, 1-57322-088-4, River- America) and James Baldwin, Collected Essays ($35
head, April), China Galland celebrates “wrathful cl, 1-883011-52-3, 896 PpP, Library of America).
goddessicons around the world, and how these arche- Catharine Stimpson and Harriet Chessman have
types form an unexpected bond between women... edited a two-volume edition of Gertrude Stein’s
Around the world, women are working for justice, for works, Gertrude Stein: Writings 1902-1932 ($40 cl,
healing, and the lives of these women reveal an 1-883011-40-X, 960 PP, March, Library of America)
unusual source of strength: the fierceness of compas- and Gertrude Stein, Writings 1932-1946 ($40 cl,
sion...and the fierce divine feminine, which arises 1-883011-41-8, 864 pp, March, Library of America).
when the world is on the brink of destruction.” —Dylan Besk
Julia Cameron (Artist's Way, Vein of Gold, Heart Lioness Books/Sacramento
Steps) has written Blessings ($9.95 pb, 0-87477-906-5,
March), “an inspirational book of prayers that brings
to the heart and mind a consciousness of gratitude and il:
appreciation.” Cameron's readers may also enjoy
Blessings on audiotape ($10.95, 0-87477-907-3), read RANDOM HOUSE
by Julia Cameron, with music by Tim Wheater. Also In Black and Blue by Anna Quindlen (Object Les-
available is The Artist's Way: Morning Pages Journal sons, One True Thing, Living Out Loud), Fran Benedetto
($14.95 pb, 0-87477-886-7), a companion volume to tells the story of how her marriage turns violent, and
The Artist's Way. Using this book, “readers will find what finally made her run away to start a new life with
privacy, a portable writing room.” her son under a new name. Living in fear of discovery,
Caucasia ($24.95 cl, 1-57322-091-4, Riverhead) is yet also with increasing confidence, freedom, and
Winter 1998 134
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
LIH , + È
hope, Fran unravels the complex threads of family, spiritual healers, and suffragettes — whose defiance
identity, and desire that shape a woman's life, even as of expectations and conformity was sometimes dan-
she struggles to create a new one. $22 cl, 0-375-50051-0. gerous, often arduous, and always inspiring. “Battle
A$lso2 a4va,ila b le 0 in- 3au7dio5: -ab4rid0ge1d, 9 4 0 ca-ss3ett.e s, 4— hoLursM. draws on memoirs, letters, diaries, legend, and
historical portraits to tell compelling stories of women
Terra Incognita: Travels in Antarctica by Sara from all walks of life.” —Publishers Weekly. $14 pb,
Wheeler, the first woman ever sponsored by the U.S. 0-609-80183-X, Harmony.
National Science Foundation in Antarctica, is a lively Somebody Else’s Children: The Courts, the
account of Antarctic expeditions, including the Kids, and the Struggle to Save America’s Troubled
author's own. “A superbly written book to add to the Families by John Hubner and Jill Wolfson delves into
ca0non- o6f 7pola9r -lite4rat4ure0.” 7—B8ery-l XBainb.r idg e.S $2J3 cTl, the daily workings of one American family court sys-
tem, providing an intimate look at the lives of the
children whose fate it decides. “You wouldn't expect a
book that explains the inner workings of the juvenile
4i Ili:s justice and child welfare systems in Santa Clara
RH-Crown C wo ou un ldt ny ', t C ea xl pif eo cr t n i ta h, i st o 3 8b 4e ps ap ge el l b ti on mdi en g t o r e ka ed ein p g . y oY uo u up late
In A Room of Her Own: Women’s Personal at night. But Somebody Else’s Children is and does.”
Spaces by Chris Casson Madden, photographs by —Houston Chronicle. $14 pb, 0-609-80170-8, Crown.
Jennifer Lévy, women from all walks of life intro- Visits: Caring for an Aging Parent: Reflections
duce the reader into the sanctuaries they have and Advice by Lee Ann Chearney is an affirma-
created for themselves. From a sewing room to a tion/self-help book that gives support and practical
corner in a busy kitchen, from a potting shed to a tent advice to those who are providing care for a parent
in the garden, these spaces provide nurturance for who is struggling with the effects of aging or illness.
the body, mind, and spirit. Maya Angelou’s and The book includes a resources section which lists
Oprah Winfrey's rooms are among the treasures organizations and agencies available to assist
found in this beautiful full-color gift book. $30 cl, caregivers. $10 pb, 0-609-80059-0, Three Rivers.
0-517-59939-2, Clarkson N. Potter. —JT Finch, the narrator in A Gracious Plenty by Sheri
Moments of Grace: Meeting the Challenge to Reynolds, was badly disfigured as a child in a house-
Change by Patrice Gaines (Laughing in the Dark). hold accident. Now a loner in her forties, she inherits
Gaines offers her own story of how she broke free of a her father’s job as custodian of the town’s cemetery.
self-perpetuating cycle of heroin use and relationships While tending to the flowers and shrubs around the
with abusive men to become a responsible mother and stones and monuments, she begins to hear voices —
successful writer and reporter. She also relates the faint buzzings that grow more distinct as she learns to
testimonies of other people of various ages, races, and listen. When she finally speaks, the dead answer back,
religions to motivate and inspire readers to meet the telling their stories in a remarkable chorus of regrets,
difficult challenge of changing their lives. $12 pb, explanations and revelations. Sheri Reynolds is also
0-609-80171-6, Crown. the author of The Rapture of Canaan, an Oprah Book
In Hearts of Fire: Great Women of American Club selection. ($21 cl, 0-609-60225-X, Harmony.)
Lore and Legend, Kemp Battle celebrates a diverse Reading Group Guide available: (0-676-53379-5;
array of folk heroines and other great American packet of 5). Also available in audio: abridged, 2 cas-
women — midwives, teachers, medicine women, settes, 3 hours. ($18, 0-375-40167-9.)
Volume 20 Number 5/6 135 Winter 1998
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Making the Gods Work for You: The Astrologi- abridged, 0-375-40173-3; $39.95 unabridged, -40171-
rca el v e L ala sn g au a ng ee w o f w at yh e o fP s y uc sih ne g b my y C thar o al nin de sW ym. bC oa lss e y for 7,A Apprilr) aindl )la.r ge p—rint L ($2i6n tpd, 0a-3 75 -7B022r3-7y, ant
self-understanding and to change life for the better. Charis Books & More, Atlanta
$25 cl, 0-609-60058-3, Harmony. —LM
The Name of War: King Philip’s War and the
Origins of American Identity by Jill Lepore is the
story of the excruciating racial war — colonists
against Indians — that erupted in New England in
1675. Leoire explores how it was written about, and
Paradise, Toni Morrison. ($25 cl, 0679433740, how both the war and the words helped to shape an
February.) The write-up for this book uses words like American consciousness. $30 cl, 0-679-44686-9. —JT
“extraordinary” and “breathtaking,” but does not
seem as if the reviewer had a clue what the book is RH-Pantheon
actually about. Butit is Toni Morrison and it is her new Blues Legacies and Black Feminism: Gertrude
novel and so many of us have been waiting forit. “Ma” Rainey, Bessie Smith, and Billie Holiday,
Perfect for Black History Month as it spans Recon- Angela Y. Davis. ($27.50 cl, 067945005x, February.)
struction to the 70s. Also in audio, read by the author Talk about a book for both of the History months!
7($ 02 25 1. 79 -5 2, ) . 0375401792) and large print ($25 tp, 0-375- Tvhis e boroks siouandls a m—azing , coWmpelloingw, an.d c on-trLo-B
Inheritance, Indira Ganesan. ($22 cl, 0679434429, In Red-tails in Love: Mysteries of Urban Wildlife
nFe ob vr eu l a r sey t. ) iS no u In nd ds i a .like a wonderful coming-of-age oM fa r rie e d -W tai in len d c hh ar won ki sc ,l e s w ht oh e b uf ii lv te - ay e a nr e- sl to n og n s a ag a h igof h a le dp ga ei r of
Pandora: New Tales of the Vampires, Ann Rice. a building on New York City’s Fifth Avenue, as well as
($19.95 cl, 0375401598, March.) The first in a new series the adventures of Central Park’s other wildlife residents
of novels set in Paris, the time now, with a character and the more-human birdwatchers. $24 cl, 0-679-43997-
who tells her story starting in the time of Caesar 8; compact counter display 0-676-53793-6. JT
Augustus.
Other Powers: The Age of Suffrage, Spiritual- RH-Shambhala
ism, and the Scandalous Victoria Woodhull, The Heroine’s Journey Workbook, Maureen
Barbara Goldsmith. ($30 cl, 0394555368, March.) Just Murdock. ($17 pb, 1570622558, April.) Designed for
in time for Women’s History Month, this is a combi- the individual reader or to use in groups to explore a
nation of history and biography, set at the turn of the woman's development and creation of her own story.
last century. Heaven’s Face, Thinly Veiled: A Book of Spiri-
When Memory Speaks: Reflections on Autobi- tual Writing by Women, edited by Sarah Anderson.
ography, Jill Kerr Conway. ($22 cl, 0679445935, ($15.95 pb, 1570623635, April.) Excerpts from spiri-
March.) As she looks at writers over the centuries who tual writings over the centuries and from many
h asa sv ue m pd to in oe n s a u at no db i o pg er ra sp oh ny al, cC eo nn sw ora sy h i pe x a am s in shes e c cu omltu -ral tWraditoionms, tehins b’osok seHrveis s ats oanrothyer . p a rt— ofLB
pares the writings of men and women.
The All-True Travels and Adventures of Lidie
Newton, Jane Smiley. ($26 cl, 0679450742, April.) Zil: l
A all bt eh io t u g fh ic t it oh nis a l. i s S ea t n ino v e 1l 8, 5 5i t a nis d a dls eo a l iw ngo m wen it’s h h ai bs ot lo ir -y, RH-Schocken
tionists and slaveholders and one woman’s Black on White: Black Writers on What it Means
experiences. Plus, who could pass her up after all the to Be White, edited by David R. Roediger. ($24,
hoopla over A Thousand Acres, even though I was not 0-8052-4146-9, April.) Toni Morrison gives this book
crazy about Moo. Also available in audio ($24 her okay, so I think that means we should take a look.
Winter 1998 136
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
ET „L.I
fËnl. si
Inocludted h are e Zorra Ne alew Hursrtoni, tbelel hrookss a.n d 50IB Among Warriors: A Woman Martial Artist in
Tibet, Pamela Logan. ($13 pb, 0375700765, March.)
RH-Times Catalogue copy says, “A book that will captivate any-
one interested in Buddhism, the martial arts, or Tibet,”
are o fW teh ne n o vt er re wat hm ele mnt e d e n bd ys , a b r se ea ns st e c oa fn c ber e w s ilu dr ev ri mvo er ns t sio s I thwinkr iitt tis e wnor t h b chyec k inag ouwt, oesmpeciaalnly . s in cIeL iBt
and anxiety about how to move from “I have breast
cancer” back to “I am leading a normal life.” Living In Personal History: A Memoir, Katharine
Beyond Breast Cancer: A Survivor’s Guide For Graham , the woman who piloted the Washington Post
When Treatment Ends and The Rest of Your Life through the crises of the Pentagon Papers, Watergate,
Begins by Marisa C. Weis, M.D. and Ellen Weiss is and a pressmen’s strike and turned it into a great
“...an upbeat self-help manual for women making newspaper, now tells her story. $15 tp, 0-375-70104-4.
this transition [which] captures the broad range of Audio book also available: $18, 0-679-45818-2. —JT
challenges that women experience after treatment
ends. The book provides practical solutions to com- The Prospect Before Her: A History of Women
mon problems as well as a sensitive discussion of in Western Europe, 1500-1800 by Olwen Hufton.
important feelings.” —Patricia A. Ganz, M.D., From Jeannette Clerc, beheaded on charges of witch-
Professor, UCLA Schools of Medicine and Public craft in sixteenth-century Geneva, to Catharina
Health. 506 pp, including a list of helpful organiza- Schrader, an eighteenth-century Dutch midwife
tions and an extensive list of suggestions for further whose.memoirs record the delivery of 4,000 infants,
reading. $27.50 cl, 0-8129-2689-7. —LM Hufton provides an invaluable historical framework
RH-Villard for women’s issues that are still with us — from
childbirth, marriage, and family to the challenges of
The Vagina Monologues, Eve Ensler, foreword the workplace. 688 pp, 24 pages of b&w illustrations.
by Gloria Steinem. ($11 pb, 0375750525, February.) I $18 pb, 0-679-76818-1. —LM
must have been out of it, but I did not know about
her winning the Obie for this work — I never heard
of it, but I am convinced by the catalogue that we ıl:
haaven tod h av e i tmhis, pthaot irt tis afunnnyt a.n d e—mpowLeriMng SIMON & SCHUSTER
Judith Viorst’s last book, Necessary Losses, was an
RH-Vintage inquiry into facing loss and death. In Imperfect
The House That Race Built: Essays by Toni Control: Our Lifelong Struggles with Power and
Morrison, Angela Davis, Cornel West, and Others on Surrender, she examines the question of control —
the State of Race and Gender Relations in America self-control, control of the events of in one’s life,
Today, edited and introduced by Wahneema Lubiano. control of others. $24 cl, 0-684-80139-6.
($14 pb, 0679760687, March.) Very challenging and Holding Out: A Novel by Anne Faulk. Lauren
important — good for both Black History and Fontaine, a 36-year-old financial executive and single
Women’s History months. mother with a wicked wit and a tenacious sense of
What Girls Learn, Karin Cook. ($13, 0-679-76944-7, right and wrong, is outraged when the wife of the
February.) A novel of girls and their mothers and breast Chief Justice of the Supreme Court commits suicide
cancer and life. after years of spousal abuse — and the “good old
Volume 20 Number 5/6 137 Winter 1998
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
boys” in Congress refuse to impeach the offender. most recent edition of What to Expect When You're
What starts as a joke — her call upon the women of Expecting. The Spanish-language edition of this basic
America to boycott sex until the Chief Justice is held book on pregnancy is for the mother-to-be who
accountable for his crimes — becomes the rage of the needs information in Spanish, for the non-Spanish
nation, and Lauren finds herself a reluctant celebrity speaking doctor who is having trouble communicat-
at the center of the controversial movement. $23 cl, ing with a Spanish-speaking patient, and for the
0-684-84671-3. ex0pec-tan7t 6par1ent1s i-n 0a s9tre4ssfu9l -tim8e. .$ 13. 95— pb,LM
Based on a decade of original research with 60
dysfunctional couples, When Men Batter Women:
New Insights into Ending Abusive Relationships by
Neil S. Jacobson, Ph.D. and John Gottman, Ph.D. Zil:
provides a look at the psychology of men who batter l
women. The authors categorize batterers into two WILLIAM MORROW & CO.
specific types: those whose violence can sometimes be Embracing Victory: Coming into Our Own as
tamed by the right therapy, and those who see Competitors by Mariah Burton Nelson (The Stronger
violence as a normal part of life and will probably Women Get, the More Men Love Football) is an examina-
always be dangerous. Profiling each type of batterer tion of the ambivalence many women feel about
in detail, the authors address the dynamics of the winning, as well as a prescription for dealing with this
batterers’ relationships, discuss treatment options, issue. Drawing from interviews of two hundred
and draw on their study to describe the characteristics women as well as original survey research of one
of women who escaped abusive relationships. $25 cl, thousand women and girls nationwide, Nelson
0-684-81447-1. proposes a unique five-part framework for under-
Judith Widdicombe was a registered nurse who standing competition: it’s a relationship, a process, an
helped women get abortions while the procedure opportunity, a risk, and a feminist issue. $23 cl, 0-688-
was still illegal, and then went on to set up the first 14649-X.
legal abortion clinic in Missouri. Samuel Lee was a “My birth should have been an auspicious occa-
young pacifist and aspiring Franciscan seminarian sion for my parents because I was their first child. But
who became very involved in the right-to-life move- I was born a girl, and in the Philippines that made all
ment. Focusing on these two people who were the difference,” writes Maria Violetta Rossario
leaders from opposing camps in the conflict that Dananay, the narrator of Always Hiding by Sophia G.
ended up in the U.S. Supreme Court as Webster v. Romero. When Maria’s father leaves his family for his
Reproductive Health Services, Articles of Faith by latest flame, her mother, unable to face the disgrace,
Cynthia Gorney presents a political and social narra- flees to New York. This first novel set in both the
tive of one of the most significant challenges to Roe Philippines and New York offers a new and fascinat-
v. Wade. ($27.50 cl, 0-684-80904-4.) Because They ing 'view"of modern Filipino life! $22.50"cl,
Wanted To, Mary Gaitskill’s latest collection of 0-688-15632-0.
stories, has just been published in paperback under With emphasis on preventive care, Being Female:
the Scribner imprint. ($11 pb, 0-684-84144-4.) Scrib- What Every Woman Should Know about Gynecolog-
ner is also reissuing Gaitskill’s darkly erotic first ical Health by Rita Baron-Faust (with the physicians of
novel, Two Girls, Fat and Thin. “Gaitskill writes the NYU Medical Center Women’s Health Service) is a
with compelling power, evoking over and over the resource for women of all ages which addresses com-
feeling of both the perpetrator and the victim.” mon concerns, including fibroids; urinary tract
—Jane Smiley. ($11 pb, 0-684-84312-9.) —LM infections; breast, ovarian, cervical, and uterine cancers;
WORKMAN endometriosis; infertility; and sexual dysfunction. It
also offers clear explanations of new tests and treat-
Qué Se Puede Esperar Cuando Se Está Esperando ments, including hormone replacement therapy,
b Hy hA ar wl ae yn ,e BE .i Ss .e Nn .b e ir sg , H ce oi mdi leE t. M tu rr ank so lf af t, na n d S a tn hd eee E. fe0rti-lit6y 8pr8oce-du1res2, a0nd7 gy1ne-co7log.ic al s—urgerLiesM. $25 cl,O
a t a p e i o o f
Winter 1998 138
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Index of Advertisers
AGMBOOKS 545 -eies ve n e sais eea 104 Nalad Press.. opu i e 14
Bookpeople/ Werds.. .. A. AN C2 Overlook Press... 0. 48
Broadway Bo0ks..%. v.. . A e 4 Press Gang 4. A3. A. hii s. 17
Circles: Magazinessa 65 Random:House/PRantheon.... Á S.. 20
Earth Beat Records .... s rsi 13 Random Ħouse/ Villard... ............: 126
Firebrand Books... e.bet C1 Red Crane BOOKS —. -oraso 43
Forge/ TOR... d0 s ie 92 ROUNAET. siri att. 22
Freedom From Religion Foundation ....... 44 ROUIedge k sa t e n 18
CITI PISSS a uni ae ei d ia 40 Rutgers University Press ... 7...0.. 118
Goldenrod Distribution ,................. 84 SMUG Taylor. 505559 108
Granville-Moore Publications: ..........…. 106 SPINIfeN PIOSS, -i -essare gearan 50
HarperSanFrancisco»s.. 7.4 6 o6. 28,58 TEEN VOIESS s i 102
Kane/Miller Book Publishers ............. 86 Third Woman Press, e 31
Koen BOOR DISIributors.......... 0... C3 U.S. Games Systems, Inc. =... 0...0... 26
Ladyslipper, Ine... .. 0... 85 University of Chicago Press... ......... 116
MIT PreS8 >» s irer s 10 University of Illinois Press... ......... 25
independent booksellers in finding, using and
Classified Ads, continued from page 140. claiming co-operative advertising support from
work and discuss an upcoming projest. Pat Koren and publishers. BookGrrls, Dorothy Holland, Box 830,
Laurie Smith, Kajun Design: 415-863-2494. Placitas NM 87043-0830; 505-867-9077, fax 505-867-
1455, email (dorothy@bookgrrls.com).
Free Booksearch. Send us your out-of-print book
needs. We will search for you. You can send them via Publicist/Marketing Consultant specializing in femi-
email at (rtkemp@aol.com) or by mail: Kemp Krafts, nist and/or lesbian book promotions. Experienced
288 Flynn Avenue, Burlington VT 05401-5374. and knowledgeable in many aspects of book retailing,
publishing, and distribution. Creative and flexible
Check Yourself! Excellent freelance copyediting/ services. Reasonable rates. Committed to the
proofreading services provided by FBN’s office women’s movement as well as to business concerns.
manager. Prices start at $12/hour for proofing, Mev Miller, 1483 Laurel Avenue, St. Paul MN 55401;
$18/hour for copyediting, depending on task. Sub- 612-646-0097, email (mev@winternet.com).
missions received via email, fax, or delivery. Contact
Danielle Bauter at FBN: 415-642-9993 or in the evening FBN Classified Ads — $10 for first 50 words, 15 cents
at 415-334-4431 email (Danielle@FemBkNews.com). for each additional word. 25% discount for 3 or more
insertions paid at one time. Payment must accom-
Dorothy Holland runs BookGrrls, devoted to pany ad. No charge for “Help Wanted” listings up to
keeping small independent bookstores in business. She 100 words. Send to: FBN, PO Box 882554, San
also publishes The Co-Op Report, an annual Francisco CA 94188; fax 415-642-9995, or email
ppublication with quarterly updates to assist (Jenn@FemBkNews.com).
Volume 20 Number 5/6 139 Winter 1998
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
HELP WANTED order direct, call 1-800-862-5814, or write for a catalog
sheet: Kemp Krafts, 288 Flynn Avenue, Burlington VT
Book Buyer. Lesbian/ feminist bookstore in Colorado 05401-5374.
seeks creative and motivated bookseller to maintain
computerized inventory. Duties include: buying of FOR SALE
entire store inventory, working with publishers, proc-
essing returns, maintaining daily store operations, Want to purchase single or bulk copies, hardcover or
and providing customer service. Computer skills and paperback, of You Can't Kill the Spirit by Pam McAl-
a friendly demeanor a must. Will train. Fax cover letter lister, New Society Publishers/USA, 1988? Contact:
and resume to: 303-399-6167. IFOR Women’s Program, Spoorstraat 38, NL-1815 BK
Alkmaar, Netherlands. Fax +31-72-5151-102, email:
Rising Tide Press and Womankind Books haved (s.anderson@ifor.ccmail.compuserve.com).
moved to Tuscon and are seeking women with book- MAGAZINES
selling and publishing experience for staff. Also ac-
cepting resumes from experienced freelance editors Goddessing Regenerated, international multi-cultural
and graphic art designers. For more information, con- 36-page feminist newspaper: Oh, Black Madonnas,
tact Lee Boojamra or Alice Frier at 520-888-1140. Yes, Double Goddesses! Some Vulva Goddesses, Tree
COMIX Goddesses, and Bird Goddesses, too. Sing me of
Crones, Gorgons, Bread Goddesses, Fat Goddesses,
Sun Goddesses, and Menstrual Muse! Prehistoric
Feminist science fiction quarterly in comic form —
Invasion of the Space Amazons from the Purple- cultures, environmental issues, sacred sites, plus
Planet! Latest issue now available from GrizMart snazzy pictures, too! $4 retail/$2.40 wholesale.
Productions, PO Box 442612, Lawrence KS 66044. Inquiries: Willow LaMonte, Goddessing, Box 269,
Single copy: $2.50 postpaid; 40% bookstore discount Valrico FL 33595 or PO Box 73, Sliema, Malta, email
on 5+ copies (5 copies, $6.75 postpaid). Send your (goddssng@maltanet.net).
store's business card for a free sample kit! SERVICES
SIDELINES
Book and Catalog Design. For more than 15 years we
Gay Chocolate Bar. Linda Grishman produces two- have been designing and producing award-winning
ounce premium diamond-shaped chocolate bars that books, catalogs (including the Feminist Bookstores’
come in six flavors: milk, milk with almonds, milk Catalog), and other publications. We are located in
with hazelnut praline, dark, dark with roasted San Francisco, but have worked successfully with
almonds, and dark mint chip. Each individaully writers, publishers, and printers in all parts of the
wrapped in foil. A wooden display rack is available country. Call if you would like to see samples of our
for $7.50, or order 144 and the rack is free. You can See Classified Ads, previous page.
Winter 1998 140
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsBookpeople.
The Bookpeople Sales Depar
Tke Neel cau n
woul like to w e Inlc kome Lesbian Task Force
to our selection of Paadon Publications
Spinsters Ink-
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThis content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 00:45:42 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms