Newslilv ilh
{
IN THIS ISSUE |
Letters 3
Announcements 8
Defend Gay's the Word 10
They Went That-A- Way 14
Lavendar Menace Hit by Customs 15
Village Voice Ad Supplement 18
New Science Fiction 20
From Our Own Presses 26
Calendars 37
From the University Presses 39
On Publishers Row 39
From the Small Presses 40
i AM r3 324 78
Volume 7 Number 4
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:36:30 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsTAHE FEMINIST BOOKSTORE NEV Sis invited to write their own (short!) blurbs for listings.
published six times a year, in January, March, May, July, FBN believes that you know more clearly than we do why you
September, and November. Deadline for articles, copy, choose to publish a particular book. Books published by the
letters, ads, etc., is the fifteenth of the preceding month feminist press are listed in FBN only when FBN hears about
unless other arrangements are made, Signed articles are the them, so DO remember to send announcements. Pre-publication
responsibility of the authors; no editing is done on such announcements facilitate early orders. All publishers
work. FBN is compiled and published by Carol Seajay. should include bookstore terms. Please also include distri-
butors who (will) carry the title for the benefit of small
SUBSCRIPTIO NS are $35.00 per year. Make checks stores that order primarily from distributors. If you
payable to FEMINIST BOOKSTORE NEWS. Send subscriptions, prefer that bookstores order directly from you, please
worrespondence, news, letters, ads and articles to FBN, P.O. include that information as well.
Box 882554, San Francisco, California 94108. FBN may be F B N welcomes letters, articles, announcements and trivia
reached by telephone during regular office hours (Pacific from publishers as well as bookstores. We are the left and
standard Time) at (415) 431-2093. right hands of the same goal.
THE FEMINIST BOOKSTORE NE WS:isa ADVERTISING RA T ES are $200 per full page,
communications vehicle for the informal network of feminist $125 per half page. Agency discounts and multiple
bookstores. It reaches 110 stores in the U.S. and Canada, insertions rates available on request. Mailing list also
available for rental. Please inquire. Camera ready copy or
ments, and feminist bookstores in Great Britain, Europe, layout and paste-up services available at a nominal fee.
Australia, and New Zealand. Contact FBN at P.O. Box 882554, San Francisco, California
94108 or (415) 431-2043 during regular office hours, Pacific
ANNOUNCEMENTS AND BOOKS FOR Standard Time.
R E V I E W may be sent to FBN at P.O. Box 882554, San c 1984 FEMINIST BOOKSTORE NEWS.
Francisco, California 94108. Feminist publishers are ISSN No. 0741-655
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:36:30 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsNOTES FROM
THE
S 9 o
o
: O
00000 o
yill vou take a look at this issue! Pre-printing it's articles on bookstores closing and opening, on new
hard to tell which will be more striking. all the new advertising strategies, and two ħhookstores looking for new
graphics the columns, the new-pseudo type setting look or owners.
the attention to detail in the layout and graphic selection I'm also working on an article (would you believe a
and arrangement. All of this is thanks to Mary Collins who series of articles?) on bookstores and computerized
has been working on paste-up for Coming Up and was looking inventory systems. [l'Il be reviewing Jean Fishbeck's
for a .project" to work on while she builds up her graphic Booklog program, and the more expensive Ibid program, for
arts business. The "project" includes creating re useable sure, and anything else that bookstores want to hear about.
layout boards, column headers for regular columns, letter- If you've been thinking of going computer, please give me a
head stationery for FBN (seems like a a good idea after call and fill me in on what you've been learning and what
eight years of notes on legal! pads), business cards, and a you want to hear about. Some bookstores (Charis &
new rate card for advertising Not to mention paste up and Womanbooks, for sure, others?) have been using computers for
layout for the issue! Likely we'll go all the way*and inventory control for a while, and I want to include those
design a whole packet for soliciting advertising as well. I experiences. Accounting systems are the next big topic, so
feel like a little kid at Christmas getting everything şhe please give me a call of you've been using or thinking about
always hoped for. If youre in the bay area and need some them. 4 1I5-'4m31- 20 9h3.ome more in the afternoons than
graphic work done, give Mary a call at 282 7558. She's at mornings, but the machine is always here if I'm not and l'Il
3388 22 Street at Valencia. Thanks, too to Karen Brungardt call you back.
for her assistance and perseverance in bringing all this to The new magazine/newsletter The Feminist Publishers
fruition. News is now out and about. Fifty-six pages of news and
notes and it's a wonderful treat and will definitely be an
asset to the "industry". Bookstores are welcome to sub-
Zili scribe, along with book and periodical publishers. Subs are
$15.00/year for 5 issues. I'm delighted to see it coming
This issue takes a long look at the British Customs out, though I'm a little concerned about the choice of the
harassment of British bookstores Gay's the Word and Lavender Feminist Publishers' News is awfully close to
Menace, the the seizures of lesbian and gay books published And FPN looks an awful lot like
in the USA. All this started happening last spring. Similar
Getting up-to-date information has been difficult so these
articles may be a bit behind what is actually happening
there but it seems important to get some in-depth
information out to booksellers here. Next issue will have
an up-date on the situation, and hopefully a strategy for
people on this side of the ocean to influence the situation
there with letters to whom-ever, etc. There are also
Volume 7 Number 4 November
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:36:30 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
ocoO0o00
magazines, than I don't think it helps us to set them up to vibrations." O.K. I admit I have a warped sense of humor.
be confused with each other. How about a name like The Next topic!
Magazine for Feminist Publishers (MFP)? That's equally clear Do I dare make a crack about the current slew of CBC
and direct and would avoid confusion. For subscriptions ads with the come-hither men and the elegantly gowned woman
write to Frog in the Well, 430 Oakdale Road, East Palo Alto, peering provocatively over her shoulder at the reader?
CA 94303. And/or you might drop them a note encouraging (Photo taken from a book called Exquisite Creatures, a
another choice of name. special selection of the book club.) All these years of
Speaking of the Century Book Club article; for everyone fighting the objectification of women and the use of sexual
who was confused, my crack about lawyers making it big imagery to sell automobiles, and "our own" bookclubs put out
financially by writing book club clauses into writers’ ads that could be the lead images in a slide show about
contracts was neant as a joke. (You know, a Joke, Ha lla, sexual objectification ín advertising??!! Or maybe it was
humor and all that?) I! really don't see that the lesbian meant as a joke? Don't those feminists have a sense of
t hw ar ti 'st i n gg o i nc gom tm o u n mit ay k e ( e av e bn i g c o il mle pc at civ te l oy n) h thas e t lh ege a lk i pn rd o f o esf s i om noney humor ab Gou ot o dan y t nh ein wg!? s: FBN's be i( nTh ge a rns ew ve ir e wto e t dh a t i non e l iis b r"N ao r." y) journal!
one way or the other. Several publishers hastened to inform And I've come to the end of my rope with my 35 lour a week
me that every contract they had ever seen (!) had a bookclub "part-time" job driving a Federal Express truck and am
'clause in it. I've seen a few that didn't, myself, but my quitting after the end of the holidays. After a 15 months
point was and still is that when signing contracts, the book behind the wheel, I've returned to the world of the
club clause hadn't been an item of much significance for financially solvent, had a lot of time to think about
most lesbian writers. Certainly not in the contracts where things, and have come to the startling conclusion that l
I've been a consultant. Movie rights haven't been a big can't drive a truck 35 hours a week, work on a magazine 15
issue, either, though that will change, too, with the advent hours a week, and write great literature in the time left
of gay and lesbian commercial movie producers. Change. Oh, over. Somehow, there doesn't seem to be any time left over!
yeah, that. It was supposed to be a part-time job, but part-time jobs
Jokes: Let me tell you my current favorite: have this way of expanding to fill the employer's (not
Q. Why did the chicken cross the road? necessarily the employee's) needs, and there it is. My
A. You mean there was a choice? plans are to pursue a lot more advertising for FBN, to get-
(I also like "Why do Californians like earthquakes?" rich-quick writing lesbian novels (I'll be satisfied with a
"California wouldn't be California if we couldn't all share couple of those not-yet-existing movie contracts), and maybe
do a little computer consulting on the side.
Speaking of writing, FBN REALLY needs women to do
monthly columns on new books from mainstream publisħers,
paperbacks, cloth, and mass markets. If FBN doesn't start
getting some offers pretty quick, l'Il start calling you up
and harassing you!
Till next time,
Yours in spreading the words,
Garol Seajay
Courtesy of Booklegger Archives
November 1984 Volume 7 Number 4
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:36:30 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
Firebrand Books
141 The Commons
Ithaca, NY 14850
(607) 272-0000
November 8, 1984
Dear Carol and Feminist Bookstore News Readers:
I am writing to let you know both the bad and the good
news. The bad news is that I am no longer editing the
Feminist Series at Crossing Press. The good news is that I
am starting my own publishing company, Firebrand Books, in
order to continue and build upon the work I have already
done.
Sudie Rakusin/Goddesses and Amazons
EEE Essays in Feminist Education, edited
Firebrand Movement, A Novel by Valerie Miner
Movement in Black, Poetry by Pat Parker
Books Natural Birth, Poetry by Toi Derricotte
Nice Jewish Girls: A Lesbian Anthology, edited by
Evelyn Torton Beck
For more than four years at Crossing I was responsible The Notebooks of Leni Clare and Other Short Stories by
for Developing a Feminist Series that spoke to many of our Sandy Boucher :
diverse strengths. I feel fortunate that recent events have The Politics of Reality: Essays in Feminist Theory by
given me an additional opportunity to act upon my commitment Marilyn Frye
to feminist and lesbian publishing. The Queen of Wands, Poetry by Judy Grahn
When I came to Crossing in 1980, Alta's The Shameless Sister Outsider, Essays and Speeches by Audre Lorde
Hussy and Jan Clausen's Mother, Sister, Daughter, Lover had Triangles, A Novel by Ruth Geller
just arrived from the’ printer. When I left in mid-October, True to Life Adventure Stories, Volumes One and Two,
3 November 1984
Volume 7 Number 4
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:36:30 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
edited by Judy Grahn Lammas l3ookstore
The Work of a Common Woman, Poetry by Judy Grahn 321 Seventh St., SE
Zami: A New Spelling of My Name, Biomythography by Washington, DC 20003
Audre Lorde October 25, 1984
In this tradition, Firebrand will publish its first
three books in April 1985 They are Dear FBN,
Mohawk Trail, by Beth Brant, is an outstanding Attached is a forthcoming f/sf "column" -- is there
collection of lively. incisive, innovative prose by this anybody out there who'd like to do something similar for
excellent Indian writer, member of the Turtle Clan editor mysteries, especially the paperback variety??
of A Gathering of Spirit. Both side splittingly funny and Since the last FBN, Lammas has staged her first big-
deadly serious, with a marvelous eye for the detail that time book party ("big-time" means that we got reimbursed for
makes people come alive on the page, this book explores the refreshments!"). The guest of honor was Doris Grumbach (The
‘author's several families, the places she comes from and is Ladies), who is not only based in D.C. but co-owns a fine
part of -- families connected by blood, by gayness, and by rare/used-book store three blocks from Lammas. As a result,
working class lives we found ourselves working with our old friends E. P.
Jonestown and Other Madness, Poetry by Pat Parker, is Dutton. That part wasn't bad once we learned (a) that sales
the second book of poetry by this fine West Coast Black reps don't return phone calls, (b) that only receptionists
lesbian poet and activist. Her first book, Movement In are ever in the office, and (c) that no one is in the office
Black, was reissued as part of the Feminist Series. My after noon on Fridays. We had the usual terrors-- we'll
commitment to publishing work by women of color is strong never sell that many hardcovers, our space is too small, we
because their visions have expanded my possibilities. My don't know how to act around straight literati, etc. But it
commitment to publishing poetry is strong because poets are went very well.
saying what we need to hear. This is one bookseller's musings upon reading Barbara
Moll Cutpurse, A Novel by Ellen Galford, is the North Grier's comments on distribution: I try to buy direct from
American edition of a delightful Patience-and-Sarah-type feminist and pro-feminist publishers unless we need some-
lesbian romp set in Elizabethan England, It is a good read thing immediately. However, there are a few publishers
and well done, published in Scotland last year. I came upon (whose names I won't mention) that I rarely if ever order
it when I was in London at the First International Feminist from, for the following reasons:
Book Fair and think that an American/Canadian audience will 1. Lousy service. Order it now and we're lucky
be equally entertained by Moll's adventures and feisty to have ít within a month. And that's when I specify
spirit. UPS -- paying UPS freight costs when the publisher
As you must realize, this had been a difficult, doesn't ship the order until four weeks after she
challenging, and exiting time for me. I look forward to receives it is galling in the extreme! If I order from
many years of feminist and lesbian publishing and welcome Inland, I have it in two days.
vour feedback, suggestions, and support. [HINH
Wamnly,
Nancy K. Bereano
Editor and Publisher
1984
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:36:30 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
2. Continual fuckups with hilling and/or fulfill- Pandora Book Peddlers
ment. Wrong titles, wrong quantities, title Absent 68 W. Palisade Ave.
Without Explanation. No packing skip. No invoice, Englewood, N. J. 07631
either with the order or in the mail. Not just once October 26, 1984
but over and over and over.
3. Freight costs. | rarely order direct from West Dear FBN,
Coast publishers because UPS is so expensive and book- Congratulations and thank vou for a chock-full issue in
rate is so slow and/or unreliable. I'm trying to order September. The timeliness vis-a-vis CBC was very much
at least new titles direct -- this works best when appreciated in Englewood, NJ. My business partner Pam
we're buying in fairly large quantities (10s and 20s (Sheldrick) and I were particularly concerned about the club
rather than 2s and 5s, that íis). Publishers obviously because when we opened (we just celebrated our first birth-
can't do much about this (other than making drastic day at Pandora Book Peddlers) our goal was to build mail
changes in who pays for shipping), and I hope it some- order into 75% of our business. After the initial shock on
how works out, with East Coast stores ordering from hearing of the CBC venture, we decided to see its advent as
East Coast publishers, etc. a catalyst for turning the two of us into better merchan-
Naturally, there are other things to worry about. We do a disers. We look forward to the challenge and we know other
booming business with Naiad, for instance, and order direct feminist bookstores will as well.
except for the title that ran out the day after we placed By now you may have seen our full page ad in MS.
the last order. Naiad is one of the fastest, more accurate Magazine's November issue (most of which was paid with co-op
shippers in the business. However, the fact that Naiad only ad money). We identify ourselves as a women-owned business.
ships by the euphemistically so-called postal "service" If we had the CBC budget we would have gone for a double-
causes some problems on this end. The local post office
(about three doors from the store) will only deliver one or
two medium-sized parcels a day. Which means that our multi-
box Naiad orders trickle in over several days. Along with
death and taxes, one of life's little certainties is that
Curious Wine will come in the very last box, along with the
packing slip and whatever else we ran out of two weeks ago.
All of which is by way of saying that we try to support
feminist & co. presses, even when circumstances make it
difficult, but sometimes ordering direct is just asking for
trouble. I'd love to hear how other folks are dealing with
this.
Fastidiously keeping track of postage, I remain
Yours,
Susanna |. Sturgis
Amy Nikaitani/Gathering Ground
Number 4
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:36:30 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
spread center fold. We find it ironic, as straight women in records. Your newsletter is anxiously awaited each time.
a heavily lesbian industry (often left out and frowned upon
for OUR life-style CHOICE), that we are witnessing in the Stephanie Browner
CBC situation a microcosm of the straight world where the (manager for 1 year now)
boys again have the money to call the shots. Dreams and Swords
We do want to thank Donna at Naiad for stopping by at 328 E. 64th St.
NWSA and giving us the whole story after we heard so many Indianapolis, IN 46220
different versions as we were leaving the ABA in May. Dreams & Swords is growing nicely. l'm about to buy a
Thanks to Barbara for shipping to bookstores the same time
computer to help with my inventory which has become too
she ship s K t uo d C oB sC ,. Carol, for a job well done. The longer we're in large fo r A f m tee r t 2o keep t r 1ac /k 2 of y i en a rm sy h inead . business, the store is really
b fu orsi wn ae rss d, tt oh e a nm o er xe c i ti im ngp o r set can ont d F B yN ea r b e fc io llm ede s . w W ithe gar re o w l to ho ,king beginning to feel viable. I have started taking a small
learning and, of course, a burgeoning mailing list. salary and am looking forward to next year when I hope to be
In sisterhood. able to expand.
Vivian Scheinmann VWamly,
P.S. Why haven't stories about the CBC, which have appeared larriet
in such periodicals as OOB, included the fact that gay men P.S. I love FN -- it's both fun and helpful.
are backing the venture?
Crazy Ladies Bookstore
4112 Hamilton Ave. Daedalus Books
Cincinnatti, OH 45223 2260 25th Place, NE
Crazy Ladies is doing well! \We discovered some serious Washington, DC 20018
errors in tax reporting for 1983 this past March and the Hello Carol,
IRS, state and city tax collectors were hot on our tails. You might mention somewhere in the next newsletter that
But... we talked, explained, stalled, muttered about "Who it looks like newcomers to ABA will have almost an
was responsible for this mess?"; and finally we got a loan impossible chance of getting a booth. The letter I got from
at very low interest from an order of nuns who like to help ABA concerning S.F. was that NO new companies would get
women's businesses! We are confident that with our fundrai- booths at ABA due to space problems and that they were
sing efforts which have been VERY successful and our im- requesting people who had exhibited in the past to reduce
proved sales due to careful managment, improved store their booth space. I think this is all prbably true because
appearance, a newsletter, etc, we will pay back the loan and I just got the lay-out of the Moscone Center and it looks
be stable and in the clear. The information Il learned at like the size of the bathrooms in past ABAs. I don't know
the Midwest-Women-In-Print Conference was indispensalbe for why they chose such a small place since the convention just
improving the store's appearance and the store's financial gets bigger and bigger every year and the ones in California
1984 Volume 7
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:36:30 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
are always very large and popular. I'm thinking that they Alaska Wnen's Bookstore
probably chose it five years ago (since I think that's about Ugly L'il Building
how far they plan ahead) and didn't ralize what the growth 513 West 7th
would be. I think that people should double up in booths Ancorage, AK 99501
and p!u t t:h e :m o n8ey thDeye awrou ld Cspaenrd o inl b oaotth reFntealm to i mnaiksint, E Bookstore \ews,
a jazzy exhibit or put the money into good promotional
muerial to hand out. I wanted to update vour statistics on how many U.S.
bookstores attended the International Feminist Bookfair in
There's sort of a feeling of bheing out of it re the WIP London. I went. Partly for the benefit of the bookstore --
Conference here on the Fasy Coast (well, we aren't exactly to find fresh titles and authors and to make our offerings
out there to help). I would definately vote to keep the | more representative of the whole world. And another part of
conference in the city. I would think that a number of us my agenda was to re-charge my own spiritual batteries by
would not be able to attend if it was in the country. plugging into a crowd with feminist energy. Both goals Were
accomplished beyond my fondest fantasies. | had primed
lelaine myself by participating in the London for Feminists tour
which preceded the Bookfair.
Another ex-teacher (Karen Carlisle) and I had just
bought the bookstore short months before a Women's History
team came here to do a weekend workshop in March. Certainly
I leam a great deal about how other women are running their
bookstsores from reading vour periodical. Thanks for doing
all that work.
The old building where we have been operating has sold,
so we will be moving. We've formed partnership with the
Alaska Women's Resource Center and a few friendly private
investors in order to buy a Women's Building. We're
dickering for a small hotel which requires a down payment of
$135,000. We're working on the final $15,000 of that
amount. If we can truly pull it off, it will be beneficial
to both the bookstore and the resource center, as well as to
the women of Alaska whom we.seek to serve. And visiting
women. We get firsthand reports on many of the women's
Mary Angela Collins bookstores in the South 48 from women who come here on
vacation.
Sincerely,
lucille Frey
Volume 7 Number 4 7 November 1984
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:36:30 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
ANNOUNCEMEN IS
OHIA
WOMEN combine your or your lover's educational needs with the work
to be done since Tallahassee is the site of Florida State
The current version of the news is that the 1985 WIP University and Florida ASM University.
will be held on the University of California campus in All aspects of our business will be taught to you, and
Berkeley. Cost will be $200 for people staying there, and there will be periods of time each year when you will be
$100 for commuters. expected to handle all business activity while we are on the
road. This involves order filling, mail processing, some
rudimentary bookkeeping, typing, and telephone order taking
Most of all, it requires a genuine love of hard and meaning-
ful work, and the knowledge that all tasks have equal value
and all must be done.
Beginning salary is above local pay levels for
comparable work and full health and life insurance benefits
are provided by Naiad Press. There are no limits to your
Archives growth and personal freedan and success in this position.
Applications may be by phone or mail initially.
Contact The Naiad Press Inc., PO Box 10543, Tallahassee,
Florida 32302 904-539-9322
BOOKSTORE FOR SALE
Faubourg Marigny Books, Louisiana's only feminist
Courtesy of Booklegge" bookstore is for sale. Stock when I was there was pretty
evenly divided between gay men's literature and leshian &
HELP WANTED feminist literature. Says owner Tom llorner: "New Orleans is
The women of The Naiad Press, Inc., are again accepting the most beautiful city in the world, and the biggest party
applications for a permanent staff position, to be filled town (of course this legislates against people staying at
immediately! home and reading, as in some cities where there is noting
This is a professional p oansdi tisi o an c,a r eeTr h eelsre etfo o dro)e. it is an ideal place to live. We
opportunity Lifelong commitment to the Lesbian feminist have no heating bills here except minimal. We have no real
movement in general and Lesbian fem puibnlisihsintg iinn es tcatae s eta x you own property. But I do not own my
particular is the principal, unders rteoqoudir,e m renetn. t Y o uit s pfacoer. l$225 a month." The bookstore is
will be expected to move to Fľallahassee, Florida, to fill located on the edge of the Frech Quarter, and in the New
this position. It is possible, even desirable to extend Orleans gay ghetto", not far from several bars,
this role to two women instead of one, and two half time restaurants, etc. If you're interested, contact Tom Horner
positions could be considered. It is also possible to at Faubourg Marigny. 600 Frenchmen, New Orleans, LA 70116.
November 1984 Volume 7 Number 4
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:36:30 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
JA
21 began with the store's long-time friend and colleague,
JANE ADDAMS CLOSES Janine Veto, reading from from her novel fris. "Final
Festivities" had been initiated the week before, Friday,
June 21, 1984, was the closing day of the Jane Addams June 15, by Chicago Lesbian herstorian Marie Kuda's slide
Bookstore (Chicago). The store, together with her founders presentation, "They All Came to Paris: Lesbians in France,
and managers, Flora Faraci and Nancy Finke, and hundreds of 1880-1940." These events capped the continuous series of
friends, celebrated 7 1/2 years of feminism in downtown readings, workshops, and performances that have
Chicago at the last party on Thursday evening June 21. characterized the store's herstory.
Finke and Faraci opened the store together in December, During the last few weeks, the Jane Addams Bookstore
1976. They heartfully thank everyone who, over the years, was overwhelmed with calls and letters of appreciation.
bought books at Jane Addams, everyone who participated in Among them, the women of Helaine Victoria Press,
the store's events, and everyone who worked on special Martinsville, Indiana, telegraphed: "You have been an
projects. Thanks especially to Donna Moffett, their partner inspiration to the women's community. We will miss Jane
from 1979-1982, and to the "Jane Addams Irregulars"--the Addams..." Kit Duffy, Mayor Harold Washington's Liaison to
Chicago women who worked in and cared for the Jane Addams Chicago's Lesbians and Gays, wrote, "I would like to takë
Bookstore. this opportunity to express my admiration for the invaluable
Nancy Finke says, "The Jane Addams Bookstore is the role you have played in developing and promoting women's and
most thoroughly wonderful and thoroughly frustrating feminist literature, and for the unique focus you hav
endeavor with whiċh I have ever been involved. I am provided for all of us. The bookstore will be sorely
completely glad t whe a dtid wit. a Ist a great missed, but remembered with a great deal of pride and
accomplishment and loIv ed Nit.ow I'm ready to do affection."
something different." Nancy Finke's final words: "I urge and hope that all
women will continue and increase their support of women's
businesses- -enterprises that support and reflect the
realities and visions of women's lives."
= "We've happily paid 99% of our bills and intend to pay
all--a great way to close! Thanks for all your work over
the years m" --Nancy
new sto rF e,lora Fa r ta hc ei w Jail nl e c o An dt di an mue s i Bn o o t kh e S hb oo po k ( 2 0b 8u s i Nn oes rs t. h Neil, Her (Source: Press Release and letter dated Aug 10, 1984.)
Champaign, Illinois 61820, 217-356-2555) opened on August I|,
1984. The book shop is an antiquarian bookstore
specializing in women's studies, children's and illustrated
books, and detective fiction. It is a full-service
bookstore providing a free search service for out-of-print
books and special orders for new books.
Jane Addams Bookstore's archives and records will be
donated to the Chicago Historical Society.
The Jane Addams Bookstore's closing celebration on June
Number 4 Novembet
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:36:30 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
Gay's The Word is London's lesbian and gay community Excise arrived at the home of Glenn McKee, one of the
bookshop. The shop was set up in 1979 by a small group of bookshop's eight directors. They produced 'War it of
gay people to provide a central reference point for gay and Assistance', giving them general powers to enter and search,
feminist writing of all kinds. It exists as a specialist and went into the flat; they cautioned him, and proceeded to
bookseller, and has always been regarded by those involved interrogate him over the next six hours. Throughout this
as a gay community resource, period, Glenn was denied access to a solicitor or any
outside assistance. The questions centered on the business
procedures for importation, the officers having in their
OPERATION TIGER possession photocopies of some of the shop's written
In a very carefully planned and coordinated action, correspondence. They also thoroughly searched the flat,
code named "Operation Tiger", officers of Her Majesty's remfoviingn all d the, b ook shlopsi's s rectord s andt phaperse they could
Customs and Excise mounted a large-scale raid on Gay's The including the subscription for shop
Word bookshop in central London. The date was April 10, newsletter, and many of Glenn's personal possessions,
1984. tGhaey 'Ws oirs d currently the second-largest papers, books and video tapes.
lesbian and gay community bookshop in the world, and, as
such, stocks many works imported from countries throughout
the world, as well as much that is published in Britain.
The imported titles, particularly those from the USA, were They advised the Assistant Manager
the target of this raid. American books are ordered from to close the shop and told the
various US trade suppliers, and are sent to Britain in the customers 10 leave.
publisher's standard packing, carrying the appropriate
labels and Customs declarations.
HELD FOR SIX HOURS REMOVED
At nine-twenty am, two officers of HM Customs and At I p.m. a second team of officers entered the shop
itself. They 'advised' the Assistant Manager, Paud llegarty,
to close the shop, and told the customers inside to leave.
They then began the huge task of sorting the imported titles
from the British publications, over which they have no
jurisdiction. They seemed overawed by the sheer quantity of
books present, and had to confer by telephone with their
headquarters more than once. It took them 4 1/2 hours to
sift the books, and in the end they left with over 800
volumes -- a substantial portion of the total imports in
stock. They also searched the files and business records,
and removed many documents vital to the operation of the
Gay’ The Word shop, including invoices, accounting records, address lists,
and correspondence. Paud was also cautioned, and questioned
extensively by the officers in the shop; he too was denied
1984 Volume 7
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:36:30 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
the right to contact a solicitor.
PROPERTY TAKEN
Russell, the shop's Manager, arrived. She was taken off to
HM Custorns and Excise office in nearby Woburn Place, where
she was held, cautioned, and closely questioned. That
evening her flat was searched, and some of her personal
books and video tapes were removed. She does not keep any
shop papers at home.
Late in the afternoon, the home of one other director,
Jonathan Cutbill, was raided. By then the raiding party financial implications of this aspect alone are very
seemed rather tired, and became somewhat half-hearted when serious.
faced with Jonathan's house -- he is a serious book Since all imports appear to be being blocked, including
collector and owns many thousands of volumes. They did not later orders of titles previously released, it is now
remove any of his property. impractical to re-order any overseas books even when
existing copies are released for sale. This will reduce the
TITLES SEIZED total stock, and therefore turnover and income. ,
Before the Customs action, imported books and
Since the raid all of the stock as been returned except periodicals of direct interest of lesbians and gay men
22 titles against which a Seizure Notice was issued on June accounted for about 35% of Gay's The Word's turnover.
6, 1984.
CRIMINAL CHARGES?
FINANCIAL IMPACT
One of the officers involved in the raid claimed that
If the stock seized by HM Customs and Excise was HM Customs and Excise may try to bring criminal charges
eventually to be destroyed the suppliers would still have to against any or all of the people involved in running the
be paid. This could cause serious financial problems. Even shop. This could be very serious, and would certainly be
when the books are finally released, a long delay between the most devastating result for those in the shop, and
invoicing and delivery can cause 'cash flow' problems. others who work unpaid; regarding it as a trust for the gay
cannuni ty.
STOCK HELD
TAPPING PHONES
No imports have arrived at the shop since thè beginning
of the year, and it is now clear that HM Customs and Excise HM Customs and Excise would need the consent of the
have refused clearance for all imports destined for Gay's Home Secretary in order to tap telephones. It is not known
The Word, although no official notification has been if they did tap telephones in this case. But they are free
received. It is now estimated that they are withholding to open any mail coming into the country, as it is treated
another L9000 worth of the shop's stock. Clearly, the as 'imports'. It is not clear how they would have had
Number 4 11 November
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:36:30 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
Z from the Gay's The Word
information packet.
lesbians to the printed material vital to the sharing of our
culture, whether it is informative, romantic, sensual, of
just enjoyable. The Customs law arbitrarily limits the
exchange of ideas across frontiers. The actions against the
bookshops are very central attacks on the self-determination
and self-respect of the gay and lesbian community.
access to out-going mail as they appear to have done. All of these, and similar incidents combine to create
an atmosphere which many would argue is used with conscious
EXPANSION POSTPONED intent; is t,h a traids and arrests are used not only to -`
proscribe those who are their immediate objects but also to
Plans to expand every aspect of the bookshop service, deliver a message to the gay community, to make us aware
by moving to a larger (and more expensive) premises, that we cannot act with the same sense of freedom and
originally scheduled for 19 8h4,ave now had to be security which other members of society expect as a right.
indefinitely postponed as a direct result of the actions of
HM Customs and Excise. THE CUSTOMS ACTION:
A LESBIAN RESPONSE
RAIDS ON BOOKSHOPS
On April 10, 1984 officers from HM Customs and Excise
The action by HM Customs and Excise against Gay's The raided Gay's The Word book shop and detained some 800 books
Word bookshop exposes Custom's powers as a blunt instrument imported from the USA; of those over half were titles
which can readily be used to seriously harass and threaten specifically by and/or for lesbians.
the gay and Lesbian community. In Edinburgh HM Customs and It is almost a clichè now that many lesbians made their
Excise detained stock destined for Lavender Menace, another first discover of their sexuality through reading a novel;
gay and lesbian bookshop. Police also used their separate although nowadays the novel is more likely to have been
powers under the Obscene Publications Act to seize a Rubyfruit Jungle than The Well of Loneliness! Both the
cm asa eg sa z i tn he e, pal ot wh eo ru sg h a r t eh i ts o w aa ns is mub ps oe rq tu ae nn tt ly ex tr ee nt tu r an re bd i. trary, In both f ai nc dt io tn h e w h ni oc nh - f ia cm tiu os ne s , w hen ict he r t inai fn os r man s d o usu r p p po or lit ts i c so u or r l e rs eb ci la an imism s
depending on individual officer' prejudices, and those at our history are an integral part of many of our lives.
the receiving end are put to great difficulty and expense in In London, we are particularly lucky in having
establishing their rights. Though part of Gay's The Word's Sisterwrite, the bookshop at A Woman's Place, and Silver
stock has been return, the law has been used to weaken the Moon, all places specializing in lesbian/feminist material.
financial basis of two important lesbian and gay Despite its gender-specific name, coined before the
organizations. Lavender Menace could not afford to contest exclusively male use of the word 'gay' had become
the detention, and thus lost twenty-six imported titles. commonplace, Gay's the Word has provided about a third of
More recently, HM Customs and Excise have detained nearly its space for lesbian and/or feminist material, and this has
200 books ordered by London's Essentially Gay mail order been increased particularly in the years that Amanda Russell
service which, with limited finances cannot now remain in worked there.
business. Many lesbian groups have also started out meeting in
The outcome is to limit the access of gay men and se shop,land. thel Wednesttay: night, discussion, group. has. been
November 1984 12 Volume 7 Number 4
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:36:30 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
running for three years highly successfully. (In fact, the AIMS OF THE CAMPAIGN
numbers of lesbians whose confidence has been increased to
the point where they feel able to come out at the group must
now be in three figures!) 1. The retum of Gay's The Word's books and records and the
So what is the relevance of this raid to us as personal possessions of its directors and staff; the release
of any material detained at point of entry; no further
lesbians, feminist, women generally? If the state is, as it
seems, trying to widen the scope of the various laws which detention of imports to Gay's The Word or other importers.
deal with printed matter -- so that anything with the word
lesbian in it is 'indecent', how long before feminist 2. No charges brought as a result of the Customs action.
literature (which subverts the family!); peace material
(undermines national security!); or any generally left- 3. Compensation for lost revenues due to the action.
political works (attacks the status quo) becomes suitable
matter for attention? 4. To increase public awareness of the Customs action and
of HM Customs and Excise powers generally, and to mobilize
opposition to both, within the gay and lesbian community and
among the non-gay community.
It is almost a clichê that many les-
5. To put the action against Gay's The Word firmly in the
bians made their first discovery context of overall police and Government actions against the`
of their sexuality through civil liberties of lesbians and gay men.
reading a novel. 6. To lobby for the laws governing HM Customs and Excise to
be brought into line with accepted principles of civil
liberties and natural justice.
As feminists, we understand the dilemmas and arguments
surrounding the definition of pomography. We would reserve WHAT CAN YOU DO?
the right not to support the sale of material we felt was
offensive/degrading to women. Hopefully we also understand Write letters. (The information packet lists a number
the 'Right to Read' argument while not necessarily of people/organizations to write to. None of which are
supporting it wholeheartedly. Gay's The Word has never exactly appropriate for us on this side of the Atlantic. An
stocked a book which was considered to be any of the above update in the next FBN will provide that info at the time
and has had a policy of selling some books to women only. you're more likely to have a minute to write a letter!)
In the notoriously misogynist gay male community this has Contact Gay's The Word Bookshop, 66 Marchmont Street,
led to criticism in the past. Amanda often had to argue London WCI; tel 01-278-7654. Linda Semple and Paud Hegarty
hard for the decisions she made. In all fairness, she has and Defend Gay's The Word Campaign, 38 Mount Pleasant,
always been supported by her male co-workers and the London WCI.
majority of the mostly male Board of Directors. Despite Donations: Checks, postal orders, payable to Defend
their minor battles, Gay's the Word is an example of the Gay's The Word Campaign (or DGTWC)
strength and success of lesbians and gay men working Posters, leafle itnfso,r m aatviona i lpaacbk,le from
together. Gay's The Word Bookshop, 66 Marchmont St, London WCI.
Volume 7 Number 4 1984
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:36:30 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
Nancy Bereano, whom you may know as the editor of The So the news is that it is now at both the essential
Crossing Press Feminist Series has started her own feminist distributors. Tee is a feminist publisher that prefers to
publishing company, Firebrand Books! Hooray & Congratula- do all of her distribution via distributors.
tions! Firebrand's address is 141 The Commons, Ithaca, NY E
14850. Send cards, letters, orders (books listed elsewhere
herein) and donations of any small! fortunes you are
interested in investing in feminist publishing! I N L A N D now carries all of Zed Press's women's
NEW BOOKSTORES !A Woman's Place, 154 E. titles and a lot of the rest of their list, as well. (Which
Grand Ave., Escondido, Ca. 92025. They've been open about 8 I think I suggested to Zed when they were in the USA at the
months. And opening soon will be Sister Spirit in San Jose. ABA last year. It's always a pleasure to see one's bright
Until they get a storefront, write to Sister Spirit at PO ideas working!) They are selling very well and the only
Box 3045, San Jose, CA 95156. problem is keeping them in stock. (That ocean certainly
does get in the way!) Inland also has the Pulp Press titles
= n including The Promise, a collection of short stories by
Canadian writer Wanda Blynn Campbell, the Sara Steele Calen-
dar & the Emily Dickinson Book of Days and is the bookstore
CH'A NGING BOOKSTORES: Sister Spirit, distributor carrying Trivia (magazine). You can place
in Billings, Montana is now a mail order bookstore. The standing orders with either Trivia or Inland. Inland's
minimum is only 2 copies.
wearing everyone out! Their new address is PO Box 21244, HELLO? SARE YOU TIERE? Have gotten
Billings, 59104. mail returned from Rainbows of Life in Ft. Wayne, Indiana
MOVING BOOKSTORES: Page One Books is and the Uncommon Reader in Massachusetts. If you know of
now at 966 N. Lake Ave., Pasadena, CA 91104. Phone 818-798-
let us know?
“S
TEHE YLS SD0 ST EVERY TIME:
Bookpeople's letter saying they'd distribute Women Who Loved
Women arrived the day after Tee sent fliers to all the
bookstores on the FBN list saying to order it from Inland.
November 1984 14 Volume 7 Number
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:36:30 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsТһе Кетіпіѕё ВооКѕїоге Мем
ВЕЅТ ЅЕГГЕВ 5, ВООК5 ЅЕІГ ЕОР
АМУОМЕ? АТ СО5ЅТО М5
А ГСеѕМап Соппесіоп геадег аѕкед іп СС мһаі фе 10 ЕОТМвВ ОСИ -- Сизотѕ апд Ехсіѕе һауе деќаіпеі а
Гауогіке ІеѕЫіап поуеіз меге. Тмо ѕіогеѕ ѕепі геѕропѕеѕ ѕһіртепс оГ Ьоокѕ Ьоипі Гог І.ауепіег Мепасе Воокѕһор -- іп-
аё аге ргіпіей БеІом. сІидіпр соріеѕ об Ѕіпіѕзёег Міѕдот, опе оГ єһе оІдеѕі апд
Ьеѕ-Кпомп Іеѕһіјап таратіпеѕ іп ехіѕгепсе. Моѕ\ оГ һе
опеѕѕ Воокѕ, іп Ѕасгатепіо сотріІеі єкһеіг Нѕі гот окһег сікІеѕ деќаіпед меге аіѕо ІеѕЫіап.
ёќһеіг 1983 ѕаіІез. Ѕіпіѕёег УМіѕіот, ГогтегіІу едікед Бу Адгіеппе Вісһ апд
МісһеНе СПГ, һаѕ риЫіѕһед ѕисһ ІезЫјап апа Гетіпіѕс
І. СоІог РигріІе, Асе \УаіІкег. У/аѕһіпріоп Ѕаиаге Ргеѕз мгікегѕз аѕ Магре Ріегсу, Јоаппа изз, апі Магіоп 7іттег
. Сигіоиз Міпе, Каіһегіпе У. Ғоггеѕі. Маіад. Вгафіеу. Опе оГ ќһе ізѕиеѕ деѓаіпед, А Саёіһегіпр ої Ѕрігіг,
Ѕоиёќһегп Оіѕсотѓогі, Віка Мае Вгомт. Вапгап маѕ гіккеп апі едікед епіігеіу Бу Маііуе Атегісап УУотеп.
> ә ВееЫБо Вгіпкег, Апп Ваппоп. М№аіа. Апоѓһег сопѓаіпед а вгарһіс оѓ Сгеепнат Соттоп Ьу а ОК
. Ода Сігі Оиё, Апп Ваппоп. М№аіад. Гетіпіѕі агіізь.
І Ат А отап, Апп Ваппоп. №аіад. Тһе ѕһіртепіё аіѕо іпсішдед ‘кеп соріез ої Соттоп мез,
Б . Тіе: Јоштеу То А Уотал, Апп Ваппоп. №аіад. ГеѕЫіап Сіуез, а тарагіпе деуокед їо гие зѕіогіез Ьу
Ѕиддеп Оеа, Віка Мае Вгомп. Вапсат. огдіпагу ІезЬіапѕ; Тһе ГеѕЫіап Іпсісег; ГеѕЫап Сгоѕѕгоадѕ, .
. Тіе: Тһе Јоџигпеу, Алп Сатегоп. Ауоп. Ьу Вишсһ Ваег; Тһе Ғіегу Ғоишпѓаіпз, ап аисоЫіоргарһу Ьу
Мотап Іп Тһе Ѕһәдоулз, Апп Ваппоп. М№аіад. мгікег Маграгеё Апдегѕоп; апі ©умо вау теп'з Боокѕ, Тһе Виёсһ
9. Тіе: 7аті: А Мем ЅреШіп; ОҒ Му Мате, Аџшдге Гогде. Мапиа! (ргеуіоиѕіу геІеаѕед Ьу Сиѕёотѕ) апі Могієг!
Сгоѕѕіпд Ргеѕ5. Тһе ЫБооКѕ меге ітрошпдед оп 24 Ашвиѕі аё Ргеѕіміск
Веѓмееп Егіепдѕ, Сіһап НапѕсотЬе. АІуѕоп. Аігрогі, мһеге ќһеу һај 5ееп ѕепс ќо аггіуе іп ёте Гог ап
10. Тіе: Сотіпғг Ошё Ѕёогіеѕ, ед. Јиііа Ѕ$капіеу & Зиѕап ЕдіпЬигеһ Ғезёіуа| ҒЕгіпре геадіпг. Сиѕіотѕ дід пої іпадісаке
УУоІГе. Регѕерһопе. мһеп ёһеу тірһє десіде со геіеаѕе кһе БооКѕ, уаІпед аї 250
ВиБуѓгиіе Јипріе, Віка Мае Вгомп. Вапсат. роипдѕ, ог ѕеіте Кет.
А ОіҒГегепс Цірһе, а рау ЫБоокзёоге іп НоПумоод ѕепі єһе
ГоПоміп; зё Баѕед оп омпегз Ьеѕі ѕепѕе оѓ мһаг АГІ --Ргеѕѕ ВеІеаѕе гот Гауепдег Мепасе
ІеѕЫіап сиѕіотегз Биу топёһ аГкег топіһ, гакһег һап оп ЕдіпЬигеһ'з ГеѕЫіап & Сау Соттипіку ВооКѕіоге
питЬегѕ асёиау ѕоһФ. Тһе БооКѕ тагкед місһ * аге геаПу ПА Рогі Ѕігеег
роршІаг БооКѕ іп ёће Іаѕї 12 топіһѕ, мһісһ тау ѕІом домп ЕаіпЫБигећ ЕН1 ЗГЕ
еуепішаПу. Тһе ЫБооКѕ агеп'( іп апу рагіісшІаг огдег. ЅеркетЫег 7, 1984
“Тһе Ме ої ГопеШпеѕз, ВадсіГбе Най. Ауоп.
ВиБуѓгиіс ЈипрЛе, Віка Мае Вгомп. Вапсат.
Рацепсе апд Ѕагаһ, Іѕађее МіПег. Ғамсеіі.
*Сигіоиз Міпе, Каіһегіпе У. Ғоггеѕі. Маіад.
Сукһегеа'ѕ Вгеаёћ, Ѕагаһ АІагісһ. М№аіа.
Ғашікпе, ЅһеіІа ТауІог. №аіад.
*Тһе Мілпреі Оапсег, Сатагіп Огае. ВІагоп ВооКз.
ГеѕЫап Ғісііоп, ед. ЕПу Виікіп. Сау Ргеѕзеѕ ої МҮ.
Місе Јеміѕһ Сігіз, еі ЕуеІһуп Тогіоп Вес. Сгозѕіпр.
Г.аѕё Ѕиттег аё ВішеГіѕһ Соуе, Јапе СһатЬегѕ. Л! Рге$5.
Уоїһите 7 МитЬег 4 15 МоуетЬег 1984
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:36:30 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
There is a translation revolution going on in American magical im apnasds i osntoerdi e sb y the
publishing today. Dozens of authors from countries as contemporaries of Eliot and Sand, to the work of today's
diverse as Colombia, Japan and Czechoslovakia are being exciting young writers, An Everyday Story captures the
published and read with increasing interest and growing essence of many generations of women--mother, daughter,
acclaim. This revolution has, however, left out a grandmother, sister. Twenty-four authors translated by ten
significant proportion of the world's writers..
Waen
The censorship of women's writing has many forms and
occurs internationally as well as at home. While much of
women's lost literary heritage has been finding its way back
into print English speaking readers still know little of
what women from other countries are writing and publishing
today, much less what they wrote a hundred years ago.
The Seal Press has begun the Women in Translation
series to help change that. We recognize our need as women
and as readers to make high-quality fiction essays and
autobiography in other languages available in English. We
will be publishing two to four translations a year We've
begun with an anthology of Norwegian women s fiction. An
Everyday Story, and will continue with Early Spring, the
memoirs of Danish author Tove Ditlevsen. An exciting
collection of short stories by Norway s Cora Sandel will
follow in the fall of 1985.
We invite you to join us in this process of exploration
and discovery as we continue to publish excellent women's
writing fran around the world.
An Everyday Story: Norwegian Women s Fiction. Edited
by Katherine Hanson. Norway's tradition of storytelling
comes alive in this important anthology of women's fiction,
most of which has never before appeared in English. From Mary Angela Collins
November 1984 (op) Volume 7 Number 4
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:36:30 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
` introduction and biographical notes on each author. $8.95
paper. $16 95 cloth. Available now. bB yes t as nel dle r as bout
Early Spring, Tove Ditlevsen. Translated by Tiina
Nunnally. Tove Ditlevsen was one of Denmark's best loved
and most important women writers of the twentieth century.
As a poet short-story writer and novelist she brought the Dust Tracks L
voice of a young and sensitive working-class woman into on a Road
Danish literature for the first time. It is in her memoirs, An Autobiography
however, that Ditlevsen deals most surely and lyrically with F Co or ne tw aio nr sd pb ry ev iR ouo sb le yr t e xE p. u rH ge am tee dnway
what it meant to grow up in a crowed apartment in Copenhagen material. Cloth, $22.95; Paper, $8.95.
during the thirties a time of economic depression and Their Eyes Were
politic aul n rtwesot vTohleu m feisr s to f her Watching God
autobiography. Childhood and Youth, are here published Foreword by Sherley Anne Williams
together as Early Spring -- a portrait of the artist as a “ tT hh aner e t h i is s n oo n e .b ”o o -k A m lio cer e W im alkp eo rr .t a n Pt ap et ro , me
young girl. Tiina Nunnally is a free-lance translator and $4.95.
interpreter who has also published critical articles on
Danish women writers. She is currently at work on the third Moses, Man of
volume of the memoirs. $7.95 paperback, $14.95 cloth. the Mountain
Available Spring 1985. I “n At nro d au llc et gi oo rn y b ry e l eB vl ay nd te n t o J a tc hk es o n oppressive cir-
cumstances black people encounter in any
Cora Sandel:Selected Short Stories, Translated by age” — Robert E. Hemenway. Paper, $6.95.
Zora Neale Hurston
including Alberta Alone, a trilogy of novels about the A R o bL ei rte tr a Er .y H B ei mog er na wp ah yy
struggle to live and write as a woman, and Krane's Cafe Foreword by Alice Walker
(trans. Elizabeth Rokkan; University of Ohio Press, 1984). “In Hemenway’s rich and informative bio-
But she was also a master of the short story with echoes of g plr ea xp ih tyy ., —Hu r Mst eo ln W e am tker ing se ,s Nin e w a l l Y oh re kr Tc io mm e- s.
Jean Rhys and Katherine Mansfield in her depictions of Illustrated. Cloth, $19.95; Paper, $10.95.
women's lives. The stories in the collection are culled
from her five books and are considered among her best; they
deal, in a surprisingly contempor aryt whay, e wi th chtildhhoode, UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS PRESS
the tensions of marriage, life of an artist. 54E.Gregory Drive Champaign, IL 61820
loneliness and independence of the single woman. the fate of
refugees during WW II in neutral Sweden. Barbara Wilson is Seal press also received a grant for $12,000 from the
Norwegian Cultural Council to publish An Everyday Story.
She was awarded the Van de Bovencamp award by the Columbia (They do things like that in countries that don't spend the
Translation Cent e19r84 fionr hİern w oprkrogress or bulk of their budgets building bombs). Seal also received
Sandel 's short stories. Available Fall 1985. funds from various sources to bring two feminist Norwegian
writers and have them speak in several cities.
--excerpted from a flier by Seal Press --Thanx to FPN for that info.
Number 4 r7 November 1984
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:36:30 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
This is the true story of a stroke of genius and a lot The ad would be titled: Womanbooks Buying Guide: Books By,
of hard work. Sometime last winter, Karyn London, For, and About Women, which would both PR Womanbooks, and
Womanbooks, started thinking about an ad in The Village would lend "credibility by association" to the books adver-
Voice. An insert? But placement was a problem (we'll get tised. The advertising blocks would be arranged by
to the money problem in a minute), so she decided that what subjects, ie feminist theory, politics, mothers and child-
she wanted was to buy the center fold -- the center four ren, sexuality, women's studies, third world women, women of
pages of a VV Literary Supplement. How to pay for it? Sell colorf, i wocment anid oviolennce, ,lesb ian wrAitingsn, art,d history,
small sections "mini-ads", in blocks that would list the calendars, lives, literary criticism, etc.
title, reproduce the cover, and include a paragraph about there would be an mail-order form on the back, with infor-
the book, to publishers. mation for phoning in orders with a MC or Visa card.
That was the stroke of genius. The hard work part
added up to "more or less full-time" for three to four ER
months.
' A special advertising A brochure was designed that would function as a both
and information sheet/sales aid and as a form for placing
the actual ad copy. Right down to space to type the ad
copy, and a blank to check of the publisher was supplying
the photograph of the book or if they were sending copies of
the books to be photographed at $35 @.
ER
The arrangements with VV included (for a fee) type-
setting and layout, that there would be a 10,000 copy over-
DEDE DN run of the ad (at no additional cost) that Womanbooks could
use as a mailer to their mailing list, and use as an instore
give-away as well. And that the ad would run in the first
edition of the VV Literary Supplement that would go out for
supplement national distribution, the same edition that would be given
away free of charge to attendees of the "New York is Book
Country" fair. This has to be one of the largest book ads
Arrangements and reservations were made with VV. The ever received by the VV (and with the possibility of
ad was roughly designed. It would be four-pages, the repeats.) The VV's circulation before going national was
center-fold four pages, for maximum visibility and would be 560,000, so it would be excellent exposure for Womanbooks
an effective "pull-out" section that readers could save. and all the participating publishers.
November 1984 Volume 7 Number 4
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:36:30 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms' The Feminist Bookstore News
WOMANBOOKS FOR
l l T IAYIIIN : | SALE OR RENT?
All of which added up to a very attractive opportunity Karyn London, co-founder and proprietor of Womanbooks,
for publishers. And so Karen went to ABA as a sales rep -- inspired in part by the success of the supplement to the
selling the ads -- instead as a book buyer. Village Voice book section (see elsewhere in this issue),
Seventy three blocks were available for $225 per has decided that now is the time to move on to other things
publisher, per unit. The terms were that all ads were to be -- all the things she always wanted to do to enhance and
paid in' advance, publishers names would not be listed, and support independent and feminist bookselling and publishing
no co-op money was to be used, since this ad would give the and can't do in the time that's left over after managing a
publisher and endorsement-by-association by being in the feminist bookstore.
Womanbooks ad, and because it would be an extremely Which is wonderful. But it does leave this question of
effective ad. Womanbooks reserved the right to reject what to do with the bookstore. Karyn is looking for someone
inappropriate or offensive advertising. with a lot of serious feminist bookstore experience to take
over the store. Terms? Trans Pirtiicoe?n plans? Karyn
2E says that all depends on the person. Her primary goal is to
find someone who is capable of taking over Womanbooks. Her
best fantasy is to have it settled by the end of Womanbook's
And it worked. Wonderfully! The ad itself is f dis rc eal a myea sr w abhi och u tis fJa en muar iy n i3 sl t. bookselling in S o t hif e y o Bu i gha v e A E pV pE lR e ,h a d now is
beautiful, and is a testament to what effective advertising the time to move on İt. Call Karyn at Womanbooks. 212-873-
can be. It's esthetic, attractive, irresistible to anyone
remotely interested in women's books, and was paid for 4121
entirely by the publishers. Publishers from Harper and Row
to Kitchen Table, Crossing Press, and University of Texas
got an exceptionally effective at at a fraction of the cost
they would have paid for any comparable ad. The ad format
can be repeated two or three, or four times a year with new
titles as they come out. Karyn's next plan (after recovery)
is to do something similar in feminist print media...the
same layout could be fun in multiple magazines, could be
used by different stores, could be....
An essential part of the success seems to me to be the
careful and thoughtful planning, to make the ad as effective
and attractive to the publishers as possible. The brochure
that went out to the publishers is an ad in itself.
If you'd like a copy of the ad, send a SASE to
Womanbooks, 201 W. 92 St, NY, NY 10025.
F
Another success: Pandora Book Peddlers/New Jersey, has a
full page ad in MS. It's on page 104 of the November issue.
November
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:36:30 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
[DAS
<S
a few omissions from the f/sf "starter From Berkeley:
9/84 Starsilk, by Sydney J. Van Scyoc, $5.95 (trade).
Third of the trilogy that began with Darkchild and Bluesong
Random House $5.95 (trade). Your basic classic, which may --this woman is really good.
explain why I forgot it. Lammas sells it out of general
fiction as well as f/sf. Fram DAW (NAL):
I, Vampire, by Jody Scott, Ace, $2.50. A sort of 9/84 Forty Thousand in Gehenna, by CJ. Cherryh, $3.50.
sequel to the hilarious but OP Passing for Human, this one A convincing saga of a colony evolving toward culturehood.
is narrated by the 700-year-old (female) vampire Sterling Try it if you already have a core f/sf readership.
O'Blivion and featureš the return of the extra-terrestrial 10/84 City of Sorcery, by Marion Zimmer Bradley, $3.50.
dolphin-like Benaroya, currently passing as Virginia Woolf. Newest in the Darkover series, featuring several of the same
The Last Warrior Queen, by Mary Mackey, Berkeley, characters as Thendara House --a "must" adventure novel with
$2.75. Drawing on Sumerian legends, among other things, ali women adventurers.
this speculates what form a women-ruled society might have 11/84 The Snares of Ibex, by Jo Clayton, $2.95. The
taken in ancient times. most recent in the "Diadem" series, which has been of the
heterosexual strong-woman-with-no-peers variety -- but in
her newer work, Clayton has been moving toward more complex
women characters in varied relationships with each other.
This one might be worth looking at.
1/85 Chanur's Venture, by C. J. Cherryh, $2.95.
Sequel to the competent, intriguing Pride of Chanur, which
And now for the new stuff, arranged by publisher: featured a starship crewed by all-female members of a feline
From Ace: i race. Again, mostly for the f/sf market.
9/84 First and Final Rites, by Shariann Lewitt, $2.75. 2/85 Changer's Moon, by Jo Clayton (price n/a).
Well-handled "scimitar and sorcery" with Persian overtones, Conclusion of the "Duel of Sorcery" trilogy (Moongather and
strong women characters playing a variety of roles, and a Moonscatter -- a don't miss.
persuasive magical/spiritual component.
From Pocket:
From Ballantine (Del Rey): 10/84 Sumperluminal, by Vonda Mcintyre, $2.95. Set in
10/84 Moreta: Dragonlady of Pern, by Anne McCaffrey, outer space and under the sea, a fascinating exploration of
$3.50. Some of the history behind McCaffrey's two Pern Characters who will not fit into the roles assigned them.
trilogies. I'm halfway through and loving it -- Moreta is a Two of the tree focal characters are women. Mcintyre is the
most attractive hero. author of the popular Dreamsnake (Dell).
1984
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:36:30 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms<S
From St. Martin's Wild Trees Press is a new publishing company formed in
(Announced 8/84, received 10/84) The Silver Horse, by 1984 by Alice Walker and Robert Allen (former editor of The
Elizabeth A. Lynn, $9.95 (cloth). Something of a change in Black Scholar. Their commitment is to "publish what we
tone for, Lynn, this fantasy story features two (female) best love" and to bring out works that evidence high literary
friends of I1 or so and should go as a "young adult" novel quality and social insight. Walker calls Wild Trees' first
as well as f/sf -- if you can sell hardcovers. book A Piece of Mine, a collection of short stories by J.
12/84 Extra(Ordinary) People, by Joanna Russ, $4.95 California Cooper, "Wise and exhilarating." It its strong
(trade paper). Previously available in cloth only. folk flavor, Cooper's work reminds us of Langston Hughes and
2/85 Brightness Falls From the Air, by James Tiptree, Zora Neale Hurston. Like theirs, her style is deceptively
Ir. (real name: Alice Sheldon). $14.95 (cloth only). From simple and direct, and the vale of tears in which some of
the Tor imprint. Tiptree is a wonderful writer, but this her characters reside is never so deep that a rich chuckle
one will be for the hardcore, hardcover science fiction at the foolish person's foolishness can not be heard." Also
Crowd. available from Wild Trees are an eight photographic note
cards and a four-color 20 x 30 inch poster featuring Alice
Walker. Wild Trees Press. PO Box 378, Navarro, CA 95463.
A
UI
WRITING WANTED
7 TISS
A group of southern women now living in the San
Francisco neighborhood are putting together an Southern
Women's Anthology of short stories, poems, essays, non-
fiction, illustrations, and photos illustrating the
following themes: growing up southern, staying in or leaving
the so usotuthher,n tpradriteiojnus/dheirictaege , against
southerners, ethnic/cultural diversity in the south,
chronicles of southern women's resistance to economic
exploitation ,p orlietpircaels s iroanc,ism, and visions of
the future of the south. For writers' and artists’
guidelines write The Southern Women's Anthology, c/o Nola
Hadley, 561 El Dorado, Oakland, Ca 94611.
Sudie Rakusin/Goddesses and Amazons
Volume 7 Number 4 21 November 1984
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:36:30 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
SISTER SPIRIT
A South Bay Women's Community Project
Sisterspirit is an ambitious project going on in San
jose. Their intention is not only to open the classic
feminist bookstore/coffeehouse selling new and used books,
records, journals and magazines, lending library,
performance space, meeting room & reading area, child care
space, bulletin boards, et al, but also to publish a monthly
newsletter, calendar of events and a South Bay women's
yellow pages. If their newsletter is indicative of the rest
of their efforts, they are extremely well organized. What
follows are some excerpts from their September newsletter:
SUMMER SUCCESSES
SisterSpirit came together in April 1984. In these
past four months we have accomplished much. We incorporated
and received state tax exempt status June 28, and we are
presently in the process of filing for federal tax exempt
status. We have expanded from the original four core
members to a group consisting of three collectives (Core,
Fundraising, and Outreach). We have submitted two grants to
San Francisco foundations - The Women's Foundation and Van-
guard Foundation.
Our greatest success though has been the weekly summer
coffeehouse which has run every Friday night (with two
exceptions) since May 29. Because this was a donated space, BUDGET
we were able to run it only through August 24. It was a INCOME E X PENSES
sample of the women's programming we wish to bring to San
Jose through the women's bookstore/coffeehouse. The summer Contributions $ 432.62 Coffeehouse supplies $206.44
coffeehouse°'s prograınming illustrated a commitment to Income from 9 Records to sell 112.61
multi-cultural presentations. The greatest success of the coffeehouses 1017.99 Fliers 211.83
coffeehouse was you! The summer coffeehouse depended $1450.61 Bulk mail stamps 56.90
completely on donated baked goods and space and volunteers (2) Grant writing
energy and time. Without your efforts the coffeehouse would workshops 65.90
not have been as successful. Likewise the support of the Incorporation costs 91.89
; Business cards 48.79
; Women's Unity D Checakinyg account costs 42.05
Sisterspirit women's coffeehouse was far beyond any table rental 12.50
expectations which demonstrated the need and desire for such Outreach Costs 16.50
a place in San Jose. Below is the summer coffeehouse $865.41
budget. Money in bank $585.61
November 1984 22 Volume 7 Number 4
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:36:30 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist
BOOKS AND RECORDS BUOK PEOPLE
AT 10% OFF Announces
We are now taking orders for women's music albums,
tapes and books. You can purchase all of these at a dis- Special Holiday
count from regular retail prices. To obtain a free catalog Ordering Hours
of over 100 women's music listings and 600 women's books,
write to us at Sisterspirit with a self-addressed legal For your convenience during the busy
sized envelope with at least .37 postage. holiday season, Bookpeople is
All albums and tapes are $7.50. You can pick up your expanding business hours.
orders at Sisterspirit functions or arrange to pick them up
at the homes of core collective members.
Starting November 12, our Order
In sisterhood, Department will be open one hour
earlier on weekdays for telephone
Marilyn Cook Karen Hester orders from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. (Pacific Time)
Fran Kasper Amy Caffrey We will also be open for telephone
Mary Jeffries orders on Saturdays (Novernber 17, 24,
December 1, 8, and 15) from 8 a.m.
Sisterspirit Core Collective to noon.
(And on the back of the page, along with the listings of In Calif o 8rn 0i 0a - c 6al 2l 4 t -o 4ll 4-f 6re 6e:
books and records available, is a form for donating money, In the continental U.S. call toll-free:
time, and for getting on the mailing list.) 800-227-1516
In Alaska & Hawaii call collect:
415-549-3030
i Please have your account number
ready when ordering.
Remember UPS orders placed by
noon PST are shipped the same day.
There’s no per title minimum and
e order of 10 or more calendars or books
(may be combined) earn the discount.
Along with our regular weekday ware-
house hours (9-5), Bookpeople will be
open on Sundays (November 25,
December 2, 9, and 16) from 10 a.m.
to 3 p.m.
Courtesy of Booklegger Archives Bookpeople will be closed for
Thanksgiving, November 22, but will be
open for business on Friday, November 23.
a B B S BO SOK SE E SR SA SV SA SCS
Volume 7 Number 4 November 1984
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:36:30 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsDid You Know? Ms Magazine has finally developed a way write: Jacquelyn Marie, Reference Librarian, Mecllenry
to get your books in MS. For only about $1000, you can run Library, UCSC, Santa Cruz, CA 95064.
an ad that looks like a book review, and then readers can Lonnie Barbach's Pleasures: Women Write Erotica has had
order the books from Ms Mailorder. Volcano Press is trying it's movie option picked up. Don't know by who, but it's
it with Menopause, Naturally. Hope it works, but it isn't something to give thought, (or fantasy?) to. Penthouse has
exactly cheap! picked up an expert. Strange bedfellows and all that.
NWSA will be in Seattle this year. June 19-23 at U, of Women and Children First celebrated her fifth birthday
Washington. Won't overlap with ALA this year, which will on November 10. W&CF celebrated all day with story readings
make things easier and crazier. Jacquelyn Marie will be in and singing for children, music, Make It Mime Feminist Mime
charge of the small press book display. For more info Troupe and ... Ta Da Ta Dum De Dum! The veteran actresses of
the Women & Children First Players presenting another
origjnal, hilarious skit on Life In A Feminist Bookstore
Along with food and drink, and raffles with lots of prizes.
(WIP Conference organizers: do you think you could
import this excellent entertainment for the WIP conference?
I don't see how we can do without it!)
November programs at W&CF included a reading by Barbara
Wilson (Murder in the Collective) (My girlfriend wants to
know if that's a documentary or a novel), workshops in
making your own electrical repairs, basic carpentry and
plumbing skills, herbal first aid, the birthday party, a
Saturday morning story reading for 4-8 year olds, and
another one with stories and rhymes for pre-schoolers, and a
specPial pre-hroliday weomen-osnly shsopping. ni)ght highlighted by
a reading from Bernice by Georgia Jo Ressmeyer (Metis
I heard this at a COSMEP meeting and it's true: The
Post Office will print your return address on prestamped
envelopes for the modest fee of $9.85 per 500 envelopes
(that includes the printing AND the envelopes) plus the
value of the postage. And as Ī recall, they mailed the
envelopes to me for free. Sure saves time and energy. You
can get regular or window envelopes in 6 3/4" size or stan-
dard business size. Non profits can get precancelled bulk-
November 1984 24 Volume 7 Number 4
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:36:30 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsrate stamped envelopes as well. Minimum order is 500. Ask
at your local PO or write or phone the US Postal Service, US $7.95
Stamped Envelope AESRCY: Williamsburg, PA 16693-0500. 814- ISBN 0-930143-00-0
832-3229. You need PS Form 3203 to order them on. (When PEARLCHILD, 1984
they say "Service", Susanna, they mean Services-for-
Businesses, not people. But this is the only one I've ever T ash e ai m a cg ue ls t uw re e ,s e e, help
found that does us any favors.) define and expand
A Different Light, a bookstore serving gay and lesbian owr dreams, owr
readers in Los Angeles received and commendation, in the images of what is
form of a proclamation from the Senate of the State of possible.
California, for their valued contribution to the community.
dist. by INLAND
and BOOKPEOPLE
A Thousand Pieces of Gold (Dell and Design Enter-
prises), the fictionalized autobiography of a Chinese woman BEST SELLER DEPT : Inlands best-selling
in the 1800's who was brought to the US as a slave after the book in’November was Murder in the Collective, with 400
Emancipation Proclamation, as been optioned for the silver copies going out to bookstores in a two week period.
screen by BBZ Films Ltd. If BBZ exercises this option, Always wanted to get into selling software, but finding
author Ruthanne Lum McCunn will get 3 1/2 % of the final no good feminist titles? Fear no more. Now available for
approved shooting budget to a maximum of $125,000. the Apple Ile are the first two titles from MicroEd's Women
Lifestyle Bookstore & Gifts celebrated their first In History series: Women in Ancient Greece and Rome and
birthday with a book review and discussion of Claire Women in Medieval/Renaissance Europe. Suggested retail
Morgan's The Price of Salt in conjunction with Ishtar -- The price is $79.95. If you want to plunge right into this
Tampa Womyn Writer's Guild. field, call or write MicroEd, PO Box 444005, Eden Prairie,
MN 55344. 612-944-8750.
agi ay ii L LA
ÜL,
Number 4
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:36:30 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsBearing Witness/Sobreviviendo: An Anthology of Writing after a number of years of publishing and distributing the r
and Art by Native American/Latina Women. Special issue of work of SDiane Bogus:
Calyx (PO Box B, Corvallis, OR 97339), $4.50 130p. A I, Lilian, Here, I. Lillian Randolph. "A rare
collection of poetry, prose and art work by 44 Native achievement in destroying stereotypical thinking, this
American and Latina women. Two years in the making, this woman's sympathies as a white in a racist world are not
issue was edited by six women who were spread geographically those usually expressed. She is not sorry or ashamed of
throughout Oregon, Washington, Montana, California, Iowa and being white or for marrying a man of color -- she is rather
Oklahoma. Which only shows what challenges we can and will proud and mature and deeper for the experience. She speaks
‘surmount to get the work out! Contributors include Wendy out about being white like a kid pleased to acknowledge her
Rose, Paula Gunn Allen, Jo Cochran, Beth Brant, Cherrie presence on the first day of school. I Lillian Here is that
eM fo or ra eg a p, u bL li in shd ea d .H o Itg a n is.. . . a a rs i cw h e l al n das w w oo nm dee rn f u w l h co o l lh ecav tie o n never kind o Af c ou Vra og ieo cu es, e Sxp oe mctan et t, i mpre epa sr ed SD ou arot tnt he yer a L.n o vc e .e ". Mystic,
that you can't be without. Even if you don't normally carry Lesbian, Feminist Poetry. She's no stranger to readers of
Calyx, order copies of this issue. Standard bookstore Sinister Wisdom and Essence.
discount. Intro to Finê, Adele Sebastian. Dead at 27 of lupus,
this collection spans ten years of the writings of this
Black writer and musician.
Verses in the Wind, Mary Brewster. "Anti-war, Pro-
Human, Christian Poems, December, 1984
A Small Pain, Flyin' Thunda Cloud. Flyin' Thunda Cloud
is a .rdoc (that's "radical dyke of color") for the
uninitiated. The publishers asks that readers who live
comfortable lives and have genteel sensibilities please not
buy this book. Readers of Common Lives/Lesbian Lives,
Azalea, Lesbian Connection, and Lesbian Inciter will know
much of her work. December 1984 publication date.
Also from WIM: Chery! Coleman, midwest jazz, folk-rock
artist known on the midwest feminist and lesbian coffeehouse
circles (and performing partner of the illustrious SDiane
Bogus), has a new cassette tape Take Back the Night
featuring her work on a twelve-string, and electric
guitars, soft love songs to hard rock. $7.00
W.I.M. Publications (A Black-owned, woman-owned general The above books are all short runs, 25-35 page
and specialty press), announces a whole series of new books chapbooks, $6 @, 40% discount to bookstores.
26 Volume 7 Number 4
1984
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:36:30 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsWomen Who Loved Women, Tee Corinne, Pearlchild, $7.95 will sell from the history section. Or they'll send you one
pap eWhrat . bo okA da re s cthois lbollde tcitlte?ion of for free if you'd just like to browse through it for the
posters (reduced to book size) of 75+ women who "loved books and posters reviewed. A great resource. NWHP, PO Box
women" (Yes, Virginia, I do think that means sexually). The 3716, Santa Rosa, CA 95402. :
posters were conceived with Tee discovered a Xerox machine You should have in hand by now: Women-Centered
that could do enlargements of photos. Enlargement followed Pregnancy and Birth and The Absence of the Dead is Their Way
enlargement, followed by an urge to clarify the enlargements of Appearing from Cleis Press. AT BP, Inland, or better
with conte, crayola and pastels...that grew into a order direct from the Cleis Office nearest you: PO Box
collection of 85 posters of women, sometimes several of the
same woman at different times in her life or with different
lovers, that were exhibited at Valencia Rose in San
Francisco and Ollie's in Oakland. How do you make an art
exhibit travel? Turn it into a book. llence, Women Who
Loved Women. You'll find "everyone" here, from Marlene
Dietrich to Qui Jin, from Gladys Bentley to Janet Flanner,
and of course Natalie Clifford Barney, Eleanor Roosevelt,
and maybe a few women you hadn't known loved women. Each
woman's image is accompanied by a reference to guide you to
more information about her and her affections Having seen
the original show, I wish that the reproduction was clearer.
But I don't think I'd trade the better grade of paper that
would require for the low price tag. One gives a little to
getp a llittale, y etc. iFlinppingg thr oug h Tthis h booki iss like
in a lesbian family photo album. is a
brilliant strategy for releasing a lot of copyrighted images
directly into the lesbian domain. Shelve this book in
History, as well as Lesbian. And remind customers that
books cited that are OP can likely be found using inter-
library loan. (Distributed by Inland and BP. Please order
from distributors.)
Zil:
The National Women's History Project publishes a 48
page catalogue that is chock full of unexpected and too
little known history resources for teaching women's history
in the schools. Catalogues are .20 ® for 5-25 copies, and Tee Corinne
Number 4 November
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:36:30 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsBookstore News
8933, Pittsburgh, PA 15221 or PO Box 14684, San Francisco, women's groups in the Northeast USA by women of all ages. A
CA 94114. guide to other new women's rituals and sources for enhancing .
History of Women for Children in a standard coloring their use is provided in an appendix.
book format, presents a pretty solid history of women for Aural Sex & Verbal Intercourse, Isadora Alman, Down
pre-school through fourth graders. It is clear and direct ‘There Press (PO Box 2086, Burlingame, CA 94010) $8.50. This
("Even through men women still did important work for their is a casual, off-the-cuff history of the San Francisco Sex
group, MEN HAD GAINEDPOWER BY TAKING IT AWAY FROMWONMEN.") Information Switchboard and the true-life experiences of a
and doesn't bother to gloss over the fact that men beat volunteer as she goes through training and staffing the
their wives and it was legal, etc. Multi-cultural and phones. Flippant, infor bumtation filled. Not much on
multi-racial images. It is a good introduction for young lesbians, I had to note, except an anti-separatism response
children and a solid plea for a more humane world. One to a call that did not make me feel humorous. Not sure who
wonders why this book didn't appear years ago! $4.95. the intended audience is, future volunteers or people
Avail B & T, or direct from the publisher/author Vivian looking for snippets of information, or the future funding
Sheldon Epstein, 212 South Dexter St., #26, Denver, CO sources of SFSI. Whatever. It's a better read than
80222. Everything You Always Wanted to Know About Sex.
Diana Lucifera, Marilyn Krysi, Shameless Hussy Press
(PO Box 3092, Berkeley, CA 94707) $2.95. A long prose poem
of a woman regaining her power. Written 1978? Probably at
PP.
Gathering Ground, edited by Jo Cochran, J. T. Stewart
The Political Life of American Jewish Women, Susan and Mayumi Tsutakawa. Seal Press, (312 S. Washington,
Welch, Ph.D and Fred Ullrich. Biblio Press (PO Box 22, Fresh Seattle, Wa 98104) $6.95. BP & Inland. Gathering Ground is
Meadows, NY 11365) $5.95 75pp. "Is there a gender gap among
Jews? This monograph examines the way Jewish women
participate in politics and their beliefs about some
important political issues. Uses survey data from 1972 to
1982 to compare Jewish women to Jewish men and to Protestant
and Catholic women to compare similarities and differences.
Several Jewish women important in 20th century American
politics are highlighted. And coming in the spring of 1985
will be Miriams's Well: Rituals for Jewish Women Around the
Year by Penina V. Adelman. "A compilation of new woman-
centered Jewish rituals designed for women's groups, based
on Rosh Hodesh gatherings for all the months of the Jewish
Year. Significant women's occasions are marked. Many of
the stories, poems and songs based on ancient and modern
sources inéluded here have been used in rituals with Jewish
Margaret A Davidson/Gathering Ground
1984 Volume 7 Number 4
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:36:30 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsa collection of writings and art work by women of color who
live in the Pacific Northwest. From the very front cover, a
painting in browns, ochres and red against greys and green,
of three women embraced, there is a sense of gathering in,
of gathering together of who "we" (the "we" of the editors)
are, of experience, both their own, and their foremothers
and birth mothers, into ground on which a woman can walk
with pride. Again and again, as I read this book, I had
that (now) familiar sense of relief that comes of finding
something essential, something I needed to know, said out
loud -- written down so clearly that it can never again be
denied or forgotten. Already in it's second printing, this
book is both essential and a gift.
4l;
And from Naiad Press and hot off the presses: We Too
Are Drifting, another novel in Naiad's great series of
reprints. Òriginally published in 1s93e5,t in San Womanbooks has been at it again: The Lesbian Catalog
Francisco and e Inx qaduditiiosni ttoe .t h e t nhoveel,re Supplement to the Lesbian Catalog Four (Fall/Winter 1983-84)
will be photo's of Wilhelm and an introduction that tells is now out and about. It's a six page booklet. Don't know
all that is currently known about Wilhelm's life. It's a what the price is for the supplement, but my guess is that
lovely novel. Would that she had followed with dozen's it comes free with the catalogue ($! @, 40% for bulk
more. She only did one other that reached print Torchlight orders.) And that if you have copies of the 83-84 catalogue
to Valhalla, and Naiad will be publishing that, too, though and write Womanbooks and tell them how many inserts you
no date has been set. need, they'll send them for a very reasonable cost. It's an
And in January, Naiad will do two by Jane Rule: A Hot incredible collection of lesbian-books-in-print to have to
SE ty oe rd ie sM . o $d 7e .9r 5at e p a- p- e r E s as nay d s $ a 1n 3d .9 5 I n cl la on td h . P Wass ha ag te ca an nd I O t sah ye ?r JR s tel hl ao tf f at rhe e s h je ulf s. t building A thls eo ir ’ a c osu llp ee cr tib o n r se .source for T b ho eo k cs at to ar loe gs ue
has quite the following and the books walk off the shelf and serves as a mail-order tool for Womanbooks, but unlike most
out the door. It's been a long time since there's been any mail order catalogues, this one includes the publishers of
new JR books and the fans have been getting hungry. Naiad the books to make it helpful to other booksellers.
dearly loves bookstores that order direct, most especially The other superb catalogue in the industry in the
those big first orders. Their address is PO Box 10543, Ladyslipper Catalog of Records and Tapes by Women. The 1985
Tallahassee, Florida 32302. edition is out. If you haven't already gotten it in the
November
Number 4 29
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:36:30 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
| mail, drop everything and write for it right now! Sixty Places of Interest to Women: The 1985 Women's Travel
| some pages of women's music. I used to keep a copy by the Guide*USA*Canada*Caribbean. Ferrari Publications (PO
firont desk as aO resourcer for adnsweringe questrions. 150,000 Box35575, Phoenix, AZ 85069) $6.00. "Women" is a euphemism.
copies in print. Also available on tape from the Womyn's This is one of the two essential guidebooks for Lesbians
Braille Press, PO Box 8475, Minneapolis, MN 55408. (The other being Gaia's Guide, which also covers Europe).
from Ladyslipper, Inc. PO Box 3130, Durham, NC 27705. Don't Includes listings of bars, bookstores, restaurants, clubs, &
know if the catalogues are still available for resale in services including gay and lesbian AA meetings (there's one
bookstores, but I think it's be a great idea, Sell 'em of each in my old home town!) and women's centers with
right out of the record bins. lesbian programs and/or that welcome lesbians. Essential.
Murder in the Collective, Barbara Wilson. Seal Press.
$7.95 paper. A feminist murder mystery with a sense of
humor as Wilson continues to explore the dynamics of working Zl!
in the movement, of best intentions juxtaposed against the
real world. A little politics, a little romance, a little o
sex in the interest of "more responsible actions" (maybe
this is a documentary after all?) as Our Heroine slogs Fall books from The Women's Press Canada: Good Morning
rth acr eo ,u g sh ex ,t h ce l a sd sa il ay n d b u imsin pe es rs i a lo isf m u n int a n tg hl ei n g d a it lyh e b c uo sm inp el se sx i ot fies of tF Idyr epa an i lc n a y l f , o e r i G g ao h lo t ld - y f eN ivai r eg - h o tlt d o F ewr ia ghn hon t y h ya p" eA ap re n J s o o l dy t so o ,u s u t h st e ia s l e a b eo w af uh t e ia e f l u m lc lyhar av ire .lously
running a print shop and picking up the bodies on the illustrated picture book is fun to read and a subtle but
d thar ek r fo eo mm in if sl to o br u. s iJ nu es st s . the thing to read after a hard day at effective learning tool. $4.95. Full Color.
If He Comes Back He's Mine: A Mother's Story of Child
Abuse. A true story, told by a woman who abused her child.
Without excuse or self-pity, Elizabeth Camden recounts the
story of her own childhood, a teenaged love affair, the
birth of a son and the pain he suffered at her hands. |t is
a story of pain, love, and courage. With one in ten
children the victim of abuse, it is also a story that has to
be told. $7.95 :
Not an Easy Choice: A Feminist Re-examines Abortion,
Kathleen McDonnell. "If most Canadians admit they support a
woman's right to an abortion, why does the controversy still
rate? Are there issues that the pro-choice movement hasn't
addresses--issues that remain confused and unresolved that
have prevented a clear victory? Using responses from women
who have had abortions she describes the often conflicting
November 1984 Volume 7 Number
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:36:30 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
needs and emotions experienced prior to and after aborting.
The author also attempts to unravel the ethical debates on
abortion, examines the constituency and strategy of the
anti-choice movement, evaluates .the arguments regarding mens
rights in abortion decisions and explores the larger issues
of. reproductive rights." $8.95
Labour Pains: Women's Work in Crisis, Pat Armstrong.
"A stunning analysis of current economic patterns.
Armstrong explains why women's employment will deteriorate
both absolutely and in relation to men. Her thoughtful and
comprehensively detailed arguments herald a warning for the
future--that the working women of Canada will likely emerge
from this crisis in a more uncertain position than before."
$9.95 The 1985 Sara Steele Calendar!
Baker's Dozen: Stories by Women. "Using humor, fan- A new collection of Sara Steele's stunning watercolors
tasy, myth and satire, thirteen authors tell of creative the most gorgeous calen t do a r b r oi ng h t te hn e 1 m9 a8 r5 k.. e. t today.
ways women have :found to deal with the varieties of Retail price: $7.95
oppression we know so well. Stories delve into the Wholesale prices: NO RETURNS ........ $4.35 (45 +%)
intricacies and contradictions of relationships both lesbian RETURNS by Jan. 15, 1985 ......... $4.75 (40 +%)
and heterosexual. Personal responses to political realities Terms: COD first order, 30 days net thereafter
provide a focus for other writers. Themes such as WRITE OR CALL FOR OUR NEW 1985 CATALOG OF
adolescence, the search for independence, black women's RECORDS & TAPES BY WOMEN, WITH 1000 + LISTINGS
struggles, activism and violence against women are also LADYSLIPPER ° P.O. BOX 3 O 1r 2d 4er f ©ro m D: URHAM, NC 27705
addressed." $7.95 (919) 683-1570
Love's Sweet Return: The Harlequin Story, Margaret Ann
Jensen. "Examines the phenomenon of romance fiction,
a Harlequin-type publishing house that slowly subverts it's
focusing specifically on one of the most successful book readership to wild and passionate feminism.) $8.95
publishers in the world, the Canadian-based Harlequin The Women's Press books are available in the USA from
Enterprises. Jensen details the rise of the company, BP and Inland.
examines the Harlequin formula and evaluates the growth and
impact of both Harlequin and its competition. She also The Annotated Guide to Women's Periodicals in the US
addresses recent changes in the content of, Harlequins. and Canada lists over 250 publications from across the US &
Jensen's interviews with readers and her portraits of Canada. Each publication is briefly reviewed by category
Harlequin authors offer some startling insights into a major and indexed by title and geographically. It's a 52 page,
component of popular culture today." (Haven't seen this perfect bound booklet. Subs are $I2/ind (2 issues) and
book, yet, but I wonder if there's anything useful her for $20/inst. & Lib. $6.50 /(siinnglde . c o p$y1),0. Inst.
feminist publishers. One of my wilder fantasies is to start Edited by Terry Mehlman. Also includes French language
Number 4
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:36:30 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
publications. Order from Annotated Guide, c/o NSIWS, Box E- feminist reality; living our visions now in our daily lives
94, Earlhan College, Richmond, IN 47374. as individual women, in relationships, and in community.
Living Our Visions: Building Feminist Community, Feminist process guidelines section includes: Creating
Donna Hawxhurst and Sue Morrow. Fourth World (110 W. Geneva feminist groups and organizations; demystification of
Drive, Tempe, AZ 85282) $6.50 paper. "Part of the growing process; empowerment and advocacy; honesty, safety and
body of feminist literature dealing with the specifics of trust;responsibility; communication; consensus; anger and
making our feminist visions a reality. Addresses: the conflict resolution; celebration and play. The book grows
feminist utopian visions that we harbor; feminism as a out of the authors experiences as feminist theoreticians,
major force in the transformation of our personal, social, consultants, educators and activists over a ten year period.
and environmental existence; the untapped, dynamic power of 40% discount to bookstores. No minimum order as a support
feminist groups, organizations and communities; the gesture to small bookstores. Returns in saleable condition
practical aspects of transforming feminist ideology into accepted.
WOMEN AND WORDS:
p THE ANTHOLOGY
1985 A celebration! Stories,
essays and poems by 80
Simple Lifestyle Calendar Canadian women from all
walks of life display a di-
Once distributed only in Appalachia, this unique and v mers ae t ia on nd c o on ffi d e fnt e m af if nir i- sm.
quietly beautiful wall calendar has since captured 287 pp $10.95 (Can.) pb
country lovers’ hearts across the nation. Warren 5⁄2 x 8/2
Brunner’s prize-winning, evocative black-and-white
photographs tell of the simple joys of the Ap- EARTH WITCH "i EARTH WITCH
palachian Mountains. Offering 365 daily simple by Anne Cameron :
lifestyle suggestions, the calendar enriches your life A powerful book of poems
with homespun advice. 8⁄2 x11 format. Ivory about one woman’s escape
linen-finish stock. Saddle-stitched. from deadening housewif-
ery to a new world of liber- H
Retail $4.75 40% Discount a lt oin vg e ar bt eis tt wic e ecr ne a ti won o m an ed n .t :
Available by direct pur- 69 pp $5.95 (Can.) pb
chasing or consignment. 5⁄4 x 81/2
ASPI PUBLICATIONS Write for free catalog from
HARBOUR PUBLISHING ° Box 219, Madeira Park,
P.0. Box 298 B.C. Canada VON 2HO
Livingston, KY 40445
(606) 453-2105 or U of T Press, 3 U3E .S . AT .u p 1p 4e 2r 0 3 St., Buffalo, N.Y.,
Hovember 1984
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:36:30 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsDL eE l( S MpB arI tA in)N & 3 W Phy:O llM 9is A Ly5N on. Ban tam1.98 S OT liO v1R e Y S cO h1F r e iA nN e.r . A0 PF .R I SC m0A iN th F (A j-R leM ss)2.98
OF WOMAN BORN CONFESSIONS OF CHERUBINO
Adrienne Rich. Bantam (p) 3.95 1.98 Bertha Harris. Daughters (p) 5.00 1.00
SHAKER, WHY DONT YOU A WOMAN
Maya Angelou. Random. 7.95 1.98 Sibilla Aleramo. Calif. 10.95 1.00
THE BURNING HOUSE H. D.: The Life and Work of an
Ann Beattie. Random. 12.95 3.98 American Poet
Janice S. Robinson. HM. 17.95 3.98
GREEN THOUGHTS: A Writer in
the Garden IMAGINARY CRIMES
Eleanor Perenyi. Random. 15.50 3.98 Sheila Ballantyne. Viking. 13.95 2.98
POETS IN THEIR YOUTH: A Memoir LETTERS OF EDNA ST.
Eileen Simpson. Random. 15.50 4.98 VINCENT MILLAY
THE LONDON SCENE A. R(. Mpacdoug)all. ed. Dow7n East. P9ress5 1.98 ” s Ai
Virginia Woolf. Random. 10.00 3.98 MHAREGPUTERAITEM DEE R NAOVNAR R E'ŻS y A
SUBJECT WOMEN
Ann Oakley. Pantheon (p) 7.95 1.98 Themes, Language, and Structure £
Marcel Tetel. Duke. 14.00 3.98 /
OLD MISTRESSES
Women, Art, and Ideology THE OBSESSION: Reflections of the £ /
Rozsika Parker & Griselda Pollock. Tyranny of Slenderness
Pantheon (p) 10.95 2.98 Kim Chernin. Harper. 13.50
THE COLLECTED STORIES OF PORNOGRAPHY AND SILENCE
ELIZABETH BOWEN Culture's Revenge Against Nature
Elizabeth Bowen. Vintage (p) 8.95 3.98 Susan Griffin. Harper. 13.95
CW yO n1M thE iN a 8 FIN uc h L s.A W E5pstein0. Bas ic. 4.98 EW . HO oM weE ll N & MA . N BD ay e s,M eE d.N BT asA icL . HEALTH
27.50 N E A E G O E N D a
Q(UTESeT:n A FWeminrisat p Qpuaretderl y Issues) 4.98 I HN eS lI eD nE F R . E SD n oC wH . I N DA a Capo (p) 7.95
THE A TO Z OF WOMEN'S HEALTH
A CONCISE ENCYCLOPEDIA
Chr1istine3 Amm.er9. Ev5erest (p) 3.98
A 25 book order minimum qualifies for
DAUGHTERS OF RACHEL a 50% non-returnable discount. Mail
Women in israel
Natalie Rein. Penguin (p) 4.95 1.00
Daedalus Books
SISTER WOLF 2260 25th PI. N.E.
An(n I Amrensbergp. Siodgwirch &t J)ack so n2.98 Washington, D.C. 20018
(202) 526-0558
Volum e 7 Number 4 33 November 1984
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:36:30 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsimages to fulfill all the needs that appear the moment this
says it better than I can: "Radiance was created with the item is in hand. (ie no images of women & books suitable
hope of bringing large women support, encouragement, humor, for FBN). The other difficulty is that it is expensive to
reproduce images on a paper quality that works for repro-
bodies and their lives!" The first issue is 40 pages, duction. But it's certainly an attempt to fill a need!
following issues will be larger as more of a network is First issue is 16 pages of images, retail price is $25, $!5
formed. Radiance is looking for distributors and also to bookstores, and $10 for 5+ copies. Subscriptions are
writers. Bookstore terms not sent, but the subscription $75/year for four issues. Jewels Graphics, 3921 Webster
rate breaks down to 2.50 per issue. It's a quarterly. This St., Oakland, CA 94609.
first issue reflects a bay area focus, but I think it will
be of national interest, anyway. Articles focus on self- MAIZE
love and self-acceptance, the book list includes Shadow on a
Tightrope and The Obsession. Order from Radiance, PO Box
31703, OaMkland, a Ca i 94z 6 A04e . L:es bi ana C ou nttryh Miargaztiney. page A LESBIAN COUNTRY MAGAZINE
magazine for lesbians who live in the country or wish they
did. Which is a lot of potential readership! Articles in
#2 looked at Life and Death on the Farm (raising sheep),
feminism and the dairy goat industry, homeopathy for dykes,
ideas, announcements. | learned that that damned weed bur-
dock is really the Japanese vegetable gabo, gone independent
(read that "wild") and that the solution to the problem was
to eat it. Recipes included.
was best about the now-defunct and fondly remembered Country
Women, right down to the hominess and excellent graphics and
layout. $3.00. Order from Word Weavers, PO Box 8742,
Minneapolis, MN 55408.
Feminist Clip Art is a brilliant idea.
art', that wonder of a copyright free source of images that
can be cut out and pasted-down on posters, fliers,
periodicals etc. Very strong on non-traditional images and
women of color. I think that what is hardest is beginning
-- hard to start out with a diverse enough collection of
1984 Volume 7
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:36:30 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
Sage: A Scholarly Journal on Black Women. edited by
Patricia Bell Scott (co-author But Some of Us Are Brave) and
Beverly Guy-Sheftall (co-author Sturdy Black Bridges). An
interdisciplinary forum for the discussion of issues
relating to Biack women E.a c hissued includes feature
articles, critical essays, i nin-tdeeptrhviews, book
Ne
reviews, research reports, etc. Themes for the first four
Issues are education, mother-daughter relationships, health,
and black feminist theory. $8.00/issue, 40% discount to l vt W K A A ZINNNNN SNy
bookstores. No returns. (Hopefully that will change to
allow a smoother flow of the magazine through the book- Á 2N N pi s
stores.) Sage, PO Box 42741, Atlanta, Ga 30311. Z A
R
$ r A W
,
Women Writing in America: (Trying to Understand What
It Means to be a Feminist) is a special issue of Contact/i!
edited by Rochelle Ratner. It came out in January, but will
be "current" for a long time to come. Includes essays on
the persons and writings of H.D., Judy Grahn, Denise
Levertov, Audre- Lorde, Adrienne Rich, Diane DiPrima, Diane
Wakoski, Susan Sherman, Susan Fromberg-Schaeffer, Leslie
Marmon Silko, Carolyn Forche, Muriel Rukeyser.... Need I say Telewoman is a national lesbian networking newsletter
more? $4.00 Also from Contact/Il is a special issue called with an emphasis on resources and contacts for women who
W tho em see n w oW mr ei nti n fg o r O n th. o W se it oh f w uo sn d we hrf ou l l i kp eh o tt oo g r ga ap zeh s u pof on ,m a an s y w eo lf l w wri ote m p eo net r y w a hnd o s f eic t i son p, i rw io tm ue an l i n p eth re s p ar et cs t ian vd e s p h o at rog er a p ch ey n, tral in their
as listen to.... Also reviews of many of the finest col- everyday lives. Book reviews, emphasis on graphics and
lections of women's poetry. $6.00 40% discount to book- cover art by lesbians links between country and city
stores. Order from Contact Il Publications, Box 451, Bowing lesbians." Telewoman has always thought of herself as a bay
Green, New York, NY 10004. i area publication, but recently did a head count of the sub-
scribers and found that 68% of the circulation live outside
i the bay area and decided to go national, since they already
were. $2.00/issue. 40% to bookstores. Write for free
sample copy. Free sample 3 month subscription on request.
Telewoman, PO Box 2306, Pleasant Hill, Ca 94523.
Volume 7 Number 4 35 November
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:36:30 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsBookstore News
—
... a3
JOURNAL: Goddesses and Amazons is an illustrated Rag[. This is the second edition, a little different from
journal that features Sudie Rakusin's drawings of the same, the first: a purple cover instead of gray, each copy comes
sometimes interspersed with a bit of information, shrink-wrapped to arrive in immaculate condition, and
contemporary images and some wonderful woman-creatures that there's a discount for bookstores built into the new price.
$14.95, 40% discount to bookstores. One free copy will be.
shipped when 15+ are ordered to be used as a display copy.
Dispora will be distributing them, or order direct fro Sudie
Rakusin, FO Box 88, Brooke, VA 22430.
Finally Real is Sylvia Kohan's long-time-coming first
album. First of many, here's hoping. This recording really
does it to me. Some combination of Kohan's voice and the
things she does with it, partly l'Il listen to anything with
Mary Watkins on pianos and synthesizers, but mix that with
the genius that is Watkin's arranging and I'm off the deep
end. Dancing Cat Records, PO Box 639, Santa Cruz, CA 95061
or your local wamen's music distributor.
We Are Among You --Lesbians with Disabilities.
Prepared and presented by Kim, Candi, Pat, Mari, Alison. An
informative and emotional presentation by five Minneapolis
Lesbians iwth chronic and permanent disabilities. These
Lesbians take the risks to share of themselves in these
personal stories about disabilities, illnesses, hopitals,
social services, families, Lesbian families, hopes, dreams,
needs, and the Lesbain community. Recorded live at A
Woman's Coffeehouse in Minneapolis. Two tapes, two hours.
For winmin only. $8.50.
Sudie Rakusin/Goddesses and Amazons
must come out of Sudie's own mind. I'm quite infatuated But the Dreams They Come Lyrics and music by Barbara
with the mer-dyke with her arm around a dolphin, myself. Jensen. Introducing Barbara Jensen, a creative singer-
Lots of wonderful drawings and lots of room to write in, as songwriter. She touches on subjects infrequently heard
well. One of the pleasures of this journal is the high about in song--death, being working class, being Jewish,
quality paper it's printed on. You've probably seen her addictions, the world of dreams, and even Lesbian love. For
work in[ SWI, [OOBI, [CL/LLI, [The Inciter[, and [Big Mama wimmin only. $7.25 60 min.
November 1984 Volume 7 Number 4
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:36:30 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
:
CARDS: The very popular "If you can walk you can Twenty Plus acoustic and electric guitar by Maribeth
dance, If you can talk, you can sing" Zimbabwe card, and Shriner. Maribeth Shriner has been writing and perfecting
another, "The more sweat in peace, The less blood in war." these solo instrumental guitar songs for over twenty years.
Graphics feature third world women in traditional dress and Side one: intricate and upbeat tunes on 12 string acustic
are some of the most joyous cards around. They sell at guitar. Side two: healing, soothing, electric guitar music.
$1.00 @ (easily). 40% discount. Write for a free sample if For wimmin only $7.25. 60 min.
you haven't seen them. Burning Spear Publications, PO Box
27205, Oakland, Ca 94602.
MORE CARDS: Wacky line drawings of fantastic and sweet Radical Rose Recordings, a Lesbian cassette project founded
creatures. Brochure and sample cards available. Retail is in 9982, has released three new tapes, bringing the total to
$.80 @, 50% discount. Lune Beams, 225 Merry St., Madison, 13 tapes released: (PO Box 8122, Minneapolis, MN55408.
WI 53704. Distribution tems not sent.)
OOPS! Corrections! I incorrectly reported the returns Can't Kill the Spirit 1985 Peace Calendar is from the
policy on the Sara Steele Calendar (distributed by Lady- Syracuse Cultural Workers Project. $6.75. A beautiful and
slipper) in the last issue. The correct policy is that it woman-strong calendar with people's history dates, lunar
must be returned by January 15th. cycles, holidays, resource pages, and wonderful graphics.
Fetons la Femme! is a poster calendar featuring line
drawings of 32 contemporary French-speaking women leaders
in fields as varied as diplomacy, fashion design and litera-
ture from France, Canada, Africa and elsewhere. 21x3!,
printed on heavy pale green paper. Entries include names
and birthdays of famous people of the French-speaking world,
and also the dates of important professional meetings for
language teachers. Bulk rates clear. Retail is $6.75, but
$5@ for 5 and $4 ® for 40+. Bookstore terms probably lie
somewhere in between. Order from ACTFL Materials Center, PO
Box 408, Hastings on Hudson, NY 10706
Volume 7 Number 4
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:36:30 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
be graphically excellent, well designed, et al, though not
necessarily on the cutting edge of radical feminist
thinking. All should do very well. Avail BP, Inland, and
direct, For direct orders, the minimum is 36 units,
assorted, with a minimum of 6 per title. 58% discount for
non-returnable. 50% returnable (up to 20% of order.) Bo-
Tree Productions, 1137 San Antonio Road, Suite E, Palo Alto,
Ca. 94303. Toll free: 800-421-9448 (In California 415-967-
1817).
The Emily Dickinson Book of Days. "From the great
corpus of Emily Dickinson's poetry we have chosen a poem for
each weak of the year -- a poem appropriate to its time, a
poem to lift one's spirits or set one ruminating. Each poem
is enclosed in a graceful line drawing by Donald Lynch. The
calendar, a spiral-bound desk diary with a new spread for
each week, is printed in deep blue and black on a heavy snow
white stock." 5 1/2" by 8 1/2" $9.95. Cahill and Company.
145 Palisade St., Dobbs Ferry, NY 10522. Distributed by
Inland.
Avail. BP, women's music distributors or direct. And last but hardly least: Everywoman's Almanac 1985
Syracuse Cultural Workers Project also has some wonderful THE classic of classics of feminist calendars. It's both an
cards and posters, including the very popular multi-cultural appointment calendar and a handbook. This year's edition
International Women's Day poster and a Seneca Women's Peace focuses on women's interest and activism against the nuclear
Encampment poster, so you might want to write for their threat. Monthly interviews explore many of the questions
catalogue even if you get the calendars at your handiest raised. Artists and scientists present their positions,
distributor. Box 5357, Syracuse, NY 13217. teenagers their feelings, a Hiroshima victim and a woman
The War Resisters League Peace Calendar and Appointment involved in the peace movement provide a historical
Book: How Shall We Live Together? features work by Susan perspective. Other interviews discuss nuclear technology,
Griffin, Chief Seattlė, Linda Hogan & Grace Paley. 5 1/4" x civil disobedience and women's activism. $7.95. Sturdy
8 1/4", a page a week for jotting down appointments, etc. binding survives the year in backpacks, jean pockets, purses
They do have bookstore rates but didn't send them. $6.00 @, and what-all as it goes everywhere with it's owner. The
War Resisters League, 339 Lafayette St., NYC 10012. Women's Press, 16 Baldwin St., Toronto. M5T IL2. In the USA
order from BP and Inland.
Bo-Tree Rides Again! with their In Praise of Women
Artists wall calendar $7.95 (which includes Karen Sjðholm's 1985!
Woman Secrets painting) and their small, spiral bound date-
book Contemporary Women Artists, $.6.95. They also have one
called A Woman's Daybook that I haven't yet seen. It will
November Volume 7 Number 4
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:36:30 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
a UNIVERSIT Y PRESSES Study in Male Ideology which points out that one can think
— A VI of Orwell as decent, fair-minded and honest only if one
ignores his proccupation with male power, traditional gender
roles and his consistently denigrating portrayal of women,
his attitude toward the working class, his frequent recourse
The Land Before Her: Fantasy and Experience of the to masculine in it ihatioins r ittesr,eatment of sexuality, }t,
American Frontiers, 1690-1860, Annette Kolodny. University his homophobia and anti-feminism. Thank-you! $14.95 paper, !j
of North Carolina, $9.95 paper, $20.00 cloth. Given that $30.00 cloth. l,
there was l itwtloe m pleance finor the myth of the Japanese Women, Takie Sugiyama Lebra. Universityof
tw he es t e fr ri on ng t i em r a l te o, K dio sl co od vn ey r e hx oa wm i wne os m et nh e c ow no sm tre un c's t e dw r ti hti en irg s o nab eoutt H lea nw ga ti hi. y $ f1 i8 e. l9 d5 w oc rlo kt h a. n dA ew xe ha al ut sh t i vo ef id na tt ea r v g iea wth s e r wed it h d u wri on mg en of l
mythology. Says Kolodny in her introduction: "For myself, I varying ages in contemporary Japan. "Lebra concludes that
have long ceased to lament the absence of adventurous con- Japanese wives, who are in charge of all household
quest in women's fantasies before 1860 and have come now to decisions, including financial ones, enjoy an authority and
regret men's incapacity to fantasize tending the garden. autonomy, and therefore fulfillment, not experienced by
For, given the choice, I would have had women's fantasies American career women." Also from U. of Hawaii: Notable
take the nation west rather than the psychosexual dramas of Women of Hawaii, ed Barbara Bennett Peterson. $27.50 cloth.
men intent on possessing a virgin continent. In the women's
nfa on t t a ps rie is v, a t ia zt e d l e a es rt o, t ict h e m ag sa tr ed ryen ." i Lm op ol ki se d g oh oo dm !e and community, xo H P U BFL I SkH E RsSE R ÊOWF w
pinl. sieNnS Elsi iI
Zil;
Pleasures: Women Write Erotica, Lonnie Barbach,.
Creating Rosie the Riveter:Class, Gender and Propaganda Doubleday, cloth $14.95. Barbach, you may recall, wrote For l
during World War II, Maureen Honey. University of Yourself: The Fulfillment of Female Sexuality, one of the
Massachusetts Press. $20.00 cloth. How did the strong, best books on the whole sexuality shelf. This is her
competent image of Rosie the Riveter become transformed into response to the question "Why is there so little erotica
the childlike, naive, self-abnegating women of post-WW I!l, written to appeal to women's desires?" Barbach has
ushering in one of the most reactionary periods for women in collected 31 stories, a few of which I've seen from the pens
modern American history? This book looks at the federal of Tee Corinne, Susan Griffin, Signe Hammer, Deena Metzger,
government's propaganda campaigns both during and after the and others. A daring, exciting, and long overdue first.
war as expressed in middle class Saturday Evening Post and May become a cult book as feminist readers dive into the
the most popular confessional magazine aimed at working- sexual fantasies/erotica of their favorite writers? Already
class women True Story to document the creation and in its second printing. (gee whiz, do you think that if
destruction of operating and functional images of women. book sales prove that there's a market for decent erotica
I've been waiting for this explanation for a very long time. that more will be published?!!? I mean, what a really
Also from U. of Mass, and perhaps the book we needed at the radical notion... That women want to read woman-based
beginning of the year when 1984 was in the windows of every erotica. I! mean, I think these people might be onto
bookstore in town is Daphne Patai's The Orwell Mystique: A sarething!)
The Land Before Her
Volume 7 Number 4 November 1984
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:36:30 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsWomen and Words: les femmes et les mots: An Anthology are loved, have in our lives. She is the woman you trust
of Canadian Women's Writing, edited by the Women & Words with your story as it is happening to you; she is the woman
Committee. llarbour Publishing (PO Box 219, Madeira Park, BC, from whom you hide nothing. She is on your side. If you
Canada VON 20.) $9.95 paper. In June of 1984, 800 women fall, she is the one to take the massage to your mother and
from across Canada -- writers, editors, critics, publishers, your children. It will be the right one. Or, as Janie says
feminist bookstore workers, librarians -- and everyone with to Pheoby (in Their Eyes Were Watching God), 'You can tell
a passion for women's writing -- gathered in Vancouver for 'em what Ah say if you wants to. Dats just de same as me
the first national Women And Words/Les Femmes et Les Mots 'cause mah tongue is in mah friend's mouf.' " And what a
collection of stories this makes! FBN is several hours late
impact of FBN. And I think probably on every woman present. to the printers because once I opened it, I couldn't put it
It was awesome. In the months preceding the conference, down. I "one-more-story-ed it right through dinner. The
stories revolve around the struggles and foibles of Black
is finally available. It include work by well-known writers women and men in a small town community. Cooper is a
Marian Engel, Nicole Brossard, Jane Rule, and Louky playwright with 17 plays to her credit, many of which have
Bersianik as well as work from many newer writers. Itis a
book that strives to be representative of all the women
writing in Canada today and so includes a very diverse
collection of cultural, linguistic, educational,
geographical and racial backgrounds. 1-4 books, 35%, 5-49
40%, 50+42%, etc. library discount is 10%. Harbour also
publishes Ann Cameron's (Daughters of Copper Woman and The
Journey) poetry collection Earth Witch. $5.95, which you may
want to pick up at the same time,
F
Cr a PCLG,LAE
A Piece of Mine, Short Stories by J. California Cooper.
Forward by Alice Walker. Wild Tress Press (PO Box 378,
Navarro, CA 95463.) $7.95 paper. This is the first book
from Wild Trees. In the forward, Walker writes of "She-Who-
Listens-to-Other-Women in literature and life and about what
listening means.... Cooper creates vividly the voice of the
sister-witness that all of us, if we are lucky, and if we
Volume 7 Number 4
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:36:30 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
been produced and perfonned on the stage, public television,
radio and college campuses. : In 1978 she was named Black harmonious relationships. The emphasis is on revaluing the
Playwright of the Year for her play, "Strangers". This is feminine principle and re-assessing the nature of female
her first collection of short stories. And the cover of the authority, in individual attitudes, in relationships and on
book is perfect. If there's an award anywhere for graphic a broader, collective level. 40% to bookstores, no minimum.
brilliance on the part of first-time publishers, it belongs 10% to libraries.
to Wild Trees! $7.95 paper, and available now. Order your Cry Amandla!: South African Women and the Question of
first copies from Wild Trees and pick up some of their cards Power, June Goodwin. Africana Publishing Company (a
and posters while you're at it. Assume standard discount. division of Holmes and Meier, IUB Building, 30 Irving Place,
Wild Trees Press, PO Box 378, Navarro, CA 95463. NY, NY 10003.) "A unique look at apartheid, in
conversations with black and white South African women
7 across the political and social spectrum about the thing
LI that matters most in this torn nation: White domination of
the majority blacks, and the blacks' cry for 'Amandla!'
Rainbow Roun Mah Shoulder, Linda Brown Bragg. Carolina (power). From the most right-wing of Afrikaners, who
Wren Press (300 Barclay Road, Chapel Hill, NC 27514.) $6.00 believes apartheid is God's will, to a black revolutionary
paper. "This novel, the odyssey of a Black woman healer, and friend of Steve Biko, who details her detentions,
won the Carolina Wren/North Carolina Cultural Arts Coalition torture, and changing political consciousness, Cry Amandla!
award for best booklength manuscript by a minority writer in captures the feeling, and the unfeeling, heart of South
North Carolina. The heroine of Rainbow, Rebecca Florice, Africa."
takes us with her through her life in a way that evokes
subtly, yet both powerfully and bearably, all that the black S
part of our nation has lived through, mostly in silence. tV
Bragg writes out of the tradition of Zora Neale Hurston,
leaving no stone of real human experience untouched; none Women & Taxes, Lois Leynse and Dennis Kamensky.
unenlightened. As a result, Rainbow, does much more than Winning Publications (6825 Amour Drive, Oakland, CA 94611.)
add to our 'up close' understanding of the 'Black $5.95 paper. A basic common-sense approach to taxes that
experience.' It deepens our awareness of what it is to be covers the basic ways to save money on taxes, emphasizes the
human." Discount information not sent. Assume standard tax advantages of women setting up our own businesses and
bookstore, as Carolina Wren has been publishing for quite a buying real estate, and also gives an over-all view and
wile. perspective on the IRS and income taxes. Stresses that the
Hags and Heroes: A Feminist Approach to Jungian primary purpose of the IRS is to stimulate the economy, and
Psychotherapy with Couples, Polly Young-Eisendrath. Inner that the IRS rewards risk taking and penalizes the cautious,
City Books (Box 1271, Station Q, Toronto, Canada MAT 2P4.) conservative approach to money that most women take. Will
$14.00 paper. "Why do relationships fail? Why do partners probably be useful to most women with incomes over $15,000.
once so comfortable with each other often wind up at odds? Wish there was a sticker that could be attached saying "Save
What effect do traditional attitudes toward woman have on some money on your taxes and put it in your movement."
marriage? Are lasting, long-term relationships between men Dist: BP, Inland, The Distributors.
and women even posáśible? The focus of this book is on The Two of Us: Affirming, Celebrating and Symbolizing
November 1984
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:36:30 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
Gay and Lesbian Relationships, Larry J. Uhrig. Alyson Press,
(40 Plympton St., Boston, MA 02118) $6.95 paper. One thing
I always like about Alyson Press is the diversity of work
they publish. If there could be a basic, practical,
essentially feminist, traditional book on the subject of gay
and lesbian relationships and marriages, this book, written
by an MOC clergyman, would be it. It will probably provoke
many a knee-jerk reaction from lesbian feminists who have
had it up to here with the patriarchal crap surrounding the
very idea of marriage, and will probably walk quietly off
the lesbian relationships shelf. Because it is a basic,
practical book on gåy and lesbian relationships, albeit
fairly Christian based, where nothing else exists. BP,
Inland.
8 Sudie Rakusin/Goddesses and Amazons
CZIG
Mermaids in the Basement:Poems for Women, Carolyn
Kizer. Copper Canyon Press (PO Box 271, Port Townsend, WA
98368.) $7.00 paper, $14.00 cloth. "Carolyn Kizer has been You Have No Country!: Workers' Struggle Against War,
an example and a light for poets; her work is luminous and collected writings of Mary E. Marcy, a leading figure in the
shimmering with strength and surety. Especially important Left Wing of the Socialist Party during WWI. Marcy was
for women, Kizer displayed the energy and intelligence of a managing editor of the Internationalist Socialist Review,
feminist long before it became fashionable. Through her the most popular and influential revolutionary journal of
wuorkr, ogft e an ne dtn o u fchtue nd d b a y m P ean nr t o ar lei e n cvt oal n i cinoef rlu nue .n c se t, o o n te h is senses an pth ene e tp re ar ti io nd g. aC no all le yc st ie s d o fh e r te h e a r se o c ia ar lt /i ec cl oe ns o mde it ca i l ci an ug s e sM a or fc y w's ar.
publication, Kizer's work has been unavailable for some Largely because of the articles in this book, the magazine
time." "I'm so happy to have Carolyn Kizer's poems for was suppressed by the US government in 1918. Charles H.
women. My women's studies students have lived with illegal Kerr Publishing, 1740 Greenleaf Ave, #7, Chicago, IL 60626.
xeroxed copies long enough. This is a book we can teach $4.50 paper, $14.94 cloth.
Inland.
Pleasure and Danger: Exploring Female Sexuality, edited
by Carole S. Vance. Routledge & Kegan Paul. $11.95 paper,
Volume 7
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:36:30 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms$25.00 cloth. This book brings together papers and talks will have never lived without these concepts, even as there
given at the controversial conference "Toward a Politics of are now feminists who can't imagine a past and a present not
Sexuality" held at Barnard College in 1982, that set of a filled with Amazons and Goddesses. Grahn has blown the
set of controversies, articles, et al, in our serene and collective consciousness more than once In the past, with
homogeneous community, as you may well recall. Says RKP: work like The Psychoanalysis of Edward the Dyke and The
"This book goes to the heard of the matter: sexuality is at
once the site of women's pleasure and exploration as well as this one. If history has any justice, Grahn will be
oppression and fear. Pleasure and Danger unreservedly remembered as "Another Mother of Us All". Beacon Press is
presents a spectrum of feminist views which have tended to to be commended for publishing this work. Rumor has it that
be glossed over by the media and legal community." (And Beacon is considering publishing a series of experimental
us?) I liked Barbara Ehrenreich's comment: "Pleasure and feminist fiction, including novels by Judy Grahn, Monique
Danger is a brave and challenging book in the best tradition Wittig, and I certainly hope they do it.
of feminist exploration, it invites the reader to her own
discoveries." And while you're ordering, pick up a copy of
Face Value: The Politics of Beauty, by Robin Lakoff and
Raquel Scherr. $25.00, cloth.
And last, but not least, I somehow managed to let the
last issue slip by without even a mention of Judy Grahn's
Another Mother Tongue, and Mary Daly's Pure Lust, both of
which you are no doubt are already stocking, selling,
promoting, recommending, et al. Daly is Daly is Daly, which
is enough said at this late date. Grahn's book, on the
other hand, I can't resist commenting on. I think that it
is one of the books of the decade. It's impact is going to
be felt with a power that is matched only by the publication
of The First Sex on the book-scarce era of pre-feminist
scholarship. As The First Sex raised a storm of
controversy, and overthrew (forever?) all the old concepts
of women's status during the past of this planet, so will
Another Mother Tongue redefine what it means to be gay and
lesbian and what our roles and functions actually are in the
whole of civilization. Ten years from now, perhaps sooner,
there will be a generation of gay and lesbian people who
43
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:36:30 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThis content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:36:30 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThis content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:36:30 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist
Bookstore
PO. Box 882554, San Francisco, California 94188
CWSY4S| …
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:36:30 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms