Sepiembsri988 _ Volume! Number S
SE Fenna. Serer al Am a
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms| INLAND IS PLEASED TO ANNOUNCE...
women's books from women's presses from one source
if you haven't received our special catalog, call us at once!
and
(England!)
we are now the U.S. distributor for The Women's Press, Ltd.
all in-print titles are now in stock and available; new titles will be
oArdrerr tiovdaiyng soon: =w ere ople RSB Dee yor
we are now trade distributor for Sara Steele's Steeleworks: we
have her complete line of products available at 50% discount
Call our order department toll-free 800/243-0138 (continental US) M
from Canada or Connecticut, call collect (203) 468-0589
Inland carries more women's books (and magazines, tapes, and
calendars...) than anyone - if you haven't tried us, call today
Inland Book Company, 254 Bradley St., East Haven, CT 06512
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termso o
o o
o o
o e oo The Feminist Bookstore News
NOTES "2 COMPUTER TABLE
A funny thing happened on the way to the | end of the evening, there were a number of
` printer.... Paste-up -- that rather complicated rumors flying about to the effect that the
process of assembling all the written (typed, Fourth Women-In-Print Conference would be held
formatted, "typeset") words into a coherent in Minneapolis in 1989 and that there would be a
arrangement of sections, articles, columns.... meeting to discuss it in detail in Minneapolis
As paste-up progressed it became clear that we at NWSA.... (There were also rumors, by the end
were going to have a lot of pages. Sixty, eighty of the evening that one Carol Seajay was moving
ninety, one hundred, one hundred ten.... and to Minneapolis for six months to help with the
more. Far more pages than could possibly fit in organizing, but that, unfortunately, turned out
one issue. (No wonder it took so long to get not to be true.) t
this issue together!) So in a moment of clarity `
w Sie d edi lv inid eed s t ih se s u is es u e a n in dt o t t hw eo i Ss esu pe ts: e mth be e S ru m im sse ur e. If all A couple dozen us of did meet in Min-
g thoe es m w ae tl l t hat e t sh ame ep r ti in mte er . you'll receive both of n ne eap ao pl ois l, i sa n d t h a oll u gof h tu s i w t h o w d oi ud ln d't l biv ee i an gM rin e- at idea to
have the next WIP conference there. It's time to
meet in the midwest again, there's an essential
ABA/Montreal/NWSA -- it seemed that there political vitality in Minneapolis that would
was hardly a chance to check in at the office make for an excellent and very responsible con-
between trips. ABA was very big this year -- it | ference, and Minneapolis would be handy for
always is when it's in California. The Third In- Canadians to come, maybe in the fall when the
ternational Feminist Book Fair in Montreal had | Weather would be good (it was 100+ degrees in
even more women and publishers from more differ-
ent countries than either of the previous fairs
and was very exciting. You go to these events
with some agendas and ideas of what will happen,
and then there's everything else that comes
along.... Late one evening when we-who-were- e
wexhhilieb ietvoerrsy o nwee reels e d uwtaisf uatll y t h es t aefvefniningg 's o uevre n bt,o oCtah s1 nc
Marj Snyder (Womyn's Braille Press) and Nett
Hart (Word Weavers and Maize) and I| fell into a
conversation about "The next Women in Print
Conference...." (OK, so we weren't exactly staf- Next Issue:
fing our booths, except for Nett who was staf-
fing L'Essentielle's booth and actually selling In Production
books to the few women wandering the exhibit
hall. We were wandering about talking to the
other exhibitors -- but Hey! that's the point of November Issue:
going, anyway.) So there we were, hanging out,
and somehow this idea of having the next WIP October 15
Conference in Minneapolis came up, and by the
Volume 11 Number 3 1 September 1988
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
the exhibit hall).... The women who actually of comp time to balance out the overtime from
live in Minneapolis (to whom the bulk of the producing issues while getting ready for the
organizing would fall) tentatively agreed that spring conferences. We'll be producing this
it would be a good idea and decided to meet with issue the old hand-paste-up way, but at least
the rest of the women who would likely work on part of the next one should come out on the’
organizing in July or August. Watch for the desktop publishing system!
outcome of that meeting in the next FBN! And, in
the meantime, it would be a great idea to call One of the many results of the Montreal
all the WiIP-ers you know in Minneapolis to en- Feminist Bookfair is "Canadian Content", a new
courage them to take on organizing Women In column in FBN by/for Canadian Feminist Book-
Print #4. stores. The first column is being prepared by
Donna Murray, an ex-staffer at Everywoman's
l suppose it would have been nice to come Books in Victoria. The original plan was that
home to a quiet office to write up all the con- the column would rotate among the Canadian
ferences and put together the sidelines issue... stores with a different store doing each issue,
but a number of much more exciting things hap- but no rotation has been arranged yet, and Donna
pened instead: | had a chance to move into a has offered to do the next few issues. Send
bigger, nicer apartment at a reasonable rent cards, letters and comments directly to Donna.
' oh s At tF( p nh h ar B lav l e rNa c ee Mer ' e fss e o a t t a rru hto n k id f e m di ei f an o tbi e l c a oa s e y i u S n tS t- a f rot sa e o eu 1 wn $ e t4 1m t t t 0 . h h u lt / uF a ce m #x bh r S ul 7o sta e r ntr n s i u te |p e ‘u hc de .sa pt i ci o s e - m c v a - l wo oa t l c o r l) ha i e t kin c hw eta h te on h r a- ad g k t- n ii rm v s eie wod n fes ) r , ei , i d w u g ( wss e er t ro e o s aoa rm r to b m ea oo o, g r u v e p. te t aw d o yih ngich left Tt t Ai (Bn i ar no ko on i s ex tt at s aeh lo l i n l o s , Mf)W n e c i eme c Cs d o ts li i hlu en ta l le eel oi ls ! sc r a o tt n G i C , v o a w a be f y n o s e a to l mdc L ak M fo i aseam fm e n m n ece b r'b so d J e l aa ur ao L tm n i Rn ti i n en tu i s r him S it a ene i ti nb a a g u ge t W' r sr ee t e s r oh , B mo i ca s f o on a eo l n k ui n s 'N m si se n uew R ntw e Ree ,, p er c vn oW ao J ira nl ea t-u o d wnm r edn sists
of Books and long-time worker in mainstream
publishing, joins Sandi Torkildson in "On Pub-
Just in time, too! In that brief moment lishers’ Row". Forthcoming columns: The women at
between deciding to move and actually moving, we Ariel Books, Margo Dunn and Donna Kaye, in Van-
received a letter from the Chicago Resource couver will be doing a column on Canadian femi-
Center saying that they had decided to fund our nist fiction and non-fiction starting this fall,
grant proposal for a laser printer and IBM-com- and Deb Morris, the manager of Lammas second
patible computer! So, now that we have a place store in DC, will be doing a column on Third
to put this soon-to-be wondrous desktop publish- World women's publishing and writing.
ing system, and have the money to buy it, we're Articles wanted; Librarians would like an
shopping to see what's currently available (the article (or interview) on buying problems (and
computer universe having turned over a time or solutions): Compendium (London) writes that they
two since we did the research to write the do very well there with U.S. imports and would
grant) and looking for the best local buys... like more info on good fiction reads and thrill-
(As if writing up three major còónferences, mov- ers: Food for Thought, the bookstore on the
North Dakota/Minnesota border would like a se-
us busy enough.) ries of the "Here's a problem and how we solved
The letter from CRC was immediately fol- it" genre, including one on doing book programs
l fo uw ned d b y a a p ale rt tte r o f fr o m th eO p e "n H M owea d o tw os o of pfe er nin g a t o feminist a Kn ad la m li at ze or oa r y w o ulu ldn c h lie ko en s : a n P a an rd to icr la e B oo no k ss et lo lir ne g i n al-
b wo ho ok s t co or ue ld b hoo ek lp/ l e ft u." n d ( A tn hy eo n re e s tw , h o p l ek asn eo w gs i v ea n y uo s n e a t ye or un 'ra et i v ie n t k erid ess t' e db o o ink s w t ro i t it nr gad i at nio yn a ol f p a tr he en t as b. o I vf e
call!) (or any others) or would like to be interviewed
So we're up to our ears with projects, as about any of the above, please give us a call.
usual. This issue gets to you a bit later than FBN now offers ghost-writing services as well!
we'd scheduled, due to the moving, the wonderful Yours in spreading the words,
distraction of computer shopping, and the taking Carol Seajay
Volume 11 Number 3
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
CONTENTS
FBN
itor & Publisher DEPARTMENTS
Carol Seajay A Bn en so tu sn ec le lm ee rn st s 4 2 03
Art CLlaesstiftieedr sA d s 5 88
Mary Collins
Columnists
Art Books Tee Corinne Notes From The Computer Table 1
GC Ca h an yila dd r Mi ea en n n 's 's C o B Ln o it o te k en rst ature JD K ao T nn e n H a o T m rM oiu xnr eg lr lay TSu Thb es yc rr i Wp it ei no vtn TI in hf aato -r Am - Wati a3o yn 3 35 78
International Books Joni Seager
Mainstream Publishers Sandi Torkildson Writing Wanted 39
Mainstream Publishers Anita McClellan
Mysteries Karen Axness
Science Fiction Susanna Sturgis ARTICLES
YU oun ni gv e Ar ds uit lty B oP okr se s Cs h rK istr ii ns e JH eo no kiv ne sr AC Baonoksaeldleri'as nRe p orCt ofrnomt eMnonttr ea l 1 191
Office Manager New (Zealand) Women's Press 25
Lorena Boswell NSewh Zoearlantd FeSmtinoistr Bioeoksst o re8s 29
Pat Kelso ABA Small Store Task Force
American Book Awards/20 Selected Titles
Lorena Boswell Censorship at the Borders
Women's Press Signs with Inland 13
The Feminist Bookstore News
456 14th Street #6 Naiad at Ingram
PO Box 882554 Inland's Women's Press Catalog
San Francisco CA 94188 "No Frills" Books from Naiad
415-626-1556 Editorial and Commentary
ISSN: 0741-6555 TAHE r B t K Books 45
From Our Own Presses 59
TvreeHhaE ci hc leFesE M f3oI 5Nr0 I S tfThe em B iOinnO ifsKotS r TmaO naR dl E n f eeNtmEwW ionriS sk t ii nso cf l t i h nfe ee dm c io bnm oisomtk su tbn ooc roa ekt sis ot noinsr e st.h eF B UN.S. From The Small Presses 67
aAsbtn iuubdsdl t i ioreC pasal h ni a ita l,eed as aNc h e ca ew os rm s ,w pZ ree bial sl ol eao n ka ds t , h rf e eI e vn m rideeiiwmna i e as ra it snn , dd b e po rJo u k ba ops lfieas lnhl e. te r hr sL es i b i sanr una bd rE si a c nnfrg eisl bm,a en riwd ns, .io sm tEeunr'ospe, G I Mna ty e r y nM a se tn i to's n e a rlL i it We er o sa mt u e r ne 5 4 15 25
Poetry : 53
TyLH eetaE tr e rFisnE ,M aJIN ratnI iS cuT lae r syB , ,O nO MeK waSrsT cO hiR t, eE m M sNa yE a,W n dSJ u ailsyn ,n p o uSueb npl citeseh mme edbn et rs s,i x s ah nt odi um l deNs o b va eember. Publishers' Row 81
received the fifteenth of the month preceeding publication. Science Fiction 47
Signed articles and letters are the responsibility of the authors. Short Raves 36
S+U$6B/SyCrR I PfTorIO NCSa n aadriea n $ 5 p0o sptaegr e ,y eaanrd/ s i$x1 3 i4srs u efso.r $ 9o5v e rfsoera s t pwoos t aygeea.rs.
University Presses 77
3 September 1988
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
Naiad Press Titles Now at Ingram!
Ingram now carries 28 Naiad Press titles in Superstock warehouse in addition to the
two titles it currently e in open stock at all three warehouse locations (Memory
tBwoaor d o t ahnedr DNeasieadrt t oitfl e st,h eT hHe e aLrotv).e e o fh aGs o podr e vWiooumsleyn c aanrrdi e dL e sabnidan s uNcucnesss.fully sold
: Klaich Heavy F al l GTitleis l Tto B e $Av8aila.b9le 5in S up0ers-to9ck:41483-25-8
aiad Lattimore High Contrast $8.95 0-941483-17-7
McConnell Double Daughter $8.95 0-941483-26-6
More October Obsession $8.95 0-941483-18-5
ress Ohio The Finer Grain $8.95 0-941483-11-8
P.O. BOX 10543
OUS Naiad Titles Now Available in Supersotck:
Bright Sunday's Child $8.95 0-941483-12-6
In f f uNt ul r ed Daao u gFlaosr rTehset AAlwmayat eAunro n yCmitoyu s $ B7e.a9s5t $08-.9953 0 00-4944-154853--X04-5
a Forrest Emergence of Green $8.95 0-930044-69-X
Press Titles will be Forrest Curious Wine $8.95 0-930044-43-6
avaa bill e b ilr ofm I n1 n F- o rFroersrte sDt a uDgrhetaemrss aonfd a S wCoorradls D$a8m.9 5 $ 70.-9954 1 04-8933-00034-74-50-9
R 3 Forrest Murder at the Nightwood Bar $8.95 0-930044-92-4
gram, in additon Gae Secrei in the Bird $8.95 0-941483-05-3
Inlan Hayes Yellowthroat $8.95 0-941483-10-X
to a d, Hull Last September $8.95 0-941483-09-6
B ookpeople, Kennedy Cherished Love $8.95 0-941483-08-8
A Lynch Dusty's Queen of Hearts Dinner $8.95 0-941483-01-0
Airlift, Benton Lynch Swashbuckler $8.95 0-930044-66-5
: Lynch Toothpick House $7.95 0-930044-45-2
Ross, Stilone, and McNab Lessons in Murder $8.95 0-941483-14-4
: i. Morgan The Price of Salt $8.95 0-930044-49-5
all Library Suppli Muller Parents Matter $9.95 0-930044-91-6
ers such as Baker Murphy Searching for Spring $8.95 0-941483-00-2
Murphy We Walk the Back of the Tiger $8.95 0-941483-13-4
and Taylor, Rule Against the Season $8.95 0-930044-48-7
Rule Desert of the Heart $7.95 0-930044-73-8
Coutts, Blackwell Rule Memory Board $8.95 0-941483-02-9
: Rule The Young in One Another's Arms $7.95 0-930044-53-3
No r1th :A m Veriocal,e V eOresl t Tehne ' sO th eBr a ySid e $ o8f . 9V5en u s0 $-89.945 1 04-984314-813-50-7-0X
Midwest Library, Weathers House at Pelham Falls $7.95 0-930044-79-7
etc. Weiss Before Stonewall $7.95 0-941483-20-7
September 1988 4 Volume 11 Number 3
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
Lioness Books from us and we have a new one of hers (le sens |
2224 J Street apparent) coming later this year. We publish
Sacramento, CA 95816 several of Daphne Marlatt's titles, including
her latest, a novel Ana Historic. We also have
Dear Carol and FBN, Betsy Warland's latest collection of poetry,
Just a quick note to send you our bestseller Serpent (W)rite, and it is selling like hot
lists and our staff favorite lists. l've in- cakes. Also, we publish Gail Scott's books:
cluded May and June. Spare Parts and a new novel, Heroine.
It was good to see you at ABA. I felt ex- Thank you for your continuing interest in
hilarated being around so many feminist book biz Coach House and please note that our books are
women. Thank you for organizing the feminist distributed in the U.S by both Inland and Small
booksellers' day. I| thought it was a tremendous Press Distribution.
Success. Sincerely,
T Lh ioe nr ee ss sa BC oo or kr sigan C Puar bo lil cy in st Guertin
Coach House Press FBN Moved!
401 (rear) Huron St.
Toronto Ontario
Canada M5S 2G5
Dear FBN,
I noticed in your February 1988 issue of New Street Address:
FBN in your special write up on Feminist Cana-
d si uan r p F ric isti eo )n it sh a t d iC so ta rch ib uHo tu es de P br yes s U(m nu ic vh e rt so i tm yy of To- 456 14th St. #6
ronto Press.
I would like to call this to your attention San Francisco, CA
as Coach House is (as far as | know) the last of
the small Canadian presses that still controls
its own distribution in. this country. Yes, it is 94103
true that just .about everyone else is distri-
buted by U of T, but we are not | am afraid. |
felt it important that | make mention of this as
we do publish -- at least -- four of the most Mailing address remains the same:
important feminist authors in Canada. Nicole PO Box 882554, San Francisco, CA 94188
Brossard's books in English translation come
Number 3 September 1988
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
FBN wishes to apologize for the confusion tell most parents that there's no single book
and any difficulty caused by our error. Thanks that will address their kids' questions. We all
for the clarification! need these books! A whole series that will deal
Carol Seajay with these issues at various levels of under-
standing for children of various ages.
Category Six Neil
1029 E. 11th Ave.
Denver CO 80218 Sounds like an excellent idea to me. Arlene
Orshan (until recently a co-owner of Giovanni's
Dear Carol/FBN, Room) never went to ABA without her list of
Several publishers are asking us as book- "Books that need to be brought back into print."
sellers what, of gay/lesbian/feminist interest, My own list would include The First Sex
should be reprinted. We told Plume/NAL "Fancy (Penguin), Vincent Varga's A Comfortable Corner
Dancer and Front Runner" and they did it! We've (1982/Avon), the one gay novel about a co- alco-
been badgering them to reprint The First Sex holic who finds some peace of mind while his
(Elizabeth Gould Davis) but "pressure" from lover does and doesn't come to grips with his
others might help. Could you run a column so- own distructive alcoholism; Natural Acts by
liciting ideas for reprints so that when the James Fritzhand (Signet/NAL) about two gay men
reps ask, we'll have (maybe) some consensus? who are trying to adopt an eleven-year-old girl
f fe oct r t h i P dae t er a h s sa in p cs f e oF pB ruN b l g ic s ao h yu el r /d s l er r su e bn p s i aa na r /n eo f t o ei uc me t i t s no c io sut tth i e n g b e of- oks to l 1me 9f 7ay 6t b e n i o n I vn e l t a (h P C oe pli a ur s ls a r bc ya Lr i be H r e a r rb s yey )l f , p o h L re tin rr d a ya id nCy gr i a n w alcfg oo hr d om l's -other; and
p suu bb mlis ih tt, e dF B iN de ac so u fl rd o mpr o Fv Bid Ne 's a r em adi en ri s- .forum with i ts im on si n f I r't d oh m e b e u ‘ t p hds eec la i l g re h e s tl tee ds b o fi ta on t h rc euo nm b oa om n kyu s tn oai rt n ey d s. . . . a -l -l as nu dgges-
o tu ht e b o n oM k esy x t fs ou rb s m t m eis pes n sio , n as n id .a e r .we ,: o mw liee fn e.h a W v ie se s e unn e eo e su d g h bb o ooc oo k km s si n f . og r Lesbian t ph uen b l it so h ese rn sd ! c Wlipp ei n g cs a n o f d t oh e is ta m e a s o f lf e tt to e rth s,e as a fea-
C a Wno edu p nl ge eos eo d di s ab a o so ekp re i r et sf h e ac ott f a e bdx oda orm kep s ss l e e fs oo rrf e a ga l a y lr ie f aa e nl l dy c o n lu ecs see brf in au nsl . ot ru r e a i rf e C ag re u oln lao ru ,gh lett e or ns g oc io nm g e c oin lu m at n . .t ..he same time,
parents, and for their kids. A series that deals
with coming-out and sexuality identification for
kids in many different family constellations:
two mothers, many mothers, two gay fathers, one
gay father, one lesbian mother and on and on.
The reality is that there are so many defini- Southern Sisters, Inc,
tions of family for our people that very few are 411 Morris Street
addressed in kids books. I know there are some, Durham NC 27701
but there are not enough. We are constantly
asked the following types of questions: "I'm a Hello FBN!
single mother (lesbian) with a six year old son. I've just devoured our first copy of FBN;
I need a book for him on having a gay mother." it's exactly what we've been needing for our
"Some of us in the gay fathers' group are going brand-new, not-even-open-yet feminist bookstore.
to come out to our teenagers. Do you have a book Your reviews are invaluable, telling us exactly
we can give them?" It breaks my heart to have to what we need to know to place our orders as well
September 1988 Volume 11
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
as make our selections, and the news and infor-
mation about other women's bookstores, publish- NEW FROM
ers, and distributors, is lifesaving. Thank you! NEW YORK UNIVERSITY PRESS
I wonder if you can answer a burning ques-
tion for us: does Women's Press, U.K., have a
United States distributor? How about an article
on tracking down the great English & Irish femi-
nist presses?
This is the fourth letter I've written to
addresses |'ve found in this issue, and I| have
eight more to go.... What would we do without
you?
Thanks again, and more power to you! Wish
us luck and a good coffee supply between now and
our opening, August 8th.
In sisterhood and gratitude,
Melody Ivins
Thanks! This is just what I always hope FBN
does for new stores!
The Women's Press, U.K., has just signed a
distribution contract with Inland. Calendars
should be on hand in September, with the books
arriving in September and October! Onlywomen and
Sheba Press books are available from both Inland
and Bookpeople. Pandora Press books are avail-
able in the U.S. from Allen and Unwin. The
Virago Modern Travellers Series is published
here by Beacon Press, and "the rest" of the
Viragos should begin to be available from Random
House this fall. Books from Irish feminist Attic
Press are at both Inland and Bookpeople.
Women's Community Press (Ireland) aren't
distributed in the U.S. Order them direct (44
East Essex St, Dublin 2) or from Turnaround, the
worker-owned cooperative distributing British
and Irish radical and independent publishers. KATHLEEN BARRY-
Turnaround does a catalog describing some of the
books, periodicals and publishers they stock.
(27 Horsell Rd., London N5 1XL.) You can order
almost anything that would sell in a London
bookstore in quantity from Pipeline, but they
don't do any kind of catalog, so you have to 66A fine, feminist biography... [A]
know what you want before you order.... Pipeline compelling and moving narrative.?”?
is an American bookseller's dream. London book- — Kirkus Reviews
sellers phone in their orders before noon and
the books are delivered by 4 pm. Daily! And no $27.95/25 photographs/416 pages
delivery charge, either. For us, though, it's
proforma and sea mail. Pipeline's address is 32 NEW YORK UNIVERSITY PRESS
tP hau atl S Jt .. , B L enon d So tn ar kE C i2 sA r e4 tL iB ri. n gG r aa np dev i wne il n ne ow s l o nh gas e r it Washington Square South, New York, NY 10003
be importing British books. -CS
Volume 11 Number 3 7 September 1988
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
Feminist Bookseller Appointed Feminist Book Fortnight
to ABA Task Force Twenty Selected Titles
Karen Axness, FBN's Mysteries columnist, 1988
and A Room of One's Own (Madison WI) collective FICTION
member, and winner of the 1988 Haslam scholar- Keeping the Faith, Carol Clewlow, Faber & Faber.
ship to the Congress of Young Booksellers has Angel, Merle Collins, The Women's Press (will be
been asked by the ABA to serve on ABA's Smail published in the U.S. by Seal Press.)
Store Task Force. Topics to be discussed by the Stoner McTavish, Sarah Dreher, Pandora Press
Task Force will include net pricing and postage (U.S.: New Victoria).
y or ra o t u e ' wds. r ilI tif ek e y h o eKu ra r e ah n ta v Ae t o c Ro t om a okm me e n t oot f s t Ohor ne e 's T su a g s Okg w e s nFt ,oi o r n 3ces 1 , 7 t ch Waa lt l . C Bl eo lose v e dC ,Co am Trp o ola nin n i y e M: H oS ret a ro t ir soi one ns , ao n Cf d h a M C tto h ot r h i se &tr is n We a in nPd da ur k sD ,a u ( Ug V .h i Srt .:ae gr os, .
Johnson St., Madison WI 53703. Phone: 608-257- Knopf).
7888. This is the first time that the ABA has The B Wl ou me e n D 's o Pn rk ese sy . Fables, Suniti Namjoshi, The
i in nv it e ad n ya f Oem fi fn ii cst i a lb o o ck as pel ale cr i t t yo . w Aor Bk A w it ph a y A sB A travel and ST hin e y H L asie s N, o K a Pt le a c eP u il nli n Pg ae rr a, d iJ seo ,n a Nth aa wn a l C ea lp e S. aadawi,
transportation expenses for members of standing Methuen.
cami t tees. The Passion, Jeanette Winterson, Bloomsbury
(U.S.: Atlantic Monthly).
1988 American Book Awards
(U.S.:
The Before Columbus Foundation presentation
of their 1988 American Book Awards was one of
the highlights of the ABA. One had the sense
that every person of color at ABA and most of
the people committed to political and multi-
cultural publishing had gathered for the presen-
tation of the awards. That's an exaggeration,
but there was a definite ripple of "Oh yeah, I
remember...promoting books like these is why I'm
at ABA...." and one left renewed and ready to WOMEN'S STUDIES
face the floor again the next day. Intercourse, Andrea Dworkin, Arrow.
Four of the seventeen awards went to women: Charting the Journey: Writings by Black and
- Daisy Bates for The Long Shadow of Little Rock Third World Women, S. Grewal et al (eds),
(University of Arkansas Press); Toni Morrison Sheba Feminist Publishers.
for Beloved; Kesho Scott, Cherry Muhanji, and Mothers in the Fatherland, Claudia Koonz,
Egyirba High for Tight Spaces (Spinsters/Aunt Methuen.
Lute); and Opal Whiteley, presented by Benjamin Reproductive Technologies: Gender, Motherhood
Hoff for The Singing Creek Where the Willows and Medicine, Michelle Stanworth (ed),
Grow (Warner). Polity (U.S.: University of Minnesota).
w E
September 1988 Volume 11 Number 3
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
THE ARTS (including poetry)
Turning the Tables: Recipes & Reflections from
Women, Sue O'Sullivan (ed), Sheba Feminist THE BOOK OF SEEING
Publishers. WITH ONE’S OWN EYES
AB cIO roG sR s A tP hH eY W A aN teD r : A IU rT isO hB I WOG omRA enPH 's Y Lives in Brit- by Sharon Doubiago
ain, Mary Lennon, Mar ie McAdam and Joanne A moving collection of stories which chronicle the
O'Brien, Virago. social, political, and sexual evolutions of the past thirty
Lyn: A M aS dto dr ey n, o Af t tP icr o s Pt rit eu sst .ion, June Levine & Lyn years.
Makeba : B lM ooy m sS bt uo rr yy , ( UM .Si .r :i a m NA LM ).akeba with James Hal l, T“S hh ea yr o n sh oD wo u b ui sa g oo u’s r s est lvo er si e s i n a r we a yp so w wer ef u hl a va en nd 't s st er eo nn g i. n
fiction before.”
YOUNGER READERS -Alice Walker
Princess Smartypants, Babette Cole, Picture
Lions. ISBN 1-55597-101-6 Paper, $7.50
Annie on My Mind, Nancy Garden, Upstarts/Virago
(U.S.: Farrar, Straus & Giroux).
GRAYWOLF PRESS
Censorship: Canadian Customs Consor tdiisutrmibu t eBd o took t h eS atlreadse b&y Distribution
Canadian Customs continues to hold, if it
has not already destroyed, copies of On Our approval before ordering in quantity. The in-
B oha nack d lys a s n Ced n a n tO au dt tr io aa g n e s o t u bos rr W ie gso hm tie n n s t pah onat tg l G o ii spo v h a ton hnni ae's t R C ao a o n m Cad ana. a d T iah ne f i tna hm eJo u u s n l ee n g e 1 aw 9 l8 8 C , p l ra wu os i cle l e e2 n8 do, t i n w i gmh si pc rh o a v gb e ae c ita nhm see t a B t tmr hi oti ess p sh h e e rL ea s w i xof books:
c iG nou a r y Ct a n d aSe dec al x .a ..r . ed (p uei bgh lit s h m eo dn t h 1s 9 7ag 8o ) t ih sa t lT eh ge a l J o ty o o f distribute t M gh uer in de ee b te y hr o aM tt ic i t a c nn h to e v dWe al tas el sk b e y r T, h eP a h Ji ql o u yaA l i n t od y fr o g Gs; a a y yM me Sn ee xn ;L 's o Mv si een nxg
Loving Themselves, a photographic portfolio of
Censorship: Britain various types of men masturbating (its intended
use is therapeutic rather than masturbatory);
the rig hIn t L to on d do en f, e n G d a y b' os o kt sh e i t W io mr pd o rB to so k fs rh oo mp h Ga is o - lost a lin sd h e da bg yal l e Rr Oy B c a it na l o Ag m M ste en rd ai mn . Erotic Art, pub-
vanni's Room on the grounds that the books have
artistic, literary, scientific, educational, or Viking Announces Free Freight
any other merit. On May 12, 1988, a judicial VIKING PENGUIN ANNOUNCES FREE FREIGHT
review board upheld a magistrate's ruling that Viking Penguin has joined the ranks of the
imported books, unlike books produced in Brit- small (but growing) number of trade publishers
ain, cannot be defended with expert and literary offering free freight to bookstores. Viking
evidence. The case involves six books that were Penguin also announced a new discount schedule
seized at the time of Operation Tiger, the raid allowing retailers to combine orders for all
o tgn he erG sa y s ' eas i n zT d uh re ed W i r oo er fcd t o $an r 2d s 0 , o 0in 0n 0 t h Je w u h olyo rm t he 1s 9 o o8f f4 ,i t bs r o em os ka un sla t- i an ng d in b Po eo nk g u ia nn d ( V n ikon in- gb ,o o k Pe ni gte um ins , d Oi vst er ri lb ou okte , d L ib by r a rV yik i on fg
charges of criminal conspiracy. When the crimi- A Fm reer di eca r, i cS kte p h Wen a rG nr eee ,n e V P ir ke is ns, g M i Kch ea se tl r J eo l se p ah n, d Puffin).
n ba ol o c kh sa r g wes e rw ee r e r ed tro up rp ned e d i n t J ou n Ge i1 o9 v86 a, n nth ie 'ss e Rsi ox om, and oH rdi egU rh s,e r in d adisP dc ito iou nn t tSs o ta hr e e . 2 -a 4v a pi el ra cb e nl te a g e©f o pr oi n tlarger
British Customs invited Gay's the Word to re- value in free freight. Books will be shipped
import the books and to submit the books for
Number 3 v September 1988
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
“Theres more than anger, more
than sadness,more than terror.
There's hope: NM BUJea
=. SUY VÍVOr
“A ground-breaking book that will stand as a classic for many years to come.”
— Sandra Butler, author of The Conspiracy of Silence
1 Women who were sexually
abused as children now have
| an important new reason for
hope—a comprehensive, com-
passionate, inspiring new book
that provides clear explana-
| tions, practical suggestions, a
durage | map of the healing journey, and
many moving first-person
examples of the recovery proc-
ess drawn from interviews with
hundreds of survivors.
“This book advances the
empowerment of survivors
A Guide for another major step—from
breaking silence to sharing
Women Survivors recovery.”
—Judith Herman, M.D., author
of Child of Father— Daughter Incest
Sexual Abuse “Counselor Bass and survi-
vor Davis offer resources, prac-
tical advice, an d comEfort” —Ms.
$14.95 paperback © Now in its fourth printing. HARPER & ROW PUBLISHERS
September 1988 10 Volume 11 Number 3
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
By Laura Zimmerman & Kate Rushin cultures, class backgrounds, nationalities, and
New Words Bookstore/Cambridge politics work together? How do we confront and
talk about issues of exclusion, accessibility,
We're still sorting out the brochures and and tokenism?
catalogues we picked up at the Third Interna- But these concerns co-existed with the
tional Feminist Book Fair in June, and we steady excitement and joy of spending almost an
haven't stopped talking about the women we met entire week with feminists from Latin America,
and the ideas that were generated during that Africa, Europe, Asia, the Pacific, Canada, and
week in Montreal. For years, we'd heard stories the US. We welcomed the chance to meet with
about the First International Feminist Book Fair booksellers to talk about the practical details
in London in 1984 and the one in Oslo in 1986. of surviving as feminist bookstore workers in
This one in Montreal promised to include more our own communities and as part of an interna-
Third World countries, and also to emphasize tional movement. These talks about the nitty-
French-speaking Canadian feminism. The first two gritty subjects of finances, inventory, special
days were reserved for women in the book trade. events, the 'role' of the feminist bookseller
Six hundred women from 45 countries participated (entrepreneur or earth mother?) barely began
in workshops and panels on the subjects of book
and journal distribution, translation, pub-
lishing in Third World countries, promoting
lesbian writing, etc. For the next four days, rd
the Fair was open to the public for readings, International
workshops, exhibits and discussions on the theme
of "memory, power, and history." For the entire Feminist Bookfair
six days, 400 publishers from 55 countries dis-
played books, journals and flyers in 108 boths June 14-19, 1988
in the main exhibit hall.
Our expectations were incredibly high --
and to a large extent, they were met. There were before it was time to break for another workshop
problems, of course. The conference location at or event. A dialogue between new, small stores
the University of Montreal seemed to isolate it and larger, more 'established' ones got started
from the local non-university community. The but didn't have time to progress very far. A
number of booksellers and other participants proposal for a weekend retreat for North Ameri-
from outside North America was disappointingly can bookstores was enthusiastically received.
small. We know the conference planners and pub- (Stay tuned to FBN for more about this!)
lishers who rented display tables had hoped for We also heard Donna Fernandez' remarkable
a much larger attendance than the number of talk on the work of Streelekha, India's only
women who actually came. The relatively low feminist book place. Several of us met to begin
turn-out raised the larger questions that always figuring out concrete ways we could stay in
need to be asked when we talk about feminist touch and support Streelekha once the conference
organizing: How can women of different races, ended. The Toronto Women's Bookstore agreed to
Number 3 September 1988
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
rd
The human species... International
Feminist Bookfair
has been driving down June 14-19, 1988
the highway of life be a 'sister' North American bookstore. We
talked about other bookstores shipping second-
with one eye (the female h lea kn hd a ' sb o fo ek ms i nt io s t m le ibe rt a rt yh .e Do on ng no ai n g m en ne te iod ns e do f s pS et cr ie -e-
fic authors, publishers, and titles of books and
journals they'd like to get. We're keeping in
held firmly closed, contact with her and Celine Segune about this,
and we'll send the info on to FBN. (Contact us
directly, if you're interested.)
More good news from the conference is the
increased number of titles that eventually will
be distributed by Inland and Bookpeople. If the
details work out, we'll have access to pre-
viously unavailable publishers and writers in
India, South Africa, England, and elsewhere. We
haven't quite figured out where we'll find space
for all this new material, but we're working on
it. (How about a panel on interior design for
women's bookstores??)
One of the women in as much demand as
Inland's Mev Miller was our own Carol Seajay.
She presented talks on feminist bookselling,
says Elizabeth Dodson Gray. WITH BOTH EYES OPEN organized small meetings for us, staffed the. FBN
shares the wealth of new scholarship by and about display table, answered countless questions, and
women and asks if new visions which include the pwrobeab'llyl d ide vmoerre w okrk n beohwind-.t.h.e.- sc eLneZs th a&n KR
‘female eye’ make a difference in the way women and
men see themselves and live their lives.
Contributors include Elizabeth Dodson Gray, Sandra
G. Harding, Ann Sutherland Harris, Ann J. Lane, Linda
Majka, Julia Reichert, Rosemary Radfordd Ruether, and Late breaking good news: Due to higher than
the coeditors. budgeted book sales and cutting post-conference
expenses (like salaries for conference organiz-
WITH BOTH EYES OPEN: ers and office rent for the months it takes to
Seeing Beyond Gender 'close down' an international conference) the
Montreal Book Fair will report no deficit. All
Edited by Patricia Altenbernd Johnson further Third International Feminist Book Fair
and Janet Kalven correspondence should be addressed to 4037 St.
Paper $10.95 Andre, Montreal QUE H2L 3W2, Canada.
B A! bookstores or order from It looks like the next International Femi-
» THE PILGRIM PRESS nist Bookfair will be held in either India or
wW 132 West 31st Stre e:t . :N e ww oYmorke. n N Y i n10 0 0I1n dBairac e loinna. Tehaer ldyec is iSone p wtiellm bbe e mra.d e O by the
12 Volume 11 Number 3
September 1988
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
"Get thee to a distributor!"
Some of the best news in years: The Women's Meanwhile, none of anyone's efforts seemed
Press/UK has signed up for distribution with to move any mountains to get Women's Press
Inland Book Company. Their 1989 Women Artist's titles to a better distribution system until
calendar is already on the way and books should their U.S. distributor decided to stop distribu-
be arriving in September and October. Inland tion British published titles altogether, leav-
will carry all the titles for which Women's ing Women's Press temporarily without an Ameri-
Press has U.S. rights, backlist and frontlist. can distributor.
The only exceptions will be frontlist titles for
which Women's Press is still expecting to sell
U.S. rights to an American publisher.
There is a lot of history to this story!
Women's bookstores in North America have horren-
dous tales to tell of trying to stock British
feminist press titles: of former distributors
being perpetually out of stock on titles that
they supposedly carry, and on not stocking the
titles that feminist booksellers want most. One
of FBN's goals in attending the 1986 Interna- It would be hard to say that any of the
tional Feminist Book Fair in Oslo was to see U.S. feminist booksellers grieved the passing of
what could be done to improve the distribution that particular arrangement. But ordering books
of Virago and Women's Press books in the U.S. direct from London isn't exactly the easiest way
Not much could be done at the time, due to both to get books, either.
publishers' corporate structures. (Both publish- So at Montreal, it was no surprise to FBN
ers were then owned by larger book publishing to watch feminist booksellers line up at Women's
corporations that made distribution agreements Press' booth to ask, suggest, encourage, plead,
"in the best interest of the entire group of and/or recommend that Women's Press go with
publishers" which ignored the sales patterns Inland. I've heard that, by the end of the Book
of feminist books in the U.S. (Onlywomen Press Fair, some of the Women's Press staff were be-
and Sheba Press titles were being successfully ginning to think this was an organized plot.
distributed by Inland and Bookpeople at the But, no, it was just experienced and opinionated
time, as were Attic Press Books.) But, for- feminist booksellers knowing what works for dis-
tunately, times have a way of changing. tribution here, wanting the books, and making
has sin V cei r a sg uo c c eP er de es ds , inth e bn u y p inar gt to hf e m t sh ee l v eC sV B oC u t g or foup, t ah nei ar r cn hee id ss t i ck n o fw en m. i(A ns i s tif ban oy oo kne s e c lo leu rld s o r tg oa n i dze o anything
the group and into independence. Random House they don't already want to do!)
purchased the financially troubled CVBC in the Still, in that kind of corporate environ-
spring, while Virago was in the midst of their ment, convincing The Women's Press that the
negotiations, and honored the buyout process, easiest and most effective way to sell their
but gained U.S. distribution rights of Virago books in the U.S. is via Inland isn't the same
Press titles for the next three years, starting as convincing the corporate owners. So it was
in the fall of 1988. with great delight that we got the call at FBN
Volume 11 Number 3 13 September 1988
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
that Women's Press had signed wit" Inland. We people as well.) Meanwhile, Inland has exclusive
celebrated for days! distribution on the 1988 Artist Diary/Calendar,
Inland will probably have the books before w lah nic dh ' s m e sa tn as n t dh ae ry d'll b ce a l ef nul dly a r r e t pu orn lia cb yle, . p Ter h eI n - backstock
y lo isu t h a av ne d c a t bal ao cg ks l id se tsc r i tb ii tn lg e st ,h e s ocu r r be en t sf ur ron et - to ask sf hr oo um ld W bo em ae vn a' is l a bP lr ee s s a' t p Ir ne lv anio du s in U . eS a. r ld yi s t Sr ei pb tu et mor -
w inh a tt h's e c wom ese t e rin n w pah re tn o y f o u t h c ea l cl o uIn nl ta rn yd . w B ho oo k dse ol nle 'trs b ie nr g. B o inok s O s ch tip op bed e r f ..r .o jum s t E n g inla n d t i s mho eu l d f ob re ar mri av s- sive pre-
o gr id ver e w Ie ne lk aly n d f r o sm om In el a n ed x tw ri all p cr ao lb la sb l y t o w a cn ht e t co k for the h 1o 0li td hay ad nis npl ia vys e r c se ale rb ’r a t ai nng d T th he e W iro m nen e's w P r ie mss' proved U.S.
bn oe ow k s t i wtl ie ls l a es v e nth tuey al l ya r r miv ae k. e ( W thi et ih r a wn ay y l tu oc k , B o t oh ke - distribution.
Ingram to Distribute 33 Naiad Titles
Beginning in August, Ingram added 28 Naiad to bring other feminist presses into Ingram, ana
Press titles to Ingram's "Superstock Warehouse". eventually, open the doors to full open ware-
Five of Naiad's fall titles are also scheduled housing.
to be added to Superstock. Ingram currently The availability of Naiad titles via Ingram
carries Desert of the Heart and Memory Board in Superstock will likely have little direct impact
open stock at all three warehouses and has pre- on feminist bookstores. (Why order from a dis-
viously stocked The Love of Good Women and Les- tributor who will delay in shipping your books,
bian Nuns in open stock. Titles carried in open when you can order from Bookpeople and Inland
stock at all warehouses are available for imme- for immediate shipping from a distributor who
diate shipment. Titles in Superstock are ware- also stocks the entire list and is committed to
housed at only one location and are shipped to feminist bookselling and publishing?) It will be
the other warehouses when they are ordered by a important to the many bookstores and libraries
bookstore, and then shipped to the ordering in the U.S. who have a limited list of vendors
bookstore. from whom they may purchase and will mean that
Traditionally, Ingram has been very reti- more of the feminist press titles will be avail-
cent to stock small, and especially feminist able in those chain stores that have buyers who
small press titles. Successful sales of Naiad's would like to stock feminist press titles but
titles through the Superstock program will help aren't able to order from small press distribu-
tors.
Inland's Women's Books Catalog
Meanwhile, Inland, as always, is creating catalog is an experiment with an eye to increas-
more ways to promote books. Inland's latest ing promotion and distribution of feminist books
venture has the physical form of a special cata- to both general independent bookstores as well
log featuring 60 women's titles from 26 women- as to Dalton and Walden bookstores. It will be
run publishers. The catalog represents many mailed to 7000-8000 bookstores including all of
months of discussion among the feminist publish- Inland's regular customers, A sales rep will
ers and between Inland and the publishers. The take the catalog to Dalton's and Walden's cen-
September 1988 14 Volume 11 Number 3
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
st er lea cl t e dp u acr cc ouh na ts si .ng offices and will sell to other | "lose" H io nw im nu cc rh e aw si ell d In dla in sd c o a un nd t t sh e t opu b fli esh mer is nist and
Titles listed in the catalog will combine other stores that would buy the books anyway?
for discount on a graduated scale (i.e., 42% for How much will the bookstores benefit from the
50+ books, etc.) which will avail most feminist increased discount? Will stores that would
bookstores an increased discount over Inland's otherwise have ordered directly from the pub-
standard 40% and will bring Inland into a more lishers now order from Inland, to get the added
competitive position vis a vis other distri- discount? Assuming the program is successful in
butors. getting the books into general independent and
The catalog is financed in large part by chain bookstores, will that affect feminist
publisher advertising ($400/page with not more booksellers in any significant way? Or will it
than three titles per page). Publishers will generate a large enough increase in income for
also give Inland an increased discount to help the publishers to facilitate publishing more
finance the graduated scale and the rest of the b oo vo ek rs a ( lt lh u ss, a l i en s t h fe o r l o n fg e mter im n i sg te n e br oat oin kg s t m oror ee s and so
program. And, of course, questions abound -- Will cancelling out any "lost" sales of specific
a yin d evc tr ,e e r a t ws ie s ii ld n l g s t a h l a ee n s d p o r gf o r g a rb d ao u mo ak t s e b d e c o dv oi ue scr to r u at gnh ete os u? sc lo O ys r t , s u o bf ce c t et t sh e s-re t ts ei ru vt il bc ee us c r? te y) i os o nsA n fn u oed f' l s p f e w er s mh hila ia nlp r s is e t t dm h bo e os g t o ko c si aam ?lt p a o l or o ft ga n t i nb o e cf r eia anll s, i nh f go uw r t th he er i dn ig s-
Naiad's new "No Frills" book sales is one Couples, A Letter to Harvey Milk) as well as
of several spinoffs from the feminist publishers bestselling backlist (Dreams of the Woman Who
meetings at ABA. Loved Sex, Dykes- and More Dykes to Watch Out
Beginning with Naiad's summer mailing, For, Cass and Skiptrace, Choices) and books that
Naiad will list lesbian titles from other pub- deserve more attention than they've had such as
lishers in its new-book promotions to its direct Dancer Dawkins, Lovers' Choice, and The River-
mail list. The books will be listed with minimal house Stories.
description (price, author, titles and a three The word at ABA was that Naiad would buy
to twelve word blurb), and will be for sale to books at 55% discount, non-returnable, freight-
retail customers only. (Last minute addition: |In free, with payment due in 60 days (and on
response to bookstore feedback, Naiad will add a time!).
note to fall mailings to the effect that all Booksellers, meanwhile, are questioning why
Naiad & "No Frills" titles are also available at Naiad (as a retail/mail order bookseller) is
your local women's, gay, & alternative book- getting discounts that vastly exceed discounts
stores and that Naiad will send the names of the normally available to bookstores, especially
nearest bookstores to anyone who sends them a when selling to overlapping markets, and are
SASE: ) wondering when the same discounts will be ex-
The program is based on the idea that tended to them, and when the new discount sched-
Naiad's 12,000+ mailing list includes a number ules will be published by the participating
of women who don't know about the books and publishers. Several booksellers have noted that
aren't already buying them from other sources. the NCBA legal battle against preferential dis-
The first list includes 25 titles ranging from counting to chain stores proved once and for all
Long Time Passing (Alyson) to Sisters of the that unpublished discounts (preferential dis-
Road (Seal) and includes at least one new title counts not available to all customers) are
(The Crystal Curtain), spring releases (Lesbian clearly illegal as well as unethical. Recollec-
Volume 11 Number 3 15
September 1988
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termstion is also that Avon failed to prove in court in the case of stores that are doing a sig-
that large volume discounts reduced Avon's costs nificant amount of mail order sales. Publishers
enough to justify the additional discounts they generally subscribe to the theory that people
were extending to chains. who buy mail order won't or don't buy the same
If quantity buying is the basis for the items in a store and the booksellers will be
new discount, booksellers need to know the full watching to see if it's so. Feminist bookstore
range of discounts available to retail accounts. experience with the Century Book Club indicated
Does this discount apply only to the initial that some initial sales were lost during the
stock order, or will it apply to smaller re- initial promotion (documented by customers who
placement stock orders as well, and at what commented that they wished they hadn't ordered a
minimums? One wants to assume that if new dis- particular book from the bookclub, as it was in
count schedules are being created, the pub- the store before they'd received theirs in the
lishers will announce them to booksellers as mail.) Long term, it wasn't possible to document
quickly as possible so that the booksellers can if sales lost were cancelled out by sales re-
arrange their fall buying to accommodate the new sulting from the increased publicity. The gen-
discount schedules. Booksellers have specified eral concensus after Century's demise was that
that they would go to great lengths to get a 55% the mail order club had had no discernable
discount, including joint ordering to reach impact on overall sales in stores.
minimums and/or ordering long-term supplies of In any case, the "No Frills" book promotion
specific titles to acheive discount indicates that there may be considerable varia-
Booksellers, as with the Century Book Club tions in discounts available to those who can
promotion of a few years past, will aliso be negotiate with quantity orders and are willing
watching to see if this promotion affects their to tend to the details of doing so. And/or, it
sales either positively, as women come in look- may be opening a whole range of discounts to
ing for specific : titles as a result of ‘the booksellers. (See also the new discounts in
increased publicity, or negatively, particularly Inland's new Women's Books Catalog.) i
One thing is dependable about feminist fully to be achieving this.) The very idea that
bookselling -- just when you think you've got it Inland has mounted this campaign to sell femi-
figured out and know how to do it and what to nist press books to the chains reflects that
expect -- it changes. Here at the end of the success, as does the degree to which feminist
eighties we're seeing a lot of changes -- and and other bookstores have proven the market for
not a few of them look like the fulfillment of both our books and the books that mainstream
some of our wilder dreams at the beginning of publishers are increasingly interested in pub-
this wave of the Women-In-Print movement -- the lishing.
distribution of feminist press books by Ingram, Meanwhile, it's important to remember that
for example, and the (presumably soon to be) these changes are affecting the different parts
ready availability of feminist books to women of the Women-in-Print movement in different
who shop only in chain bookstores. ways. Mainstream publishers are very willing to
Almost all of the changes reflect a wider pick up best-selling feminist press authors, and
acceptance and the continually increasing sale- feminist presses will either lose some of their
ability of feminist books. (We must be doing bestselling authors and/or will develop strate-
something right to be achieving this. No, gies to keep authors who are being lured with
be clearer, we must be doing a lot very success- promises of increased sales, hardcover editions
~
Volume 11 Number 3
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
and reviews in the New York Times... Scrambling
to increase sales in mainstream independent and
chain bookstores is a part of that effort as is STRONG MOTHERS,
the Naiad "No Frills" program. But publishers
are also waiting to see how these programs work WEAK WIVES
-- if the additional sales outweigh the addi-
t gio rn aa ml d si s c wou in lt l s, l oif s e t h e si ar l e o sw n t om a Nil a o ir ad de 'r s p "r No- o Frills" MTh IRe I AS Mea r c Mh . f Jo Or H NGe Sn Od Ner Equality
sales. “For years I have been impressed by the originality
This fall's influx of Women's Press/U.K. a an nd d i mn as li eg h dt o mof i n aJ no ch en . s o Tn h’ is s a br ot oic kl e s c o o nn t in g ue en s d e ar n, d sexuality,
and Virago Press titles is bound to have an expands the excellent quality of the earlier work ..…..It
hi em rep o anr dt a n ont b i om oksp ea llc int g . o Bn e y ob no d t h th e f he am ppi yn i fs at c t publishing wtilhl seuroelry y be. ” r ec o—gnizNed a ans ac yma jo rC whorok d ofo rfeomwinis,t
of having more excellent titles to sell, what University of California, Berkeley
will the other short and long-term ramifications
be? Will the influx of backlist titles that are
"new" to American buyers compete with "local
presses" for sales? Will the influx of new les-
` bian novels improve the standard for lesbian
fiction?
Booksellers face different issues than the
publishers. Will the sales of feminist press
books to mainstream and chain bookstores impact
sales negatively? Or will the influx of new
titles this fall more than offset any sales lost Pa é y 4i
to chain stores and/or Naiad's mailing list? How
will the long range impact of the increased REFLECTIONS ON THE
publicity from both these directions impact
sales in feminist bookstores? There's also a WAY TO THE GALLOWS
c z Gl oe n ra :r o u tm h peo v ne W e wt eo sw tIna 'r slad n d 4b 6e Wt %te o r m d ed n ii s's s cc o oCu uan t nt as tl o sgo ,,n P tt u hh be el i sh h so e pr ri s e- cial "No R Treb anel s l aW teo dm ae nn d i n E d iP tr ee d- w war it hJ a ap nan
Frills" discount and all the lovely fallout from Introduction by MIKISO HANE
Northern California Booksellers Association's ” A remarkable collection of stories, narrated by
legal victories over preferential (unpublished) modern Japanese women who resisted gender- and
discounts. class-based oppression. These narratives, in which
women emerge as central protagonists in over half a
We might all do well, at this juncture, to century of political and ideological conflict, challenge
pause for a few moments to remember that the the dominant narrative of modern Japanese success
original goal of this movement was to distribute and the stereotype of female submissiveness it has so
women's work and feminist ideas. We're clearly effectively perpetuated.” —Brett de Bary,
succeeding in that goal. But it's equally clear Professor of Asian Studies, Cornell University
that we haven't achieved the degree of success $22.50
(nor are we likely to see it in any of our A Special Collaboration with Pantheon Books
lifetimes) wherein feminist bookstores and femi-
nist publishers are no longer necessary. It's At bookstores or order toll-free 800-822-6657.
essential that we work out strategies for the Visa & MasterCard only.
e tn hd is o mf o vt eh me e nei tg . h t Wie es ct eh ra tt a i nsu lyp p o dr ot n ' ta l l w aa nsp t e c tt os so ef ll University of
o ln isly h w -h -a t nm oa rin s t wre ia lm l fpu eb mlis ih ne ir ss t c h poo us be l it so h ep rub s- last long California Press
without a solid distribution network of feminist Berkeley 94720
CONTINUED ON PAGE 88
Volume 11 Number 3 September 1988
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
Line The Shelves With Seven New Titles For Fall 1988
i From BANNED BOOKS f
Ripening, Valerie Taylor. Conclusion to the popular, enduring Erika Frohmann series. A book all
Valerie Taylor fans will want to read. This quiet, often humorous book is definitely for those who
love happy, positive endings. ISBN 0-934411-10-7, $8.95, late September.
These Lovers Fled Away, Morgan Graham. Moving historical romance based on the lives of Eleanor
Butler and Sarah Ponsonby, “the Ladies of Llangollen.” Ms. Graham has captured the mood of
eighteenth-century Ireland beautifully. ISBN 0-934411-11-5, $8.95, late September.
_ Profiles Encourage, Pamela S. Johnson. (Nonfiction) Biographies of twenty modern-day women.
Some included are: Rachel Crotto, one-time U.S. woman’s chess champion; Carolyn Carney, a blind
counselor and private practice therapist; Katy Riney, program administrator for the Sugar Ray
Robinson Youth Foundation; Katherine J. Hamilton, a deputy city attorney for Los Angeles; Jane
Kim, executive director for the Korean Youth Center in Los Angeles; and Jinx Beers, publisher
of Lesbian News. ISBN 0-934411-16-6, $8.95, late October.
Like Coming Home: Coming-Out Letters, edited 4) Meg Umans. (Nonfiction) Coming-out letters
with some of their responses. Compelling reading and an important addition to the shelves of
anyone interested in this timely subject. ISBN 0-934411-12-3, $7.95, late September.
— Primarily (But Not Necessarily) For the Men In Your Store —
A Herd of Tiny Elephants, Stan Leventhal. New collection of short stories from the author of the novel
Mountain Climbing in Sheridan Square. ISBN 0-934411-13-1, 98.95, October.
Diary of a New York Queen, William Barber. All Nicolas wanted for Christmas was that wool sweater
with the red angle stripes across the chest that he craved soo in the window at Barney’s ..….
ISBN 0-934411-14-X, 98.95, October.
gay(s)language, H. Max. X-rated, cross-referenced dictionary of gay slang —just for laughs. Great gift
item. ISBN 0-934411-15-8, 94.95, late September.
* ú *
Dreams of the Woman Who Loved Sex (7.95) will soon go into its fifth printing. Be on the lookout
Spring 1989 for Lovers, a new collection from Tee Corinne. She is also working on an anthology of lesbian
erotica, featuring twenty women of color, for Summer 1989!
Don’t forget Antoinette Azolakov’s Skiptrace and Cass and the Stone Butch, *8.95 each, and Benita
Kirkland’s Death Strip, *8.95.
Available From: Inland, Bookpeople, Baker & Taylor, or BANNED BOOKS
Number 231, P.O. Box 33280, Austin, Texas 78764— (512) 288-5884
September 1988 18 Volume 11 Number 3
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
By Donna J. Murray raised by the individual with a short descrip-
Everywoman's Bookstore/Victoria, B.C. tion of the store, its size, staffing and other
details | remembered to inquire about:
At the 3rd International Feminist Bookfair, Renee Albrecht is the owner operator of the
booksellers generally agreed that there was not Women's Bookstop in Hamilton, Ontario. It has
a particular venue for discussion among them- been open since 1985 and has employed one part-
selves excepting one workshop -- Bookselling and time assistant since this year. Renee asks: do
Ethics -- which presented a wide variety of other stores have a public feminist policy, what
points of view in the world in a full, two-hour is it, what are their politics, do they 'wear
session. them on their sleeves'; do stores have a large
Because of time constraints there was lit- Women and Development section; what is your
tle room for open discussion between the audi- vision of what happened at the Fair, how did it
ence and the panelists. Carol Seajay, along with raise your consciousness, what was successful?
others set up several meetings hoping to allow
for some further discussion among booksellers.
Canadian booksellers set up a separate
meeting when an hour could be grabbed, but time
only permitted a small scratching of the surface
of those topics the women wanted to discúss. So
in an effort to allow for communication | took
it up to interview briefly as many of the Cana-
dian booksellers as possible in the week, report Anne Kent is one of the paid employees at
the comments in FBN and open the way for those Bold Print in Winnepeg, Manitoba. She works in
women to respond. the privately owned year-and-a-half old store
This article’ is intended to allow for a which consists of roughly 800 square feet and
forum for Canadian feminist booksellers to use carries about 4,000 titles. Hierarchical in
to discuss issues that pertain particularly to structure Bold Print, owned by Joan Turner,
us in our experiences in the trade. Topics range employs an additional four part-time staff mem-
from points on minute detail to the general bers. Anne asks: What are some of the categories
basic political inquiries and, of course, many that stock has been broken down into? She says:
of the questions and comments raised during the "Currently Bold Print has very general headings
interviews are those which all feminist book- with books arranged alphabetically by author. |
sellers want to and do address, and comments find this inadequate as books on a given subject
would be welcomed from all readers of FBN. Ob- are scattered throughout the section. What would
viously, the experiences of other stores world- be helpful to me would be a listing of headings
wide are often exactly those of Canadian stores, and subheadings. | could break the sections down
but what women expressed when interviewed was a ad infinitum and knowing where other booksellers
desire for some insight into the Canadian ex- know where to stop would save me a lot of
perience of bookselling. time."; how do other booksellers handle special
Following is a brief synopsis of each of orders, how do you order them quickly -- noti-
the interviews conducted, including questions fying customers that the book is in is not
`
Number 3 September 1988
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsƏ103SŅ004 3STȚUTWUəƏ] Ə
886I 1quəzdəs € SSgWNN [| SWN
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
always easy; how could we be (should we be) Andrea Harbour, from Common Woman Books in
Edmonton, Alberta which has been open since
ga e adraiyn)g w Beo l dm iPgrhitn t b et o wcoamrdp u ttherei z edda?y `(.w. ilsl asth e Ere be 1981, is the one full-time, paid employee at
Debby Gregory is a member of the approxi- this store which relies also on a pool of about
mately twenty-member, constantly evolving, vol- twelve volunteers to operate. The paid position
unteer collective that has seen Everywoman's has been in place fer about one year after nine
Bookstore in Victoria, British Columbia, into years of operation without salaried workers.
its fifteenth year of operation. Debby would Andrea would like to have had more opportunity
have liked to have seen further discussion taken at the Fair for talking about the politics of
up in the workshop where Carol Seajay raised feminist bookstores and the evolution of poli-
issues about composition of staff and the com- tics within those stores. An example of a poli-
position of stock in shaping the nature of femi- tical dilemma faced by Common Woman Books was
nism within a community. She would like to know during a massive postal strike which coincided
more about the history of different patterns of with their need to send a mailout (1,100 pieces)
staffing and ownership and a discussion of tran- to advertise an upcoming poetry reading -- how
sitions and how those different patterns have could they support the striking workers yet
affected the politics and stock and the day-to- ensure the store's own survival when the main
day operation. She also asks: what sort of femi- form of advertising this long-planned-for event
nism do we represent in the community and what was by using the mail service. In the long run,
is our relationship with our communities and; do says Andrea, '"we went for ourselves." A cus-
feminist bookstores have a responsibility to tomer, a postal worker, took umbrage at the
local women authors and if so, what is the store's decision to mail info when her union was
nature of that responsibility ? on strike. "It raised interesting questions,"
Other questions Debby would like to see says Andrea, '"How do you support others when you
discussed include: how do other bookstores bal- want them to support you?"
ance politics and efficiency, what are their Andrea would also like to hear comments
priorities - for example what do you do about about having a gay men's section in the store.
carrying books that don't sell at all but are Has anyone got one, are you thinking of having
among those you feel every feminist bookstore one, are your customers from the women's com-
should carry, or, what are the kinds of tech- munity offended?
nical demands you can make on your staff whether Andrea's answer to discussing Canadian
it's boss/worker or a collective that makes content is to try getting Canadian feminist
demands on itself; if someone isn't a perfect booksellers together at a weekend retreat once
employee how do you deal with it in a feminist evoerfy c outplhe oef y eacrso, usomnewtherrey in! t he: middle
context; and yes, what about when and how to
computer ize? The Toronto Women's Bookstere, in Ontario,
is currently operated by a five-member collec-
tive. Up until two years ago the store was
operated by two women who acted as managers and
according to Ester Vise, "It wasn't a feminist
structure." She states that now, "It is a femi-
nist structure. It is not hierarchical." A board
collaborates on issues collectively and handles
In terms of Canadian content, Debby ques- the budget and policies for the store. - i
tions what specific conditions Canadian book- Esther, Wendy Wine and Sharon Fernandez,
stores operate under and what do we do about any all collective members at the Toronto store,
of them - isolation, inability to get foreign agreed that the Fair needed a forum for book-
books directly, having to go through faraway sellers. Their comments included: There was not
distributors such as the UK or France; and what enough dialogue between booksellers and pub-
,do we have in common with other bookstores in lishers; Publishers want books in the stores --
io tt ieh s,e r w h p ata r at rs e oo uf r ct omhe m o nw alo itr iel sd . , . what are our peer w ine c s re ell a sb io no gks myet a r t kh eer te s , w a fs e mno i nf io sr tu m e cto o n d ois mcu yss , or the
Number 3 21 September 1988
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bøokstore News
lishers change distributors. She would like to
know how other booksellers keep in touch with
publishers who don't really widely publicize.
She would be interested in hearing how any
stores have developed a mail order service, and
efficient ways of distributing book lists would
be helpful as well.
Odette Desormeauz, from Librarie I'Essen-
tiele, in Montreal, Quebec works together with
LABRYS another woman in the first bilingual feminist
GOLD VINYL DECALS bookstore in that city. She, too was disap-
CAR WINDO WFOR S, BUMPERS p so ei ln lt ee rd s w ait th t th he e l ac fk a i rof , a brr ua tn g e fm ee ln tt s t f ho ar t b o io tk - was a
OR ANY NON-POROUS wonderful opportunity to see what else is being
B P AR GE S- ,P A HC OK L AS EU G -R PEFA UDC N,E C I HN E DP O FL OY R p du idb nli 'ts h e kd n, o wan d a b ow ua ts fd re oli mgh t de id st at no t f pi ln ad ce sb ."ooks, "we
HANGING DISPLAYS - INSERT Odette wishes very much to see an associa-
W TW HH OI IT S L H E F S E AH M LIS EINT , O I SR 1T I C DA I OCL ZO .N I N M F - I O N $ . 1A / OB E RAO DU . ET R t "i Won e o cf an w go em t e n so's m eb to ho ik ns gt o r ge os i n i gn ." Canada and hopes
PLUS $1 POSTAGE/HAND.,
$1.50 P/H FOR 2 DOZ. Also represented at the Fair, although not
CHECKS PAYABLE TO: GAIL MEESE interviewed for this article, was the Book Womb,
MAIL CT OO L: U 3 M1 B UW S,. L OO HN IOG V 4I 3E 2W 02 AVE. W woi mnn bi mpe og b's i le e x ic sl u os piv ee r a tw edim m byin ' Js a hb noo ek t Hse er wv si ic ce k. T anh dis
Shirley Walker. Their motto is "Have books, will
travel." They operate out of a mobile unit and
dissemination of information. "think that book parties are a great way to
Sharon noted, '"We want publishers to be combine books, food, fun, politics and wimmin.""
e s fv to ee rr mey sw i n h w ie h sr e te r. e W l it te h ee r w aman tat ui n r st eth r .e e a Bmbo u o tk w s i l l wi n b e e t h nee x e p em o dsa e i dn as t tr oe ca om nscious the Fa iT r h e r e pO rt et sa ew na t e dW o bm y e n P's e g gB yo o k Hs at ro rr ie s . w Pa es g ga yls o w aa st
pf oem rti in ni g s t J a u p du fb e eml ic i Jn ib osu t hy ni en c sg o t n oof nmem ,y i . n " cis ot l l eb coo tk is v e a n d m s eu mp- ber, in a n a pt eo i rt v i e e ni n cot efe d r v a b i e ypw r e o Cd b a l n ea amt d i a t o nh f a t s d t oiF s ra t ei ar sn , c w eb a u sat n t dp h e eir s h o da l iap fts fi o i cnin u l d tei yxc- -
later telephone call, agreed that, "there could in seeing to fruition Peggy's attempt to organ-
have been more strategizing around feminist ize a sha.ed Canadian booth for the Trade days.
bookselling." She set out early in the preparations to try to
Booksto M rea r ig na r e Tt h uP nh di ell ri p s B, a yf ,r o Om n t aN ro ior t h re ur nn s W a o om nee -n's g fe ot r t h we hw aid te e- vsp er re ad r eg ar sou op n st ,o g e rt eh cer e, i v b eu t t d hid e n hot o, ped for
woman 'essentially volunteer' store which opens response.
three days a week. "It's surviving," she says
and has been for four years. The store, 280 sq. These comments are those | was able to
ft., carries currently about 450 titles which collect -- and recollect -- from short impromptu
Margaret hopes to be able to double in the next interviews, between workshops, browsing and
year. Networking is an important issue for this b tu ey nin tg ia st t nh oe w F e m oi pn eis nt B foo ok rf a i dr. i s C ca un sa sd iia on n .C ..o sn e- nd your
isolated northern store. One thing that woóould be comments, questions and answers to Canadian
useful to Margaret is if someone gets informa- Content, c/o D J Murray, The Cottage, 1175
tion more quickly than she, to keep her posted. Hampshire Road, Victoria, BC, Canada, V8S 4T1 so
She never sees sales reps and feels out of touch we can look at issues that are raised above or
with the 'gossip' of the trade. She finds it raised because of comments above. And, what
difficult to keep track of changes when pub- about a meeting every two years or so?* O
Volume 11 Number 3
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
e RH UD: JOP
Alicia Partnoy (You Can't Drown the Fire: in early 1989. Chris was originally published by
Latin American Women Writing in Exile and The Beacon in 1958. (That's Beacon, the schlock mass
Little School) has recently joined Cleis Press market publisher of the 50's, not Beacon Press
as an acquisitions editor with the specific goal as in publisher of Mary Daly, Judy Grahn, and
of developing a strong list of Latin American the Black Women Writers Series.)
Women's literature in translation. The Latin
A mm ene tr i c ta on ps uer bi le iss h ii ns g p a inrt t e ro nf a t iC ol nei as l P wr oe mss e' n 'c so m lim tei rt a- - H
ture. Cleis is also seeking translations from
other regions. Dorothy Alison (Trash, forthcoming this
Citing the growing demand for Latin Ameri- fall from Firebrand Books) is now the regular
can women's writing, Co-Editor Frederique Dela- review columnist for On Our Backs. Books, videos
coste has pledged a portion of the Press' income and journals should be sent to her attention at
from foreign rights sales to this project. In On, 526 Castro St., San Francisco CA 94114.
this way, sales of titles originally published
for U.S. audiences will help support the trans- Beacon Press is launching a new children's
lation and publication of Latin American women's imprint, Night Lights, that will focus on titles
literature. Cleis is also seeking additional that are feminist and issue oriented. Of the
funding sources for translation costs. first three books scheduled, Where Is Daddy? The
Authors, editors and translators may con- Story of a Divorce by Beth Goff was previously
tact Alicia Partnoy directly at PO Box 21425, published by Beacon; Lonesome Boy by Arna Bon-
Washington DC 20009. Please include SASE in all temps and The Drugstore Cat by Ann Petrie are
correspondence. out-of-print titles by Beacon authors for which
w Beacon purchased rights. Series editor Amy Ellis
plans to publish two additional titles this
winter and two more in the spring.
Naiad Press will pay $100 for a copy of
March Hastings' Three Women (originally published Greta Schiller, director of the Emmy Award
in mass market by Beacon in 1958. Naiad has a winning documentary Before Stonewall has been
contract to reprint the book but doesn't have a- awarded a Fulbright grant to pursue narrative
copy of the original to work from.... In addi- film production in Great Britain.
tion to the $100, Naiad offers a dozen copies of
the new edition and the satisfaction of helping Muriel Fortier has a collection of 200
to bring the book back into print. Barbara Grier lesbian paperbacks from the '50's and would like
notes that Hastings has agreed to rewrite the to get in touch with lesbians interested in
ending as she might have preferred to write it, exchanging books and information of the subject
had Beacon not had specific requirements for how and studies made at that time, published or not.
lesbian Nn ao iv adel s w c ilo lu l ad l s oe n rd e pt rh inen t . Randy Salem's Chris P Qlea use e c bon eta cct , h er C a at n 27 a5 d W ao od l Hand 4 HAve ., 1Ve Vrd 5on ., O
Volume 11 Number 3 September 1988
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
Now at Inland
of course, was a whirl of energy, from which she proceeds to weave her stories.
Part of the time, of The result is often outrageous or bizarre -- but
course, went to reconnecting with old friends always original. She lives in Sydney, writing
and acquaintances, and meeting the women who are for film and television. Her play Accidental
making women-in-print happen in their own coun- Phantasies has been widely performed here. 0-
tries. One of the first pieces of exciting news 908652-33-X, $10.95.
was that The New Women's Press in New Zealand Papakainga, poems by Trixie Te Arama Men-
. had signed on with Inland and that their books zies. Papakainga is actually published by Waiata
were en route! The books should be at Inland by Koa, a Maori women's publishing collective. NWP
the time you read this. New Women's Press pub- does distribution feor Waiata Koa in NZ and
lisher Wendy Harrex gave FBN a "guided tour" of abroad as support for their work. Te Arama won
New Women's Press books that is reproduced below the 1987 NZ PEN Best First Book of Poetry Award.
as closely as | can recall it from our talks in She has tapped the source of power in her Maori
both Montreal and later at NWSA... and with a ancestral roots.... The men were the orators on
bit of help from their catalog. the marae, the women the poets.... Te Arama
: Prices below are in U.S. dollars. If they transports us to the untrammeled, perilous pure
seem a bit on the steep side, keep in mind that part of her inner being. |llustrated by Toe Te
they include the shipping from New Zealand to Rito Maihi. $7.95.
Connecticut -- which is a long haul.... Guts, Tears, and Glory: Champion New Zea-
land Sportswomen Talk to Trish Stratford. New
FALL TITLES Zealand has a surprising number of sportswomen
"New Women's Fiction will be out in Septem- who have achieved outstanding success in in-
ber. We do a new edition each year, rather than ternational competition whether it be in
reprinting the same collection year after rowing, netball, squash, triathlons or ath-
year.... It's a place for emerging writers to letics. Erin Baker (world champion Triathlete),
publish, and contains previously unpublished Susan Devoy Neroli Fairhall (paraplegic athlete
stories by both well known and new writers in- who won the gold medal in the Commenwealth games
cluding Arapera Blank, Frances Cherry, Jan Kemp, in 1980), Stephanie Foster, Sylvia Hume, Maree
Anne Kennedy, Heather McPherson, Wendy Pond, Sue Lyndon, Allison Roe (winner of the Boston and NY
kR ue .i d y N, e w E l i Wza ob met eh n ' sS m Fi it ch tie or n a n isd t N heg a h bu ooia k T te o A rw eae dk o it fu- Cm oa lr lea et nh o n Ms i, l l s't h ae n d f a os tt hes et r s w to em lla n t h i en ir t sh te o r w ieo s r l td o"),
you want to know what New Zealand women are television sports journalist Trish Stratford who
writing about now. This year's collection is has known many of them for years. A book of real
edited by Aorewa McLeod. 0-908652-30-5, $11.95. women's stories, rather than just media hype --
Last year's edition, edited by Cathie Dunsford, i.e., Allison Roe writes about her injuries, as
is out-of-print." well as the glory. 0-908652-21-3, $10.95.
The Glass Whittier is a collection of short Healing Your Child by Frances and Louise
stories by Stephanie Johnson. She assembles a Darragh is a practical and comprehensive manual
remarkable group of characters and situations for use by all parents who would like to treat
24 Volume 11 Number 3
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
as many childhood ailments and injuries as pos- New Zealanders avail their children of the op-
sible without recourse to (yet another) round of portunity to explore the indigenous language oof
antibiotics. Guides parents through the progres- this wonderful country." She is a teacher and
sive stages of an illness and the journey back has published short stories and articles as well
to good health. Includes advice on what parents as poetry. Her work is included in the Penguin
can do, when to seek professional advice, the Book of New Zealand Verse. Published by Waiata
use of herbs, homeopathic remedies and cell Koa, distributed by NWP. $7.95.
salts. 0-908652-26-7, $13.95. December.
FICTION
BACKLIST -- POETRY The Daughter-in-Law and Other Stories by
Frances Cherry includes a range of stories, some
Uenuku is the short collection of poems by lesbian, others depicting women in violent re-
Trixie Te Arama Menzies that won her the NZ PEN lationships with men and their escapes (i.e., a
Award. Published by Waiata Koa, distributed by mother of five murders her abusive husband),
NWP. $6.95. many stories about parents (from the children's
perspective) ànd parenting. Some stories sparkle
NGA KOKAKO HUATARATARA with wry humor. In Cherry's forthcoming novel
she writes about leaving a marriage and about a
claustrophobic lesbian relationship. 0-908652-
19-4. $9.95
Deep Breathing, a novel by Lora Mountjoy is
an imaginative first novel set in the future --
in Aotearoa after nuclear accidents and environ-
mental disasters have terminated international
communication. Radia, a survivor from an Antar-
ctic research station travels to NZ where she
encounters a wide range of communities strug-
gling to create a new way of life. 0-908652-06-
2, $9.95.
Two Deaths in One Night, Janet Charman.
"These poems are vivid, witty, and understated.
They are set in all sorts of unexpected contexts
and explore personal and sexual relationships,
women's roles and often quite ordinary things in
a surprising new way." Charman trained as a
ZIN nurse, co-published Wominspace Journal, and has
work in The New Poets (Allen & Unwin 1987). 0-
908652-27-5, $7.95.
NEW WOMEN'S CLASSICS
"Rediscovering works by New Zealand women
writers." This series is modeled on the Virago
Modern Classics and includes both fiction and
nonfiction.
Nga Kokako Huataratara: The Notched Plumes Makereti: The Old-Time Maori. Makereti,
of the Kokako, by Maori writer Arapera Hineira also known as Maggie Papakura, finished writing
Kaa Blank. "Elegant words, elegant design, a this book shortly before her sudden death in
small gift of insight." Says Blank, "I enjoy 1930. It was to have been presented for a degree
words that sparkle, whether they are in Maori, at Oxford University and was eventually pub-
my mother tongue, or English. What a privilege lished posthumously in 1938 (500 copies) and
it is to inherit and to appreciate a language, republished by NWP in 1987 after being out of
and to enjoy another equally. | hope that Pakeha print for decades. Makereti was raised by her
Number 3 September 1988
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsMaori elders and recorded the knowledge that had
been passed on to her in her youth. It was a
massive task, as she checked everything she
wrote with her old people living in New Zealand.
Nothing was to be printed without their permis-
sion. lIt is the first comprehensive account of
Maori life by a Maori scholar and presents a
women's view of the Maori world. She includes
information on menstruation and childbirth that
has rarely been included in other accounts. O0-
908652-11-9, $12.95.
Nor the Years Condemn by Robin Hyde (pen
name of Iris Wilkinson) tells the tale of Doug-
las Stark, a Black American Indian and his life
against the shifting panorama of New Zealand in
the first three decades of this century. Hyde
was a powerful social critic for whom the cen-
tral problem was racial, sexual and economic
conflict in a society whose very foundations
were the expropriation and exploitation of land.
Many strong women characters. 0-908652-09-7.
$12.95. Hyde's earlier work, Dragon Rampant, an
autobiographical account of her experiences in
Hong Kong and China when China was in turmoil
and resisting the invading Japanese (1939), was
also published as a part of this series and is
temporarily out of print.
Other titles in this series include Nest in
a Falling Tree by Joy Crowley ($10.95) and The
Love Contract by Margaret Sutherland, a pre-
Marilyn French novel of suburban marriage from
an emerging feminist perspective. $10.95.
HEAL TH
Save the Midwife by Joan Donley explores
what has happened to midwives and midwifery in
New Zealand in this century -- an almost univer-
sal story tracing the takeover of childbirth by
medical men armed with forceps and sedation --
and their relentless undermining of the status
of the midwife so that now the very survival of
her profession is at stake. Includes traditional
and contemporary Maori birthing and midwifery
practices. 0-908652-05-4, $12.95.
Other books in the health series include
Healthy Women ($10.95) and Self-Defence for
Women ($9.95).
PEACE STUDIES
Peace Is More Than the Absence of War col-
lects photos of the various peace movements by
Gil Hanly, illustrating essays on Women and The
September 1988 Volume 11 Number 3
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
Peace Movement, Toward a Nuclear-Free Pacific the 150th anniversary of publishing in New Zea-
from a Maori Perspective ("The nuclear threat is land. It probably wouldn't have been a best
merely an advanced form of colonialism. The seller outside of the immediate women-in-print
coloniser has come with a bigger gun, and a community, but for those of us who love booking,
bigger message -of peace. It's the same thing."), it's a real pleasure. Photos and biographies of
Working in a Local Peace Group, Peace Education, women from all aspects of the book industry from
aOndv merorse.i zAend e x cpellaenpt e prebacea cekdu.c at io0n- 9to0ol8. 6m5ai2ns-tr2e3am- 2 p,u b li$sh1er1s . 9to5 .f em :inist booksellers
Feet Across America by Anne Macfarlane
tells the tale of two New Zealand women ("nei- WAIATA KAINGAKAU
ther of them young" 55 and 62) who trekked
across America on foot with The Great Peace
March to promote the idea of nuclear disarma-
ment. "Compulsive reading" and very insightful
on the process and dynamics of keeping a vast
peace project functioning on a daily basis. O0-
908652-25-9, $11.95.
WOMEN'S STUDIES
Women's Studies, "A New Zealand Handbook"
looks to be an excellent resource for anyone
putting together general women's studies books.
Offers information in short form (as well as
discussion topics and suggestions and resources
for further information) on women and work,
language, health, sexuality, education, law,
images of women, lesbian women, feminist theory
and history. "The basis of a women's studies
course all together between two covers," 0-
908652-15-1, $11.95.
Poorman Oranges: Women in Community Houses
in Auckland tells the stories of women working
in the network of 40+ Community Houses in Auck-
land. 0-908652-29-1, $8.95.
Twenty-Eight Days in Kiribati, by Claudia
Pfonlda tEymley a atnde s R ob iinn W h itteh. Wehiirte anadr Etysleyc h woereol days. Twenty years :
later, Eyley and her daughter visited White when SOUL SONGS
she was living on Kiribati, a small Pacific
island republic. Twenty-Eight Days is a sketch- including sales reps, designers, packagers, il-
book/journal/artbook portraying that visit. 0- lustrators, writers, translators, critics, edi-
908652-24-0, $21.95 large format pb. tors, photographers and more. It's a veritable
celebration of women-in-print. The portraits of
CALENDARS New Zealand feminist bookstores in this issue
The New Zealand women's calendar is called | (or space forbidding, in the next issue) are
Herstory and deals with a different theme each | from the calendar. A great read if you can get
year. Herstory 1987 was one of the most powerful your hands on a copy.
women's art calendars |'ve ever seen. Much of The focus of Herstory 1989 will be women
the art is by Maori women, and all of it is and sports and will be published this fall in
strongly political. It's a calendar I| dearly | conjunction with Guts, Tears and Glory. I! don't
wish I'd been able to sell. Herstory 1988 cele- | think it was ready in time to arrange sales and
brates New Women's Press' 5th anniversary and | distribu ytion via Inland, but maybe next year? O
Volume 11 Number 3 27 September 1988
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsPandora Press
Israel: The Embattled A Women’s History of
Land Sex
Harriet Gilbert and Christine A Feminist Analysis
Talk About Their Lives Roche Christine Overall
Beata Lipman 1988, 218pp. 1987, 256pp.
1988, 232pp. $29.95 cloth 0-86358-051-3 $34.95 cloth 0-04-497009-9
$12.95 paper 0-86358-286-9 $11.95 paper 0-86358-142-0 $13.95 paper 0-04-497010-2
Pandora Press Pandora Press
AE mar erly ica n R Wip oe mn ei nn ’sg Poetry TW wor i t Ci en ntg u r ia es N ofe w Au s tW rao liar nld [VAJ T TMh he ea s cM Nu ea wk lii nn Mg i t e nio e ’f ss Studies
N E P$1d ao 1 niw 9t d1e 8 od . r7 9 a , 5b y P r2 p eM 8 sa sa 4r pg p ee p r .P i e 0rc -y 86358-141-2 PW D $1 a3 na 9o d4l 8e om .8 r9 a , 5 e S Pn p r3 c ee 8 sln sW 4 od p tr e hpi r .t e 0r -s 86358-172-2 E $ $1d 9 3 1i 8t 9 47e ,d . . 9 9 3b 5 55y 2 p P c pH p la a. or pr ty eh r B r 0o 0d - -0 04 4- -4 49 97 70 03 35 6- -8 6
Female Crime Boxed In
r Th ien C oCnrstirmucitnioonlo gofy W : o mSSenT T < , AA sTinPiTstK D iEctdiiotneadry bWyo m Hene l eannd BTaeelehvris i oannd
N1g9a8i8re, N1a4f3fpinpe. a, G2il0li a n(P PD-y.e r :
$34.95 cloth 0-04-302004-6 $33.00 cloth 0-86358-060-2 i N9
$12.95 paper 0-04-330393-5 $12.95 paper 0:86358-015-7 $11.95 paper 0-86358-216-8
Flowers in Hell Half the Earth Pandora Press
An Investigation into Women Women’s Experiences of Travel :
and Crime Worldwide Inside Women `
Barney Bardsley Edited by Miranda Davies, Magazines
1988, 192pp. Laura Longrigg, and Lucinda Janice Winship
$13.95 paper 0-86358-197-8 Montefiore with Natania Jansz 1987, 180pp.
Pandora Press 1987, 456pp. $15.95 paper 0-86358-025-4
Reissue $10.95 paper 0-86358-092-0 Pandora Press
r Women of Ideas (and mt Pes „Looking On
What Men Have Done Natural Healing in Images of Femininity in the
to Them) Gynecology Visual Arts and Media
From Aphra Behn to A Manual for Women Edited and Introduced by
Adrienne Rich Rina Nissim Rosemary Betterton
Dale Spender 1986, 220pp. 1987, 293pp., illustrated
1988, 800pp. $32.00 cloth 0-86358-063-7 $45.00 cloth 0-86358-176-5
$15.95 paper 0-7448-0003-X $ 9.95 paper 0-86358-069-6 $13.95 paper 0-86358-177-3
Pandora Press Pandora Press Pandora Press
UNWIN HYMAN
(formerly Allen & Unwin)
8 Winchester Place ® Winchester, MA 01890 ° Call toll-free 1-800-547-8889, in MA or Canada 1-617-729-0830
September 1988 2B Volume 11 Number 3
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
New
Zealand
Broadsheet Bookshop Reprinted from Herstory 1988
Auckland sheet's premises in Karangahape Road forced a
The bookshop developed from Broadsheet move to Dominion Road, Mount Eden.
y f bm L o ei eba erag ne r ra s wz a i rt on li ua moe t nn e e r w n b,m . h y i ce Tc omh h am eb me cw r omia s lt ls at e g ce ini d a tn z i vii nt 1 t ei o9 ,ea 7t 2e wam d n h a da ijn c ob hd ry b o p or mA ke ou am l s kic htak ei oi scl n p a a sn l i ,d th s c af h v W i a def n eto g -em ae e lwnen a' ys s w tt i st ho uo u em a e l sie pi t ,nn ay s'S s c , t t N l o u f p hc ei odk c a we vt e t i er oh y n a Zbas , e ea e cs n anwt h d l e i a a i l f ndd d B eri de mll e ay r n c i k n ' s b e i s x r ow tbt a ooe o nn o ktmk hd g ses ee ,e n, od r. w y lo o S e,ov pf sm e e h br ce ei in b a a at l l'soh nt t i hoe e s sk p y wi is sire -, n ra - r i s ts iu nc gh aa ns d
cisions Mby ai l c o on rdse en rs u bs o oa kn d s as leh sa r e bs e g at nasks. M shao ir ri t sw , o m te an p. e sP o st ae nrs d, c rar ed cs o, r b da sd g e as r, e j e w se olr ldy, aT s- well.
r te ea rd ser s ' w r ee rqu ee s t us n w abhe ln e w to om e fn i nou dt s id ae t m ta hjo er i r c e n l- ocal book- Until recently, poetry readings were held in the
s zh ino ep .s T t hh ee mfe am il i n oi rs dt e rb o so ek rs v i ca ed v e br et ci as med e i sn o t ph oe p u m laraga- s fh oo rp , w ow mh eic nh 's a nls eo t w a oc rt ks s .as an information center
that it expanded into a bookshop in 1977. The Broadsheet's commitment to Maori people's
bookshop never had any capital input, it just attempts to reclaim their history, culture and
"grew" -- and eventually it helped subsidize the language resulted in the publication in book
cost of producing the magazine. form of Donna Awatere's Maori Sovereignty arti-
The bookshop achieved an identity of its cles in 1984, with the help of loans from sup-
own in 1985 with a full-time worker when it porters (since repaid). The book continues to
moved to Karangahape Road in central Auckland. have an impact. It is widely used as a resource
Sales improved dramatically, but Broadsheet and text, and is due to be reprinted a second
began to face competition. Feminism had gained time.
respectability and other bookshops began to tap A similar commitment to change for women
into "the women's market". The sale of Broad- and for the provision of information to women
Volume 11 Number 3 September 1988
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
Women’s Place Bookshop
September : 1988 0 Volume 11 Number 3
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
has been shown through Broadsheet's wide range
of book-related activities. These include book-
stalls at schools, government departments, con-
ferences, seminars and women's festivals. The
shop continues -to provide a mail order service.
The collective recently established Womenfile
Inc. a major collection of books, magazines and
clippings about women in New Zealand.
After ten years, Broadsheet is the coun-
try's longest-running women's bookshop. It plans
to continue providing women access to feminist
writing, information and resources.
Women's Place Bookshop
Wellington a wide range of books for women of all ages on
crafts, health, aging, birth, family care, femi-
Pam Brabants, Helena Wong, Bridget Farrel- nism, sexuality, self-assertion, child and sex-
ly, and Jennie Fulton (from left to right in the ual abuse, spirituality, gardening -- and New
photo) have been running Women's Place Bookshop Zealand fiction. We take book displays to groups
in Wellington's Courtenay Place since May 1986. in the country, and to groups like La Leche,
Prior to that the business was known as The parents center, rape crisis, women's studies and
Woman's Place and was located in a little purple continuing education. Some people are surprised
shop in upper Cuba Street. "The old shop closed when they come into the shop -- 'We didn't ex-
for financial reasons and we purchased its pect older women,' they say. All women have a
stock. For the first nine months we worked place and people do not have to be labelled."
seven-day weeks and twelve-hour days to get the
shop set up and establish a good supply of books
for our customers. What we have now is a shop Kate Sheppard Women's Bookshop
that is doing all the things we had originally
hoped for. We have a fast-growing section of Christchurch
n ao f no f i dn c - t s cl ie ae ox ss ni ss b et , ti t a ec n m sh i l aa d nm gr de a n a z t' ris ee n c rb e oio rsao d,lk s, s , c o a fw r o d wm s o, m e en np' 's o s s mtf ea ui rn c s ist c ,e .i "x o t n Ten - s si a hv ne i d r r ta sn n ,g oe n- wmca oon rt khd e l r f e s" u- .O ll lu i -Tr g th ih m es rth eei .o n p a W g r ew h e a c f ns oe u ro wrp e ee m n p e sao td r atn r no y ten er d s ,1 h w3 o t eh n J r o du ee in r d e i n on 'f t1 g 9 8 hw 2 aho v ou ew mrit h f a ore-
much business experience but we plunged in and
learnt how and where to order, and are still
learning. Ilf we were content to wait for books
Dimensions Women's Bookshop to fall into our laps several important titles
Hamilton would not have come to New Zealand. Books about
women's spirituality are our specialty.
"Our shop is co-owned and run by three "The fist shop was very small -- about 300
women, Raewyn Hosking, Dorothy Parsons, and square feet, but on 25 July 1986 a move was made
Helen McClymont, assisted by other volunteers. to a shop three times as large. Books have
We opened in November: 1985, operating from one always been taken out to conferences and work-
woman's house for a year before moving into shops, and a mail order service is carried on.
Hamilton city where we share an arcade shop with "The Kate Sheppard name seems to be more
Trade Aid. We chose the name Dimensions because trusted now. As a customer said to us a few days
it encompasses our reason for setting the shop ago, 'I used to be frightened to come into your
up -- to provide different perspectives and shop, but now I will be telling other women to
viewpoints on issues relating to women. We stock come. in." CONTINUED ON PAGE 88
Number 3 31
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsPurple Print |
Herbal
Napier
Dream Pillows
“We opened in Napier, August 1985. The shop|
is run as a cooperative business by Barb, sally |
and Marilyn and owes its existence to the many & Charm Pillows
women who have given their energy to bring the
idea to a reality. Decrepit rooms have been
transformed into a neat-feeling space and the woven of handspun,
shop has become a place for women to find out
what's happening, to meet, catch up. Wages are naturally dyed wool
s gt ei tl tl i na g f cu lt ou sr eris .t ic W ei 'd re ea df eo vr e l oa pn iy n g o f o u ru s , p ob stu at l and fine Irish linen
o wr od mer es n ' sa n gd r ow upe s d oo n s p thec ei a l E ad stis p Cla oy ass t ."for women and SPECIFY:
#1 said to"give incredible dreams"
Broadsheet, 228 Dominion Road, Mt Eden Box 56- #4 said to "aid in sleeping and yekindle enexgies"
Dimens i1 o4 n7 s, WAu omck el nan 'sd . Bookshop, NZI Arcade, Garden +0 said to aid in "acauiring knowledge, writing,
Place, Hamilton. opening closed doors" , :
Kate Sheppard Women's Bookshop, 145 Manchester +F11 said to aidin “gaining posifive relationships,
WPu or mpl ee n 'S sPt r, Pi n lC ath c e r B i s o Bt o oc kh os ku h sr o hc p oh , p . ,1 0 c8 n r H a Ts ot rin yg s S tS . t . a, n dN a p Ci oe ur r- SPE l Cov Ie F a Yff :a i rs S" UG: RETAIL $14.
tenay Place, Box 19-062, Wellington. O Red n WHOLESALE 48.50 eacH
Roses /MayeriTas muin. order 1 dozen
Purples/Lavender:, $4. SH!PPING/HANDLING
N Orange/Rust FOR EACH ORDER
a aisiais l
SASE for further information on all 1% blends
Crystal Mist V Glass Carving
PO Box 18 6 7, 1 9 G -6u 8f 9f -e 2y 2, 9 0 CO 80820 Handwoven
Bookmarks
Unique sandcarved
s bt oe xm esw , ia r ne i, t e lc ir ty ess ,t a l es t, c. 1 o0 t0 h% c bo rt it lo lin i tn or la oin rsbows, purples &
er a n c
Dancing Women Labyris and A for Amazon on veverse side of 99
bevel lid box SPECIFY: Ç oR Q9 oR mixed dozen
$45 + $3 shpg. SVG: RETAIL $ 5. eac WHOLESALE $3, eau
Specify: lavendar,
purple, blue, red, min. order 1 dozen
green or clear.
PREPAID OR C.O.D. only
Send for
who l &e s ta el re m s .prices Dotty Calabrese -226 Hamilton -Palo Alto, CA 94301
415-968-1981 FOR FURTHER INFORMATION id r
Volume 11 Number 3
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
Susan Griffin has been bian Book Award, two titles tied for first
San Fran- place: A Restricted Country by Joan Nestle
(published by Firebrand) and And the Band Played
doing benefits in local bookstores. A fund has On by Randy Shilts (published by St. Martins.)
been set up to help her medical care and basic
living expenses. Checks can be sent to A Travel-
ling Jewish Theater/Griffin Fund, PO Box 421985, The new, complete and unabridged Japanese
San Francisco CA 94142. For more information edition of the New Our Bodies, Our Selves should
contact David Shaddock at 415-525-8651 or leave be out as you read this.
a message at 415-836-1692. Tokyo phone book, I'm told.
Nicaraguan poet Christian Santos who was on the translation.
scheduled for two Bay Area readings (Modern women's bookstore, Shokadoh Booksellers,
Times and Cody's) had her visa denied at the tachiuridori, Nishinotion, Nishilru,
last minute by U.S. authorities and was not Japan.
allowed into the country.... More information
next issue.
At least three feminist bookstores cele-
brated 15th anniversaries this year: Lammas, New
Words, and A Woman's Place/Portland (OR). All
three of the bookstores celebrated with special
discount sales. The Portland store also
initiated a membership program and sold member-
ships at their party as well.
Publisher news: The latest word is that
Volcano Press will reprint Phyllis Lyon and Dell
Martin's classic Lesbian/Woman. No date set yet.
Word at the ABA from four enthusiastic young
women was that they were negotiating to buy
Shameless Hussy Press which, should the deal go
through, they will run as a collective. Mean-
while, continue ordering books from Shameless
Hussy, Box 5540, Berkeley CA 94705 and via Book-
people, Inland, etc. -3
Correction: University of Wisconsin has no
minimum requirement for orders. 40% discount on
all trade titles ordered direct or through sales
reps. Other titles get 20%, no minimum.
Congratulations! For the second time in the
seventeen year history of the SRRT Gay and Les- SEA N ER
Number 3 September 1988
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
A Volcano Press/Kazan Book
G iODDESSES
N,
$14.95 pa, 80 pp, color art, ISBN 0-912078-82-0
PA GODDESSES" button.
REVISED, 1989
in the diet. $11.95 pa, 200 pp, illustrated ISBN 0-912078-83-9
New Words is in the third issue of their new women into the store, connected women with
elegant new newsletter. Like everything New local resources, and contributes significantly
Words does, it's simple, elegant, efficient and to a sense of local community. It's an interest-
promotes women's books wonderfully well and it's ing focus at a time when many stores are trying
a perfect example of what a bookstore newsletter desperately to get "names" to attract new cus-
can be with a reásonable (rather than over- tomer to the stores. Charis also has a gorgeous
whelming) amount of effort (and access to a new mail order catalog as well as a bibliography
MacIntosh). $1.00 gets you on the mailing list of special issue books for children. Send SASE
for a year. New Words Bookstore, 186 Hampshire, and a reasonable donation for copies to Charis
Cambridge MA 02139. at 419 Moreland Ave. NE, Atlanta GA 30307.
Radiance, the quarterly magazine for large
women, Šis celebrating its fourth year in print
with a special issue on Women and Work. Begun as
a 20 page, mainly West-Coast newsletter in 1984,
Radiance is now a 58-page glossy magazine boast-
o I o00 ing a national readership of more than 140,000.
Radiance's goals are to show large women the
great amount of support and information avail-
Charis Books and More in Atlanta has been able and to encourage women to turn their atten-
doing regular Thursday night programs featuring tion to living their lives fully -- rather than
local women for the last two years. The series continuing on the unsuccessful path of dieting
has been very successful and has included local and gaining weight. For a sample copy or to
businesses, therapists, a discussion on the place a standing order, write Alice Ansfield,
politics of sign language and more. It's brought Radiance, PO Box 31703, Oakland CA 94604. ©
September 1988 Volume 11 Number 3
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
Books Wanted P Rl ia cy e,g i r Al, n n G . r Ia np th ei rc v iM ewan w | i. th the Vampire (hb, mult
V VP ROo o anl l c c sa aB on no mo ox , e , P 2 C r 7 HAe 0s i ls d9 a5 .6 8 T9 he Sacred Bee. S SR a co l hed umg le e,r n sC bR.C u) a . rG n gda .y y . G T aCa yhl k r . Pis a. renting (mult cc).
Spender S. World Within World.
Category Six Books Stanley. Coming Out Stories (mult cc).
1029 E. 11th Ave. Thorsten, G. God Herself.
Denver, CO 80218 Troubridge, U. Life and Death of Radclyffe Hall.
303-832-6263 Uliberi. My Grandmother Smoked Cigars.
PB O.K. unless specified (hb) Ullerstam, L. Erotic Minorities.
? Demystifying Homosexuality (mult. cc). Warren, C. Identity and Community in the Gay
? Sappho by the Sea (photo). World.
? Unbound Feet. Warren, Patricia. The Frontrunner (hb, mult cc).
? Sisters of Zion (pb only).
Aldyne, N. Canary (mult cc).
Anon. Gynecocracy (1971).
A Bar en to zl ,d , R .J . L eT sbh ie a n C o Co rk o s sa rn od a d st h e (m C ua ltr p e cn c)t .er. Books Offered
Barnes, Djuna. Ladies Almanac.
Behn Marc. Queen of the Night. Beebo's Books
Benjamin, H. Transexual Phenomenon. 925 Spruce St.
Berg. Get Off My Ship (2 cc). Louisville, CO 80027
Boyd, M. The Runner. 303-666-4919
Bradley, M.Z. To Keep the Oath. CWO Ppd. Returns for any reason.
Brophy, Brigid. The Prancing Novelist (hb). Atwood , e Mdar.g ar etH. TBhe , H an dVmaFid's Tailen. 1 98 6D, 1Jst $25.
Church, C. Billie Jean King.
Gage. New View of a Woman's Body. Hall, Radclyffe. Well of Loneliness. 1928, 1st.
Gilchrist, E. A Land-Surveyors Daughter. Am numbered Itd. ed. HB, lightly sunned
Gingerlox. Berrigan. spine, very slight water damage to some
Hall, R. Adams Breed (h). pages. $40.
Hamilton, David. Any By (mult. cc). Hellman, Lillian. Maybe. 1980, 1st ed. HB, fine
Herbert, J. Fortune and Men's Eyes. $20.
Herron, B. Moritz. j Hitchman, Janet. Such A Strange Lady. Biography
Howe & Bass. No More Masks. of Dorothy L.: Sayers. 1975, 1st. Am. ĝ§ ģ ed.
Jenkins & MacDonald. Growing Up Equal. HB, fine in DJ $12.
Johnson, E. In Search of God in the Sexual Lessing, Doris. The Memoirs of A Survivor. 1975,
Underworld. 1st. Am: ed. HB; VF:in DJ: $20.
Katz, Jane. | Am the Fire of Time. MacLaine, Shirley. You Can Get There From Here.
Piercy, M. Living in the Open. 1975, “1st. ed. HB, >finesin DJ=$15:
September 1988
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
Sarton, May. Faithful Are the Wounds. 1955, 1st.
Am. ed. HB, VF in DJ $20.
Simon, Linda. The Biography of Alice B. Toklas.
1977, 1st. ed. HB, VF in G DJ $20.
Weldon, Fay. Female Friends. 1975, 1st. ed. HB,
VEs in DJ; $20. Praxis. 1978,. 1st. ed. HB, VF | V C S
in DJ $20.
HERE'S HOW IT WORKS Mac by John Maclean/Houghton Mifflin has
If there are books that you/your cus- published a book ($13.95 hardcover) for children
tomers are looking for, send your name, in grades 7 and up which tells the story of a
address, and authors and titles (and any high school sophomore named Mac who is sexually
particulars -- HB only, Multiple copies want- assaulted by a doctor during a physical exam.
ed, PB O.K. unless specified HB, etc.) to The book follows Mac from secrecy and shame to
FBN/Books Wanted. We'll run your list in the counseling and healing. Booklist gave this book
next issue. Store name & address count as two on a very sensitive subject a starred review.
lines. Each book listing counts as a separate Jane Troxel
line (48 characters/line/max.) 60¢/line. Pay- Lambda Rising Book Report
ment is due with the listings.
Your customers are welcome to list Ursula LeGuin has done it again. This time
titles if you don't want to track their re- with a children's book that I| fell in love with
quests. as soon as | started reading it. A Visit from
Dr. Katz (Atheneum, 0-689-31332-2, $12.95 cl) is
To Respond to Listings: The simplest way the story of Marianne, a girl sick in bed with
to respond is to send a card or postcard the flu, and her two cats who keep her company.
specifying the book you'd like to sell, your The large color illustrations on each page (by
name and address, the book's condition and Ann Barrow) combine with the words to bring both
the price you'll sell it for. (Include post- Marianne and her playful cats to life. It's a
age in the price.) It's traditional to offer joy to read again and again.
to hold the book for 2-4 weeks. If the book- Lorena Boswell
store wants to buy your copy, they'll send FBN
you a check and you send the book by return
post. One of the biggest sellers at our annual
To: ListBooks. Wanted or Offered#in#FBN: sale was not a book, but singer and song-writer
Mark all listings "Wanted" or "Offered" so Tracy Chapman's long-awaited and eagerly-
yth oa ut r t nh ae my e e n and d u ap d d i rn e s st h (e c o uri ng th st a ss e c tt wio on . l iL ni es st ), a wnt ei rci ep a te nd o tf i r vst e ra ylb u m p. a tA il et nho tu g h in h e wr am ita in ny g f a fns or this to
author, title, and particulars for each finally be released, we are all well rewarded by
title. (Each title counts as a separate line. the quality and excitement of this album. Tracy
s4 p8 a c s ep s a c te os dp ee sr c r l ii bn ee . a I f b o y okou , in t e e cd o u nm to sr e a s t h ta wn o 48 C LPh a p ($m 9a .9n 5, ) , o n ta p t eh : e ( $E 9l .e 9k 5)t ,r a a nl dab e Cl, D . i s ( $ 1av 8.a 9i 5la )b .le on
lines.) 60¢/line. Payment is due with your New Words
listings.
If you don't want to go the the hassle
of keeping track of which of your customers
want what titles (there are those book-
sellers who thrive by offering book search
services and those who hate the detail
mightily....), please feel free to suggest to
youtr chustomeersm that stheye rlun v a. leistinsg .in FB NO
September 1988 a Volume 11 Number 3
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
Yes, that lovely rumor that Carol Levin and Two Sisters, after much planning, opened on
Sally Owen have succeeded in raising the money June 18th, while many of us were celebrating
they need to open Judith's Room in mew York City feminist books and booking at the Third Interna-
is definitely true. They're in the midst of tional reminist Book air in Montreal. Their
negotiating a lease as | write this and still address is 605 Cambridge Ave., Menlo Park CA
have hopes of opening vefore Christmas. 94025. Phone: 415-323-4778. Congratulations to
Suzanne Jay Unger and Betsy Jay Warner! They
More New bookstores: opened with an Ibid computer system.
Visions and Voices is the first women's Christina Sage is planning to open a book-
bookstore to be located in Providence RI. The store in Memphis Tennessee. Send her information
store will be open Wednesday through Sunday, at PO Box 11778, Memphis TN 38111-0778.
grand opening will be September 10th. Send
information and catalogs to Lynn and Carolyn at F [y
V&V, 255 Harris Ave., Providence RI 02909.
Book Connections is a new Austin, Texas- S
based mail-order bookstore. They are targeting
their sales primarily to lesbians who do not
have easy access to lesbian and gay literature
and bookstores and should have their first sales
literature and ads out in September. Send book Lynn M. Pina is opening a bookstore in
and bookseller information to Betty A. Prioux, Pawtucket, Rhode Island. Send her information at‘
Book Connections, Suite 110, PO Box 9700, Austin 152 Tobie Ave., 02861.
TX 78766-9700. (iNew mailing address since last Weaved Words will be a general bookstore
issue, please change your records.) Phone: 512- with large feminist, lesbian and gay men's lit-
385-4527. erature sections. Alberta Moses and Terry Ames
plan to open in the spring of 1989 in San Jose,
CA. Send them information at 3439 Pine Creek, CA
SO Su ISth tee rr sn 9 S51 m32. G r Ban ud nBo eo sk ss Lin aJ nac k (s so en W ey lo sm ewing g ro et t ih ne ir
all s i o e h e this is-
anme. sue) as a general bookstore and opened on May
28th. They're at 970 W. Broadway. Send mail to
Southern Sisters, Inc. opened in Durham on PO Box 20257, Jackson WY 83001. The proud owners
August 8th! Send them catalogs and information are Jackie Sparks, Dorothy Holland, Bette Morgan
at 411 Morris St., Durham NC 27701. Phone: 919- and Pat McCloskey.
682-0739. Drey Rallo will be starting a bookstore
Curious Times is open and things are going later this year and would like to see catalogs.
great! The storefront (and permanent address) is Send info to RR #2, Chelmsford, Ontario, POM
4UU8 D. Cedar Springs, Dallas TX 75219. Phone: 1L0, Canada. Phone is 705-855-2034.
' 214-528-40870 Rob Gorsline is opening Rising Tide Books,
Number 3 September 1988
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
a feminist/alternative bookshop for folks who at local festivals and camp-outs. They will ,
can't find themselves or books about themselves carry books, t-shirts, jewelry, notecards and
in mainstream bookstores: feminist women and some crystals.
men, lesbians/gays, peace activists, environmen-
talists, Third World folks, 12-step recoverers,
etc. Send Rob information at PO Box 135, rank- Bad News:
lin Mc 04634. The Athena Book express, a mail order femi-
Last minute addition: Bright Pink Litera- nist bookstore, has closed. They sold their
ture is an oasis in the Nevada desert. Rob stock and mailing lists to Common Woman.
Schlegel has been selling gay, feminist and
lesbian books in Las Vegas for nine months now. Periodicals and Publishers Move, Too
Thanks to Lioness Bookstore for passing a copy Hot Wire's new address is 5210 N. Wayne,
of FBN on to him. Send him info at 4640 Paradise Chicago, IL 60640.
Road Suite 10, Las Vegas INV 89109. Phone: 702- Biblio Press, "The Jewish Women's Pub-
737-7780. : lisher", has moved to Manhattan. Their new of-
fice is at 27 West 20th St., Room 1001, New York
NY 10011. Phone: 212-603-9525. Mail orders
should be sent to PO Box 20703, London Terr.
Sta., NY NY 10011. Biblio will be publishing Be-
fore Golda: Manya Shochat by Rachel Yanait Ben-
Zvi, a biography of the woman who started Eretz
Isreal, the first collective in 1907. $12.95 pb,
New Addresses: December/January 1989.
The Alaska Women's Bookstore's new address
5 9i is n6 9 2 5 - 02 S4 34 u7 .4 i10 t 6 W e . )T o J u rT ,d d ho er a oy n n dR wd tp. e h rr ei# e o r 3 gp 0 r r4 ate, po v e i vA o t iu hn ns ac el th y o ir w sa a e tg tr e h e t a h A toa K n t t h a W9 ed9 d . 5 nr0 9 ee7 ws t s h ( ,907- D bi ost or kib s u At i ato rn t i e c N e aw P ts r : e bs os t h(t h Ie n l aI nr dis h ( 8 f 00em -2i 4n 3i -s 0t 1 3p 8r ) e s as n) d
s cw a Ot on koo mdn lr ape d h w le oeri i t ms s lH Wel , . a e ol r ra p mTl Cr ea a hg o ir an tp ee nk d yir e si r n, n l iS g n O nil ! eas Ko e sto w ek B r 7 ss o 3o a o 1oR d kg 1n der s2 s re .o eaa hu sst as r, s c t ea i hs sn me d ob 2 vr 3oh e e1u n da 2gs o h , v tt N a o w t W ia o o 7 n n 1 b 3d s 1u 9 e i tr al Rh d r i,eio cnf hg mond B nt e a w wo u dh co m i oc ek t uo bip har u lee t dor o n s u p tU l tMe ni n. S o fo( w 8 . tn ot 0 h hr0 t d e- r bii2 i r ce2 es h h7 a t a- a l r d1 l f i5 f f i b1 ti ne6 nu h ) m a o. t a n t fo t iW h c r ne i e s i atU s ll h f ta l.a s S yo e tnr . i g pr d io vus a t s n ibu t at et d lo bo .o i t s l l aWl ehi C- ln .i ef ac n l r n b Pu gle ed a o r aee d o r o in i k m na-p n o h s tlo a r esn l ea e e ll s tae , hns od se
St., London Ontario N6A 3H1. Womansline was Attic Press books!
previously at 209 John Street, N6A 1N9.
Peralandra Books in Eugene, Oregon has
moved to 1016 Willamette St. (97401)
New Names:
Good Goods has changed its name to The
Crystal Works. Address is 301 North Street,
Pittsfield MA 01201. ne Books.
Oops! FBN misread someone's handwriting and
renamed the Mystic Moon in Metairie Louisiana The most exciting news this issue is that
the Mystic Loon. They said they liked it and The Women's Press/London is signed on with In-
actually considered changing the name, but land. (See article elsewhere in this issue for
stayed with the Moon. (We wondered how it was details.)
that Loons were nesting in Louisiana....) The Inlanú will also have books from The New
Mystic Moon is looking at a fall opening. They Women's Press in New Zealand by the time you
are currently doing mail order and selling books CONTINUED ON PAGE 88
September 1988 Volume 11 Number 3
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
WRITING WAN LED
Cleis Press is seeking submissions for two Plain View Press is reading manuscripts for
anthologies: Short fiction and other forms of Dance in the Sun: An Anthology of Southwest
creative prose for a multicultural anthology of Women Writers, the first culturally diverse
creative writing on Women & Their Sisters. Send collection of literary work by women in/from the
SASE for complete information to Paula Martinac, southwest. Poetry, short fiction, letters, art,
Editor, PO Box 6625, Yorkville Finance Station, journal, experimental writing. Not necessarily
NY NY 10128. regional matter, more interested in women's
Frederique Delacoste (Sex Work co-editor) subject matter. Deadline: immediately! Plain
wants contributions for an anthology document- View Press, PO Box 33311, Austin TX 78764.
ing and exploring the concept of sexual outlaws.
Bisexual women, transsexual women, nonmonogamous
women, sex workers, celibate women, lesbians,
s/m women, 'promiscuous'" women, women who buy
s vex ie, w p a ss ti hng e m w so em le vn e s a n d a s o t lh ie vr i n w go /m te hn i nw kho in g ge n e or ual tly side of Writings by bisexual feminists, including
t th he e ip rr e sc pr aib re td i c s ue lx au ral b ce oh mav mior us n a in td i e sat t i at rud ee s i nof vited to b pu ot l in to ict a lli m ii dte ed n. tt io t y t h o ase n dw h aos ce t im via tin y c u il st u r wal/ ithin the
c So An St Er i b fu ot re cf oi mct pio len t e a n ind f on ro mn af ti ic ot nio n t o p r Fo rs ee d. e rS ie qn ud e fle es mbi ia nn i/ stg sa y w hco om se m pu rn ii mty ar ya n d id ew ntr ii tt ii en sg s a r b e y w t ith ho is ne
FD re ala nc co is st ce o, CE Adi t 9or 41, 1 4C .l e i Ds e aW dlie nst e, : NPO ov eB mox b e r1 4 6 18 , 4 , 1 9 S 8a 8n . o wKt a hh a ie h cr hu m c wao nm ilu lm ru an en fdi lt ei ce L ts o, r taa i hr n ee e gb H re u oin t wcg ih n i gnc o s l vl e ifc so it bre id l ia t nb y y a on fL t a h n toi hlo egy
bisexual community. All ages, classes, races,
cultures, religions, people of color, other
minorities and the differently-abled are encour-
aged to respond. Essays, prose, articles, inter-
views and poetry will be considered. Write to
In Contrast, There Is Living will be an Lani Kaahumanu at 20 Cumberland, San Francisco
anthology by and about women recovering from CA 94110 and Loraine Hutchins at 1113 Fairmont
self-mutilation documenting the experiences of NW, Washington DC 20009 for more information.
formerly self-mutilating women, focusing on the Deadline: Oct 15, 1988.
recovery process and on recovering women's
understandings of how they learned that self- Explicit lesbian sexual fiction sought for
destruction was an appropriate way of handling anthology to be published by Lace Publications.
pressure or crisis. The overall tone of the book Stories should be typed, double-spaced; nothing
will be celebrating survival. The book will be is too wild or too tame! Authors will receive a
published by HerBooks. Send letters, essays, percentage of profits after expenses are met.
poetry and visual art to Sarah Hope/HerBooks, PO Send inquiries and submissions with SASE to Book
Bo1x 9 74867,8 S.a nt a D Creuz a CdA l95i0n61 e by: N ovOemcbetr o1, b Preojerct, c/3o 1PO, Bo x 1 1590081, 8 Sa.nt a ROosa CA 95402.
Volume 11 Number 3 September 1988
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
Bold Print $8.95); Leave a Light on For Me by Jean Swallow
Winnipeg, Manitoba (Spinsters/Aunt Lute, $8.95); When You're Ready
April 1988 by Kathy Evert (Launch, $9.95); Yellowthroat by
1 The Dance of Anger, H. G. Lerner. Penny Hayes (Naiad, $8.95); and, Dreams of the
2 Women and Self-Esteem, Linda Tschirhart Woman Who Loved Sex by T. Corinne (Banned Books,
Sanford & Mary Ellen Donovan. $7.95).
3 A Passion for Friends, Janice G. Raymond.
A Going Out of Our Minds, Sonia Johnson.
5 Incest & Sexuality, Wendy Maltz & Beverly
Ho Iman.
Creative Visualization, Shakti Gawain.
Lesbian Passion, JoAnn Loulan.
Motherwit, Diane Mariechild.
© v N The Promise of a New Day, Karen Casey &
Martha Vanceburg.
10 Woman on the Edge of Time, Marge Piercy.
Hardcover Bestsellers:
New Words Topping the list was After the Stroke, the
Cambridge, Massachusetts latest of May Sarton's journals. Cloth, $16.95.
Birthday Sale Hit Parade This journal is about her struggle to regain her
A variation in themes for a bestsellers health after suffering a stoke at age 73. A
list: This is New Words' list of bestsellers poetic and valiant account of a woman with cour-
from their 15th anniversary sale. age and stamina. A close second was Beloved, by
Toni Morrison; Morrison won the Pulizer Prize
Feminist Press Paperback Bestsellers: for this addition to her impressive body of
Lesbian Passion by Joann Loulan. This book work. This continues to sell even though it was
sold the greatest number of copies in all cat- published months ago. $18.95. Mama Day by Gloria
egories. Spinsters/Aunt Lute, $10.95. Lessons in Naylor was next on the list. This is the latest
Murder by C. McNab, just out of the carton from work of fiction by the author of Linden Hills
the publisher, was the second highest overall and The Women of Brewster Place. $16.95.
title. Naiad, $8.95. Cows and Horses by Barbara
Wilson, also just arrived, was number four on Paperback Bestsellers:
the most-copies-sold list. Eighth Mountain Non-fiction works took the largest share on
Press, $7.95. Secret in the Bird by Camarin this part of the list. In order of number of
Grae, her new title, was next on the feminist copies sold: Incest and Sexuality: A Guide to
press list; another by Naiad, $8.95. When I Am Understanding and Healing by Wendy Maltz and
an Old Woman I Shall Wear Purple by S. Martz Beverly Holman. This is a book for incest survi-
(Papier Mache Press, $10.00) was followed vors and their partners to help them cope with
closely by: Memory Board by Jane Rule (Naiad, the sexual after-effects of incest. $12.95.
$8.95); Shoulders by G. Cotrell (Firebrand, Ourselves Growing Older, edited by Paula Brown
$8.95); Cherished Love by E. Kennedy (Naiad, Doress, et al. In the tradition of Our Bodies
E
September 1988
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
Ourselves and Changing Bodies, Changing Lives, The Long Trail, Hayes.
this volume has a wealth of information and en- Thomas' Snowsuit, Munsch.
couragement to help us challenge myths about Jody:
aging, and it provides help to cope with the Things That Divide Us, Conlon et al.
changes we encounter as we grow older. $15.95. Herland; Gilman,
Lcehsobilaong iPessy cChoollolgeicest i vbey. tTheh iBs o sttointl e L e shbaiasn bPesyen- Y seelllo-w :Wallpaper Gilman:
ling well since it appeared last summer. $12.95. Theresa:
Of Love and Shadows by Isabelle Allende, and Kinds of Love, Sarton.
just out in paperback, topped the fiction list The Lady & Her Tiger, Derby.
in the non-feminist-press category. House of the Reindeer Moon, Thomas.
Spirits, her first novel, also appeared among
the top sellers. $4.95. When Rocks Dance, by E. June Bestsellers List
Nunez -Harrell, a recently released novel set in FICTION
Trinidad, was the second best-selling mass 1 Sunday's Child, Bright.
market book. $3.95. Handmaid's Tale by Margaret 2 Osten's Bay, Vole.
Atwood ($4.95) was closely followed by House- 3 Cows & Horses, Wilson.
keeping, by Marilyn Robinson, ($3.95). 4 Lessons in Murder, McNab.
5 Curious Wine, Forrest.
6 Dreams & Swords, Forrest.
Lioness Books 7 Emergence of Green, Forrest.
Sacramento, CA 8 Choices, Toder.
9 Miss Venezuela, Wilson.
Every month each staff member chooses her 10 Bitter Medicine 0, Paretsky.
thtrehe efamvorit e DaOlORoS n fogr th es midonteh a d,o wfe p ostt hNOeN- F ICbTIOeNst seller list. The
b o;ok s s,he ch2oo se s Lneeed s nbot i bae nrec en tlPy apusb-s ;i oCodnep,en de nLt Noo u Mlorae, n Be.attie.
lished; they just have to Be ones she would 3 Lesbian Couples, Clunis & Green.
recommend. We have found this 8o. be a good way 4 Going Out of Our Minds, Johnson.
to alert customers to books we like. 5 Courage to Heal, Bass & Davis.
seresa Corrigen 6 Before Stonewall, Weiss & Schiller.
7 Coupleship, Wegscheider-Cruse.
8 The Crone, Walker.
Yvette: May Staff Favorites List 9 How to Be a Couple & Still Be Free, Tessina &
Something Under the Bed is Drooling, Waterson. Sm 1it 0h. Love You Forever, Munsch. ©
Bitter Medicine, Paretsky.
She's On First, Gregorich.
Emi ly:
The Dispossessed, LeGuin.
Living My Life, Goldman.
The Hundredth Monkey, Keyes.
Theresa:
Three Ply Yarn, March.
Queen of Swords, Grahn.
Living by the Word, Walker.
Yvette :J u neI nStatffe Fravnoriatets iLiostnal Women 3 Tribune Centre
Women of Brewster Place, Naylor.
Volume 11 Number 3 s CSWS: S Post Nairobi
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
By Joni Seager Latin America, written not by members of the
New Words literati but by peasant and working class women.
We've all had our global consciousness FDo rn o't m B e t hAf er a i Hd e G arri tn g o (: F oA o d H o n Fd iu rr sa tn W Ino sm ta in t u S tp ee ,a k s 1987,
raised by the feminist organizing around the UN $9.95, paper, 0-935028-24-2) is the story of
Decade for Women (1975-1985). About a year-and- Elvia Alvarado, a peasant woman who has become a
a-half ago, New Words put its consciousness on leader for land reform and peasant rights in
the shelf, as it were: we consolidated inter- Honduras. Elvia is a courageous spokesperson
national non-fiction literature into a separate against the militarization of Honduras, (for
section, followed a few months later by an In- which she has been repeatedly jailed and tor-
t aner n ea nt tio irn ea l w F ai lc lt i oo fn ts hec et i o stn o. r eN o dw e v ot th ee dr e ' ts o a il nm to es rt - t wu or re dd s) ., Aan lvd a r i an d o 'G s r i bn og oo k t be rli is n g h s e r t o s t mor iny d i n an oh te hr e r own
national women's writings, and it's exhilarating book which is now a classic: l...Rigoberta Men-
to see what a large (and growing) collection chu (Schocken, 1985, $8.95, paper, 0-8052-7191-
this comprises. Both the fiction and non-fiction
sections are subdivided by country and/or re- the story of her life offers insight into the
gion. Customer response has been fantastic, and life of migrant workers, the struggle for land
sales from this section have grown substantially and political rights, and the complexity of
now that it is so accessible and visible in the Central American politics. A much earlier (and
store -- although, as with all changes in book- less well-known) oral history of a peasant wom-
store design and display, it did take a while an's life in Latin America is Let Me Speak!
for customers to get used to the new section. (Monthly Review Press, $7.50, paper, 0-85345-
close- uIn ps t whi is t h c o dlu ism cun s, s i oI n| s w oil fl a fl ot re er in ga nt e w r oe mgi eo nn 'sal 4 L8 et5 - X M). e A Sl pt eh ao ku g rh e m p au ib nl si s h oe nd e a ol fm o ts ht e t fen ew y bea or os k s a g ao v, ail-
presses and journals and how to get global femi- able about and by women in Bolivia. Let Me Speak
nist literature into North American bookstores. tells the story of Domitila Barrios de Chungara,
A survey of writing on Latin America seemed an the wife of a tin miner, who (like Elvia Alvara-
appropriate place to begin, contemporary Ameri- do) becomes a major political organizer and
can politics being as they are. spokesperson for peasant rights and improved
conditions for miners.
Voices from Latin America
The peculiarities of Central American poli-
Brutal regimes in Chile, Paraguay, Guate- tics have given rise to a new genre of political
mala, and (until recently) Argentina, and war literature: the 'progressive-American-in-Nicara-
conditions in Nicaragua and El Salvador discour- gua' story. Two feminist press books, published
age writing and publication; on top of this, few months apart, represent the best of this litera-
women writers attract enough attention to be ture. In Letters From Nicaragua (Spinsters/Aunt
translated into English. Givén these obstacles, Lute, 1986, $7.95, paper, 0-933216-22x), Rebecca
it is surprising that there are now several Gordon tells the story of her eight months in
excellent first-person accounts of daily life in Nicaragua as a Witness for Peace, through let-
September 1988 Volume 11
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
ters she wrote to friends and family. Judith
McDaniel, a member of a 1985 Witness for Peace
delegation to Nicaragua, describes her experi-
ences, (which include being held captive by
contras), through poetry and prose in Sanctuary
(Firebrand, 1987, $7.95, paper, 0-932379-23-0).
First-hand accounts of the Central American
wars by Central-American women are more diffi-
cult to come by. Two books stand out: in They
Won't Take Me Alive, (Women's Press/London,
1987, $10.95, paper, 0-7043-4028-3), Claribel
Alegria recounts the life and death of Commander
Eugenia, a fighter with the Salvadorean guer-
illas. Through Margaret Randall's book, Sandi-
no's Daughters (New Star Books, 1981, $9.95,
paper, 0-919888-33-X) Sandinista women tell
their stories of armed struggle in Nicaragua
against the Somoza regime.
Women's writing from Latin America traces a
geography of sadness. This is especially appar-
ent in the writings of women in exile. In You
Can't Drown the Fire (Cleis Press, 1988, $9.95,
paper, 0-939416-17-4), edited by Alicia Partnoy,
thirty-five women (including Rigoberta Menchu
and Domitila Barrio, mentioned above) write with
anger and passion of the war, torture, loss, and ait in November.
alienation that fills their daily lives in Latin * Distributed by inland
America. Some of these women are in literal
exile, others in "internal exile" -- all have
amazing stories to be heard. This collection women writers -- just off the press -- is from
includes fiction, non-fiction narratives, and Wayne State University Press: Women's Fiction
poetry. Another anthology of Latin American from Latin America: Selections from 12 Contem-
porary Authors, edited by Evelyn Picon Garfield
(1988, $13.95, paper, 0-8143-1859-2). There is
surprisingly little overlap in authors between
these two anthologies; the Wayne State collec-
tion includes more well-know writers of fiction,
such as Clarice Lispector and Isabel Allende,
while the Cleis Press anthology includes more
explicitly political writing. Another book that
combines art and politics in a gripping narra-
tive is Scraps of Life: Chilean Women and the
Pinochet Dictatorship (Red Sea Press,* 1987,
$9.95, paper, 0-932415-29-6). The author, Mar-
jorie Agosin, is a Chilean ex-patriate who tellis
the story of Chilean women through the story of
their arpilleras, the distinctive political
tapestries made in "silent resistance" against
the dictatorship that has gripped Chile since
1973.
Two collections of Latin American women's
Volume 11 Number 3 43 September 1988
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
West End Press
Ana Castillo
MY FATHER WAS A TOLTEC
In this, her fullest collection of poetry in both English and
Spanish, Castillo invokes her origin as the daughter of a
street warrior, and carries her own fight into adulthood,
dwheiref asf a e Chricanea n femcineist . s he dpefinoes e hetr rturyf w it h aare recent additions to the literature
ISBN 0-931122-40-6 available in translation: Woman Who Has Sprouted
76 pp. $6.95 Wings edited by Mary Crow (Second Edition, Latin
American Literary Review Press,** 1988, $13.95
Paula Gunn Allen paper, 0-935480-35-8), and Ixok Amar Go: Central
American Women's Poetry for Peace edited by Zoe
SKINS AND BONES : Anglesey (Granite Press, 1987, $15.95, paper, 0-
PPuoeeblmo-sSi o ucxo-lLleebcanteesde- S cfortso m wr i t1e9r 7 w9-h1o 9 i8s 7 al soof t hteh aiust h morajor Laguna 9614886-3-8). Both are bilingual collections,
o oof ff s Ji ox c h r no t i h t Le i er nc ni v s oo nml .um . e s I n o cf l upo det er sy , ao n e l on nov gel a mnd e mtw oo r w iaor lk s ode on the death w mo auni it g dh h it f e E na n bc cg ei el ni ,s agh lr e s a a upn d cd ya h g S fep as ama ;n s ii ls ib h a Cro ltv athe ror is bi aio enn lNs c ol ruo Atf d h l ee e g a A c rmsh io e a m rp i o c aee am nn dp o e Vt is o l ew taho
ISBN 0-931122-50-3 Parra, but the majority of poets are new voices
80 pp. $6.95 — September forus.
When it comes to children's books, the
Cherrie Moraga "Fifth World Tales" series from Children's Book
GIVING UP THE GHOST Press** is the major resource for Latin American
“Haunting encounter that asks us as women to face the stories in translation. This bilingual series
unforgettable?” —Angela Y. Davis presents myths and legends, in brightly illus-
ISBN 0-931122-43-0 trated picture books, from Spanish speaking
64 pp. $5.95 cultures around the world. Land of the Icy
Death, for example, is from Ohile; The Invisible
Luci Tapahonso ` | Hunters from Nicaragua; The Magic Boys from
A BREEZE SWEPT THROUGH _ Guatemala. There are two drawbacks to this se-
“Luci Tapahonso’s voice is strong among the women who ries: the first is that the tales, while "al-
speak, now, for Native America?” —Margaret Randall ternative" and "progressive", are not neces-
sarily feminist, nor are women or girl char-
ISBN 0-931122-45-7 acters prominent in many of the stories; second-
52 pp. $5.95 ly, these books are expensive -- many are avail-
Christina Pacosz able only in cloth editions for $10.95. But
these are among the few bilingual and Latin
THIS IS NOT A PLACE TO SING s American children's books available, and are
“In spite of the admonishment and the nightmare of Polish very popular with a range of readers.
history, Pacosz makes a triumphant so neg” Doubiago
Sharon Doubiag Joni Seager is a Canadian, and a feminist
ISBN 0-931122-47-3 geographer. In 1986, she published Women in the
48 pp. $4.95 World: An international Atlas (in the U.S.,
a d published by Simon & Schuster), and she is cur-
ORDER FROM: Publishers Services, rently working on a manuscript on feminism and
P.O. Box 2510, Novato, CA 94948 global ecology, under contract to Pandora Press
l. (EBngolaondk).s tShoe r reec e nCtlyo l jloeincedt itvhee .N e wO Words
September 1988 44 Volume 11 Number 3
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
= ART BOOKS
ART bBOOKS: NEW AND STILL IN PRINT Visibly Female, Feminism and Art Today, ed.
by Hilary Robinson, is an excellent collection
by Tee Corinne of essays from the (mostly British) women's art
press. |t includes provocative studies of racial
Gallerie is an exciting new publication issues, lesbian images, commodification, em-
about women and art. Three times a year they'll powerment, Monica Sjoo, Judy Chicago, sexual
produce a magazine. Once a year they'll produce imagery and much, much more. Published by Uni-
an Annual which can be ordered year round. | saw verse Books, trade paper: 0-87663-540-0, $15.95.
the 1988 Gallerie Annual and was very impressed Japanese Women Artists 1600-1900 by Patri-
with its fine collection of images, statements cia Fister is a lovely book, reasonably priced
by and about artists, and writings by verbal and intelligently organized. It includes images
artists like Judy Grahn and Bettina Aptheker. of the artists, biographical information, exam-
Published by Gallerie Publications, 2901 Pano- ples of their work and historical narratives
rama Drive, North Vancouver, B.C. V7G 2A4, Cana- tying the whole together. Published by the Spen-_
d6a; la rgce o pappeyr: 0- 96m9336i1-n0-1i,m $12u.00m, 40.% w0ith- c0er6 M-u4seu3m0 o1f 8Ar1t -an8d , H ar p$er1 &6 R.o9w,5 l.arge paper:
The Hopi Photographs: Kate Cory: 1905-1912
by Wright, Gaede and Gaede contains fascinating,
: < beautiful images by Cory (1561-1958) who never
married and who became one of the few outsiders
: allowed to photograpiı Hopi Indian life in Arizo-
WOMEN’S ART Press, large n a. pruablpisheedr :b y 0th-e 8 U2ni6ve3rsi-ty1 0of5 N9e-w1 M,e x ic$o19.95;
E s cloth: 0-8263-1058-3, $35.00.
The Art of the Woman: The Life and Work of
Elisabet Ney, by tmily rFourmy Cutrer is a highly
readable biography of the German born sculptor
(1833-1907) who spent her later years in Texas.
Ney's work is realistic, figurative and impres-
sive - as full of drama as her life was. Pub-
lished by the University of Nebraska Press,
cloth: 0-8032-1438-3, $24.95.
Marble Dust: The Life of Elisabet Ney by
Marjory Goar is a compelling, fictionalized ac-
count of Ney's fascinating, adventurous life and
the remarkable sculpture she produced. Published
by iakin Press, P.O.D.. 23069, Austin, 1X 78735;
AV j Struggle to be Borne c lo tbh: y 0 -8 9K01i5-r4a30 - 9,C $o1r6.9s5e.r and
45 WOMEN ARTISTS INCLUDING JUDY Fran Adler is a finely crafted book of photos
CHICAGO, SUE COE, SHARRON ZENITH and poems focusing on the plight of low-income
CORNE, THE GUERRILLA GIRLS, HELEN and uninsured mothers, a book to cry your way
LUCAS, SUSAN POINT,AND NANCY SPERO. through and then go out and try to change the
ARTICLES ON WOMEN’S CULTURE BY world. Published by the San Diego State Univer-
BETTINA APTHEKER AND JUDY GRAHN. sity Press, large paper, 0-916304-84-1, $10.00.
Volume 11 Number 3 45 September 1988
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
5t0h% e driescaofuntte ru.n t icl l eenadr o fa nAudg u spt.e r40s%o n faorb l2e+. B ruronus.r tBuerenns' imofag e st hofe t h5e 0 a r taisrtst i asrtes warm,
Four books with words by Rusty Berkus (a are women. There's a broad spectrum of race and
woman) and illustrations by Christa Wollan make aye as well as style of work shown. Large paper:
wonderful gifts for oneself or someone else: 0-87701-289-x, $16.95.
Life is a Gift, 0-9609888-0-7, $13.95; Soul-
prints, 0-9609888-3-1, $16.95; To Heal Again, 0- Committed to Print: Social and Political
9609888-2-3, $13.95 and Appearances, 0-9609888- Themes in Recent American Printed Art by Deborah
1-5, $13.95. They are magically, vibrantly col- Wye contains about two fifths work by women.
ored illustrations and inspiring texts. Pub- Chapters deal with race/culture, gender, nuclear
lished by Red Rose rress, P.O.B. 24 Encino CA power/ecology, war/revolution and so on. It is a
94126, large. paper. Also available: ate Book- good book about how the mainstream looks at
people. inland and Siner malor distributors. political art. Published by the Museum of Modern
, Art, NYC, large paper: 0-87070-299-8, $9.95.
AIDS: You Can't Catch It Holding Hands by
Niki de Saint rhalle is a book about AIDS for
kids by an artist who has always been in the
forefront of those dealing with sexual issues in
art. The illustrations are endearing, the in-
formation clear and straightforward. It's writ-
ten in the form of a letter from a mother to her
son. Published by The Lapis rress, 1850 Union
Street, Suite 466, San rrancisco, CA 94123;
cloth: 0-932499-52-x, $6.95.
The Enduring Navaho by Laura Gilpin (1917-
1979) is a record of over 30 years spent photo-
graphing the Navaho lands and people in the
southwest and gathering material for the text.
This book is a classic, beautiful and informa-
tive. Published by the Amon Carter Museum, dist.
by the University of Texas Press, large paper:
0-292-72058-0, $29.95, cloth: 0-292-78378-7,
$47.50.
Women of Consequence by Jane Bown is a book
Okuhara Seiko in Jo iapnfanegs e W po miehnn Aor tits tso t:g hr e a p mhs id -b 1y 9 4 0a ' s w ao nm d a n w hw o h o w ob re kg ea dn fp oh ro t mog ar na yph-
Three Dimensional Design by Katie Pasquini years for The Observer in London. Included are
may look like a science book but is really about Elizabeth Bowen, Dame Edith Sitwell, Vita Sack-
quilt designs. The quilts pictured are quite ville-West, Josephine Baker, The Royals, movie
ftaobu l oouts h anedr t haer tpirsintcsip l eas s d iswcuessleld. arPeu ubsleifsuhl estdar s ,b yda n cCer s: &an d .T m o|r e ` -< I lo v:e l y:, candid
Publishing, P.O.B. 1456, Lafayette, CA 94549; images. rublished by Universe Books, dist. by
large paper: 0-914881-19-1, $13.95. St. Martin's, cloth: 0-87663-652-0, $22.50.
1 Shock Myself: The Autobiography of More Than Meat Joy by Carolee Schneemann is
Beatrice Wood is a collage of memories by a fas- about a veteran (and controversial) performance
cinating and unconventional woman (b. ca. 1894) artist. It is rich with documentation (1962-
who was lovers with Marcel Duchamp, a friend of 1978), critics commentaries and Schneemann's own
Alan Watts, a follower of Krishnamurti and who essays on performance, sexuality and feminism -
achieved international fame as a potter. The poetic and visceral at the same time. Published
bseorovka t iiosn sf.i l lPeudb lwisihtehd pbhyo t oCghrraopnhisc l ea n Bdo oskhsa,r pl a rogbe- YbEy SDO C tUeMxtE N [MtSEXPtR > & (M GC6F),h e drissotn SOm:)a,l i dist. by- Sma
paper: 0-87701-498-1, $16.95. Dist. in Canada by Press Distribution, Writers & Books, Printed
Raincoast Books, 112 E. Third Ave., Vancouver, Matter and ARTCOM, cloth: 0-914232-16-9, $24.
B.C. V5T1C8. Good news: The University of Washington
Also from Chronicle Books is 50 Northwest Press plans to reprint The Art of Emily Carr by
Artists by Bruce Guenther with photos by Marsha Doris Shadbolt in a paper edition!!! O
September 1988 46 Volume 11 Number 3
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
<S
It's a long column this month, so I'll note only ARBOR HOUSE
briefly some highlights from my recent reading. She Who Remembers, by Linda Lay Shuler,
Patricia A. MckKillip's Fool's Run (Popular Lib- $18.95, 7/88. "An attempt to do for North Ameri-
rary, $3.95) is an absorbing story of music, can natives what Jean Auel did for the Clan of
madness, authority, and resistance. At the cen- the Cave Bear" (Locus), featuring a young woman
ter is a young woman who killed 1,500 people in cast out by the Anasazi because of her blue eyes
response to a vision and was imprisoned in a and taken in by another tribe, where it becomes
super-maximum security prison satellite. her mission to teach women's mysteries to the
The Reindeer People by Megan Lindholm (Ace, girls.
$3.50) is a persuasive re-creation of prehis- AVON BOOKS
toric times, with a complex, unsentimental per- Still Forms on Foxfield, by Joan Slonczew-
spective on being different. The different one ski, price n/a, 12/88. Years ago an antiwar-
in this case is a young boy with shamanic gifts, activist friend recommended this as "Quaker sf,"
and the main protagonist is Tillu, his mother, a but it was already out of print and |l've still
healer who lives apart from others in order never seen a copy. Slonczewski went on to write
protect her strange and unpopular son. A sequel, the marvelous, feminist A Door into Ocean.
Wolf's Brother, will be out later this year.
Kara Dalkey's The Nightingale (Ace, $16.95) BANTAM (SPECTRA)
is part of Ace's series of fantasy retellings of Daughter of the Empire, by Raymond E. Feist
fairy tales from diverse cultures. This one and Janny Wurts, $4.50, 6/88. First volume of a
vividly creates the imperial court in magical fantasy adventure trilogy, in which a young
Japan and the common-born Uguisu, caught up in a woman figures as ruler and leader of the rebel
world of intrigues, ambition, treachery, and armies.
flo luv tee . by her extraordinary artistry with the $4.95, 7A / 8 8T .r i o T h f eor Lute, "Damia nb oy " R(ob e tr rt ia lo) g A y . collect eM da cA iv noy,
Finally, a prosperous 15th birthday to one volume, set in medieval Italy and featuring
Lammas Bookstore in Washington D.C., where I| a young male witch-lutenist and the archangel
started this column a couple of eons ago. Raphael. Minimal feminist content, but this is
fantasy at its very best.
Walkabout Woman, by Michaela Roessner,
$3.95, 9/88. Waking life and dream, material and
spiritual, blend in this well-reviewed novel of
a young native Australian woman, an outsider on
several counts, who finds a parallel in the
ACE BOOKS experience of a displaced Welsh girl.
The Fairy of Ku-She, by M. Lucie Chin, $3.50, A Mask for the General, by Lisa Goldstein,
8/88. Retelling of a classic Chinese tale, of a paper, price n/a, 10/88. Set in the Bay Area,
(female) elemental spirit condemned to a period this competent novel features more-or-less ordi-
of mortality and also drawn into the affairs of nary people dealing with daily life after poli-
Heaven. tical-environmental collapse.
Number 3 47 September 1988
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
DAW BOOKS
WHEN I AM AN OLD WOMAN Snow-Eyes, by Stephanie A. Smith, $3.50.
I SHALL WEAR PURPLE Fantasy of a young orphan, Snow-Eyes, drawn to
serve the goddess Lake Mother, and what happens
when an enchantress arrives and claims Snow-Eyes
|| "Very nicely designed, set in larger-than- for her daughter.
| usual type for aesthetics and readability." The Oathbound, by Mercedes Lackey, $3.50,
—Feminist Bookstore News 7/88. From the author of the fine "Heralds of
Valdemar" trilogy, a novel featuring a partner-
"These writers share the reality of being ship of woman warrior and woman magician, "join-
sa en x , o l td h ew o pm hyan si— cat l h e c h s ao nl git eu s,d e t, h et h e w il sa dc ok m of tin hg em f o br uc te s t oto a la lv e wng ome an no kt i n don ."ly the wrongs done to
gleaned but unacknowledged. The intima-
cy and humor of these writings should
touch readers young and old."—Booklist
"Sheer delight. A number of excellent and
touching photographs of aging women add Sword and Sorceress V, ed. by Marion Zimmer
remarkable strength to the work’s focus." Bradley, $3.95, 8/88. Fantasy anthology includ-
—Minnesota Women’s Press ing work by Mercedes Lackey, Diana Paxson, and
Jennifer Roberson.
Four Moons of Darkover, ed. by Marion Zim-
mer Bradley, paper, price n/a, 11/88. If pre-
vious anthologies are any guide, this Darkover
collection will feature mostly women writers and
include a few Free Amazon stories. What can I
say? I'm addicted!
DOUBLEDAY / FOUNDAT I ON
The Gate to Women's Country, by Sheri S.
Tepper, $18.95, 9/88. Moving, deftly constructed
novel that weaves a feminist interpretation of
Iphigenia (sacrificed by her father to assist
the Greek attack on Troy) with a crisis facing a
women-governed society 300 years after our own
has nearly incinerated itself. Here culture,
agriculture, technology, and childrearing are
all in women's hands. The women's towns are
"protected" by garrisons of men outside the
walls; boy children are raised primarily by the
warrior from age 5 to 15, when they can elect to
remain with the men or return to Women's country
and become "servitors."
This novel is an honest, thought-provoking
exploration of the tragic nature of male-female
relationships, then and now. Incredibly, how-
ever, same-sex sexual relationships do not exist
Order from Bookpeople, Inland, Moving in either the male garrisons or the mostly fe-
| Bo o Mk as c, h et ’h , e 3 4d i s Mtr ai lb agu at o r Ps l, . o Er ., f Mr ao nm h a tP ta ap nier- Bm ea cl ae u s et o w evn es n, e ix nc e pp rt e ca os n va u lsr ia or ne tp ie mrv ese ,r s i "o gn a. y W syh ny -?
Beach CA 90266 (213) 545-3812. drome" was found to be caused "by abberant hor-
September 1988
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
rected" before birth. I| find this not only homo- the "re-creation and perversion of religion,"
phobic in our own terms but also inexplicable in set in "a future ice-bound India," where a young
terms of the novel. Sheri Tepper is among the woman kills the sacred tiger that has killed her
best and most versatile speculative fiction brother. (NAL/Signet)
writers around, but her limits create a serious Buffalo Gals and Other Animal Presences, by
fault in the "women's community." Ursula K. Le Guin, $6.95, 9/88. Reprint of the
Venus of Shadows, by Pamela Sargent, $19.95 Capra collection of stories that blur the lines
(cloth), 11/88. Continues the saga of Venus of between animal and human. The title novella has
Dprearmso, tabaougt othen sietstlting. o f : a planet. Woman wb ae re dn . ( Nn Ao Lm /Pi ln umat e)e .d for sf's prestigious Nebula a-
The Healer's War, by Elizabeth Ann Scar- Angel Island, by Inez Haynes (Irwin) Gil-
borough, $17.95 (cloth), 12/88. Scarborough more, intro. by Ursula K. Le Guin, $8.95, 10/88.
seems to have taken a leap from her previous Prompted by Judith Schwarz's Radical Feminists
light fantasies to this, in which a U.S. nurse of Heterodoxy (of whom Inez Irwin was one), |
in Vietnam is led into mystical and emotional first read this 1914 novel in the nether reaches
engagement with the people she works with and of the Library of Congress. The story -- five
their country. flying women whose island idyll is interrupted
by the arrival of five shipwrecked men -- works
as both allegory and fantasy. Don't be fooled by
the catalogue blurb, which makes it sound as if
the subsequent birth of a winged male child
McELDERRY : heralds a new age of reconciliation between the
sexes; what the book suggests comes closer to
Moon-Dark, by Patricia Wrightson, $11.95 classic tragedy. Three cheers to Michele Slung,
(cloth). Some years back Wrightson wrote a magi- editor of Plume's "American Women Writers" se-
cal trilogy that drew on native Australian cul- ries, for reprinting this one. (NAL/Plume).
ture. This well-reviewed YA fantasy is also set The Silver Branch, by Patricia Kennealy,
in Australia and features animal characters $18.95, 12/88. Third "novel of the Keltiad,"
struggling with disruptions caused by human whose first two volumes I| enjoyed immensely.
developments. Space adventure mixes wonderfully here with the
classic stuff of Celtic fantasy, featuring a
NAL full measure of female characters, both heroes
Children of Arable, by David Belden, $2.95. and villains.
Belden is a feminist-inspired writer, ‘influenced
by Piercy, Le Guin, Charnas, and others. This sf
novel, set in a distant future where the sexes
are interchangeable, deals with the nature of
gender and of sexism. | have a copy in hand and PAGEANT / CROWN
hope to offer a short review next issue. (NAL/ Neena Gathering, by Valerie Nieman Colan-
Signet) der, $2.95, 7/88. I| haven't seen this yet, but
Druid's Blood, by Esther M. Friesner, it sounds impressive: After a chemical-biologi-
$3.50, 7/88. A manic romp through an alternate- cal holocaust, a teenager takes refuge on her
Victorian England, in which young Victoria's aunt's West Virginia farm where, assisted by her
magical powers are threatened by wily politi- elders, she creates "a family and a life for
cians. (NAL/Signet) herself out of a crashed culture." One theme is
8/ T8o W8ar.m t hei nEartqh, u byi Draviyd B eld eni,nto $3.95, the protagonist's sexual harassment by her un-
According to the author, an cle.
Number 3 September 1988
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
POPULAR LIBRARY (QUESTAR)
Dawn, by Octavia Butler, $3.95. The crit-
ically actlaimed first volume of Butler's "Xeno- JESS
genesis" series is finally in paperback -- and
if any of you have any clout with Popular Lib- W È L É >
rary, would you nudge them to put FBN's f/sf' Author of THE DRESS/THE SHARDA STORIES
editor on their p.r. list?
ST. MARTIN'S
The Hidden Side of the Moon, by Joanna
Russ, trade paper, price n/a, 11/88. Reprint of
Russ's most recent story collection, spanning
nearly three decades of work. If you have any
pull with St. Martin's . . . see the message
under "Popular Library."
TOR
Southshore, by Sheri S. Tepper, $3.95.
Volume 2 of "The Awakeners," begun in North-
shore, one of the best-developed fantasy worlds
I've visited yet.
Dragonfire, by Jody Lynn Nye, $3.50, 7/88.
Interactive book/game set on Anne McCaffrey's
Pern. The focus is Mirrim, the only female
green-dragon rider.
Hellspark, by Janet Kagan, $3.95, 7/88.
Mystery/adventure on a newly discovered planet,
featuring a young female protagonist and a
ship's computer with a female persona.
Tales of the Witch World: The Second Book, :
ed. by Andre Norton, $18.95 (cloth), 7/88. SESU
"Shared-world anthologies" are a dime a dozen, | yH
but this fledgling series has an impressive
reputation because "Witch World" creator Norton
is taking an active hand in its development.
Chains of Gold, by Nancy Springer, $3.95,
8/88. Two lovers attempt to thwart the mandated
sacrifice of the summer king, who must die for
the fertility of the land.
The Palace, by Chelsea Quinn Yarbro, $3.95,
8/88. Second in Yarbro's series about the time-
less vampire, Saint Germain. (I loved the first,
Hotel Transylvania, though the well- -developed
female characters chafed at the 18th century
Parisian setting.)
Crown of Stars, by James Tipiree, Jr.,
cloth, price n/a, 9/88. Possibly the last col-
lection of stories by the late, great Alice
Sheldon, who took her own life in May 1987. ©
September 1988 50 Volume 11 Number 3
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
N
MYSTERIES °.
L£ P
by Karen Axness $3.95. rive friends travel to Venice during
Carnival. One is murdered. Discovering the mur-
Two recent releases from small presses derer in a city where everyone is, masked makes
deserve mention here. Amanita Enterprises has for a very suspenseful, unnerving tale.
issued another Eve Zaremba book. Beyond Hope
(12.95 pb) is a thriller featuring Helen Ker-
emos. Helen is hired to locate a sixties fugi-
tive in the wilds of British Columbia, but all
Tihsis isn ano ten g raosssi ng i ttal e asned e am gresa,t i mapsro v e- HeAlen qu ickaly d iscaov ers . '© È
ment over Zaremba's last book, but the price s : $ o
will deter all but her most well-off, fans. Magic Mirror, Mickey Friedman, Viking,
Alyson Publications has published a psycho- p cl. A s latest features a journal-
logical thriller, The Crystal Curtain by Sandy iSt eroine, Georgia tee Maxwell; who moves. to
Bayer ($7.95), in which Stephanie Nowland, who Paris and promptly becomes involved in a murder
uses her psychic abilities to help the pølice, INvSSEga o A museum guard is „sited and the
is stalked by a vengeful killer. The psycho- mysterious "mirror of Nostradamus" is stolen.
pathic thoughts and acts of the murderous es- `
caped convict contrasted with the loving rela- SEPTEMBER
tionship of Stephanie and her lover Marian pro- Blood Shot, Sara Paretsky, Delacorte,
duce tension and suspense. Graphic violence may | Y17.95 cl. A new V.I. Warshawki story! No fur-
upset some readers. ther information available at this time.
Now on to the early fall releases. Clio Browne: Private Investigator, Dolores
Komo, Crossing, $6.95. One of two new Woman-
Sleuth mysteries coming out this month, this
£ novel introduces a bl ahcerk o wwn oagmencayn an dp ra i vvaaritetey oef y wei ll inwg iatsshist-
© ants. Set in St. Louis, the case begins simply
enough, in recovering a missing ring, but soon
AUGUST Footprints, Kelly iBs cromaplidcatfed obyr ad bi,za rr e Cmurrdeor.ssing,
Rehearsal for Murder, P.M. Carlson, Bantam, $6.95. This novel has two sleuths, a gay private
$3.50. A Maggie Ryan mystery. Murder and kidnap- eye, Derek Thompson, and a woman assistant at-
ping intrude on Maggie and her husband Nick's torney general named Torrance Adams. The story
life with their new baby. P.M. Carlson is quite involves kidnapping and an underground market in
popular at our store, so our customers will be babies.
pleased to discover that Bantam also has plans Death Among Strangers, Deirdre S. Laiken,
to' 8 p8ub li sha n twdo a dSditpiornail n nogve ls 'o8f 9 h.e rs "inb elatse t A v oFn i$r3.9s5t. W inNneor v ofe lt,he" 1 98t7 h Eidgsa r Aiwsa r d a f o rsuspense novel
Venetian Mask, Mickey rriedman, Penguin, based on a true crime. The murder of an uniden-
Volume 11 Number 3 51 September 1988
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
tified teenage girl throws the inhabitants of a knows neither the identity of the killer nor the
small town into a panic. Against this background victim.
social worker Elizabeth Kern develops an erotic The Last Draw, Elsabet Peterzen, Seal
obsession with a stranger which blinds her to Press, $8.95. The first of Peterzen's eleven
danger... This is the kind of book I usually books to be translated into English, this detec-
avoid, but the award makes me curious, so l'Il deals with misogyny and its effects.
report back. A string of seemingly random murders in the
One Coffee With, Margaret Maron, Bantam, Stockhom area have in common only that they are
$3.50. Reprint of the first Sigrid Harald mys- all men. A husband-and-wife investigative jour-
tery has the police detective investigating nalist team narrates the tale which the pub-
murder in the art department of a prestigious lisher promises will "raise controversy and con-
university. sciousness."
Silk Stalkings: When Women Write of Murder, Ladies' Night, Elisabeth Bowers, Seal
Victoria Nichols & Susan Thompson, Creative Press, $8.95. A first novel by a writer from
Arts/Black Lizard $12.95. "The first comprehen- Vancouver, British Columbia, introduces a femi-
sive work on series characters created by women nist private eye, a mother of two with a black
authors" surveys nearly six hundred characters belt in Aikido, named Meg Lacy. A case involving
and over three thousand titles including au- a missing teenager takes her to back alleys and
thors, pseudonyms, character(s) and lists of all seedy clubs where runaways sell sex to survive
the titles in a series. At 448 pp, this sounds on the streets. Salal, a young junkie, proposes
like a great reference book for mystery fans! a oplanf to Me g tbo puut a s kididine-poren ospersatio.n out O
The rive Bells and Bladebone, Martha
Grimes, Dell $4.50. Grimes' latest Inspector
Jury story appearing for the first time in pa-
perback.
OCTOBER
Mortal Sins, Anna Porter, NAL, $17.95 cl.
Second mystery featuring freelance journalist
and amateur sleuth, Judith Hayes (Hidden Agenda
was the first). The sudden death of a Canadian
business woman cheats Judith out of an interview
with the wealthy recluse. Soon there is another
coPrpaser wihsic h laeadns dher toH Nuewn Ygorka, r Beyrm.u da ,:
Huckleberry Fiend, Julie Smith, Mysterious
Press $3.95. Her second novel featuring Paul Mc-
D I o hn oal pd e, tn ho ew y 'l li n r ep -a ip sse ur e. her first s“I l i pte pll e y do u d I o d uo nn' t tre had e p o pe atr gy e, s b u t a s m y e a e sy ie ls y as I
Schwartz mysteries. imagined this poet's eyes slipping doun some
Sisters in Crime, Maureen T. Reddy, Con- handsome woman's body while out on a
t Cin ru iu mm e, $ N17 o.9 v5 e lc ,l ". S u tb ht iit sl e d w " oF re km in ois fm la in td e r t ah re y criticism c or pu enis e . t h A e cs oh vo er rt . ” book and irresistible once you
demonstrates how a variety of women mystery — Carol Seajay, Feminist Bookstore News
writers who have created female protagonists are
redefining the genre through their feminist “...a fine affirmation of lesbian identity and
point of view. sexuality.”
A ratal Inversion, Barbara Vine (Ruth Ren- —carol anne douglas, off our backs
dell), Bantam, $3.95. Rendell writes of the Bookstores may order from Inland Book Co., Inc.,
effect of a murder ten years in the past on five 245 Bradley St, East Haven, Ct 06512, or call 800-243-0138
of the people who were involved. The reader ISBN: 0-961-74060-4 $3.95 pb
September 1988 Volume 11
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
in Feminist
Bookstores
By Betsy Nuse challenging, "post-modern" writing, but reading
I have marked a few titles with an "*" for "ull Bloom" on the day the apple blossoms came
booksellers with a small or growing section. out cinched the book for me. Poet Rosmarie Wal-
tT oh e rse e c ob moo mk es n dr e a td o w cue sl tl o malo eru sd va wnd il l is nh go u tld o tb ae k ee a s ay risk d ar no dp p cr hod au pce bs o oth ke ss .e h Sa in gd nso em de ll ie mtte ir tp er des s e b do io tk is ons are a-
with poetry. -- Betsy. vailble. Check out their catalogue if you have
book collectors among your clientele. Burning
If you already successfully stock Virago's Deck Press, 71 Elmgrove Avenue, Providence, RI
Charlotte Mew selection in your poetry or les-
bian poetry sections, try Charlotte Mew and Her
rriends with a Selection of Her Poems by Pene-
lope Fitzgerald, a new biography of this strong-
ly woman-identified British turn-of-the-century
poet. It includes some poems. Addison Wesley's
Radcliffe Biography Series, 0-201-08895-9,
US$17.95 cl.
Blue Holes by Laurel Trivelpiece is an
example of the best in traditional modern poet-
ry; philosophical ideas evolving out of emotion-
al experiences and descriptions of prairie and
west coast landscapes. (Alice James Books, 138
Mount Auburn Street, Cambridge, MA 02138 or from
Inland, 0914086-75-8 pb.) If you're building up
your poetry section, be sure to get catalogues 02906, in North America from Small Press, Sun &
from this "writers' co-operative with an empha- Moon or Bookslinger, in the U.K. from Spec-
sis on publishing poetry by women." tacular Diseases, in Australia from Collected
If you'd like a non-non-fiction book to Works, 0-930901-54-1, US$7.00 pb.
recommend to an expectant mother for a change, Loa Lemire Tostvin's 'sọphie is worth the
try Re Creation* by Ronnie R. Brown. The title price for the wonderful heterosexual love poems
piece describes - positively and good-humouredly of the final section. Coach House Press, 401
- conceiving a baby, pregnancy, and childbirth. (rear) Huron Street, Toronto, Ontario, Canada
B 91a 9lm 51u 1i -r 4 2 b -2o .oks, from University of Toronto, O0- oM r5 S I n l2 aG n5 d, , i 0n - 8 8t 9h 1e 0 -U 32.S 3. - 2 f , r o Cm $9 . 9U 5n iv pe br .sity of Toronto
tant A mnn oe d eH re nbe r t p ois e t o sn . e Bo Of A Q u e Ebe dc i's t i om nos st (im Stp oo dr- dard in collec tA in oo nth e r is r e Tce hn et a In nd k a t t Dr aac rt kiv e M all o- olo nve *- p o bem y Ono No
tC ra an na sd la a) t e dh a s b y r e c Ae .n . t l Py o u lr ie nl e a Jse rd ., S ae le bc it lie nd g u P ao l e m ses lec- K Jo am pa ac nhi ' s a n Hd e I iz au nm i e S rh ai k ib (8u 0, 0 t w -o g 1r 1ea 0t 0 p o Aet .s D .o )f . Transla-
tion including some previously uncollected tions are by U.S. poet Jane Hirshfield with
poems. BOA Editions Ltd., 92 Park Avenue, Brock- Mariko Aratani. Scribners, in the U.S. from
port, iNew York 14420 or from Bookpeopie, Inland, Macmillan, in Canada from Collier Macmillan, O0-
Bookslinger or Small Press, 0-918526-57-4, 684-18971-2, US$14.95 cl.
US$10.00 pb. The Breaking Up Poems* is another collec-
The equestrian theme of rree Rein by Laura tion of readable (angry, funny, thoughtful) les-
Chester reminded me of Vicki Hearne. This is biana from Christine Donald, author of The rat
Volume 11 Number 3 September 1988
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
. Le H e SEn eA ranch. The "I'm not a feminist but..." poem
AMA" ; LU B00 KISA called "Clara: In the Post Office" is worth the
m HERLAND MF M book. Spoon River Poetry Press, PO Box 1443,
E number E Peoria, Illinois 61655, 0-944024-02-5, US$5.95.
R twelve ) R Taurean Horn Press (distributed by Inland)
l . - , I announced books by two dynamic Native feminist
c private lives & rd c poets in In Wlaynrdds ' sb y r Peaculean Gtu n ns o Aa ll enc h (e0-c9k31l5i5s1t-0:7-9,
Á COMMON CAUSES R US$8.95 pb) and A Mountain Climbers Handbook by
N N Carol Lee Sanchez (0-931552-06-0, US$8.95 pb).
s poems by s A Lonely Woman: Forugh Farrokhzad and Her
Kathleen Vilmure Poetry by Michael C. Hillman is a biography of a
T (A Marilu Book) $7.00 T gifted, rebellious 20th-century Iranian poet.
u ISBN 0-934996-49-0 i s jomint . SA SA
e boo rings together valuable information
1 LC Cat Card No 88-71412 I about her career and includes Persian and Eng-
E E lish texts of many poems. Three Continents
s For BOOKLIST, write: 6-2-14, s Press, 1636 Connecticut Avenue, N.W., Washing-
AMERICAN STUDIES PRESS, Inc. a a
orders oO or more prepaid, - - =2,
: 13511 Palmwood Lane P US$12.00 pb.
E : E tTahmapan, F lonriidca e 3?3 62 4G Re tRteminemgb er t whheen wHomoeun'ss e pwoetorry k w as D moorne e r a wfor the
s (Discounts to Bookstores) s Dance* by Libby Oughton is a breath of angry,
Sh e $ r S iS a S n S$ d S fresh air. Oughton is the editor & publisher
behind Gynergy Books. Williams-Wallace Pub-
Woman Measures Up. Gynergy Books, in the U.S. lishers, 3625 Weston Road Unit 16, Weston,
tf or ,o m 0 - 9I 2n 1l 8an 81d -, 0 4i -n 5 , C Can $a 9d .9a 5 f pr bo .m University of Toron- O Sn et aa r i Po, r eC sa sn a d 5a 5 M 6 9 L B e1 lV l9 e, v uin e th Ae v eU n.S u. ef ,r o m T r eR ned ton, N.J.
Also from Gynergy: Double Negative by 08618, 0-88795-064-7, C$9.75 pb.
Daphne Marlatt and Betsy Warland, a collection The Blue Donkey Fables* by Suniti Namjoshi
by two fine lesbian poets which includes a dia- reads on the surface as pleasantly and easily as
logue inspired by a trip across Australia. O0- stories for children. On deeper levels her fa-
921881-02-9, C$9.95. : bles comment on sexism in society and racism in
A pleasant addition to both your poetry the women's movement. The Women's Press, 34
section and the section on, by and for older Great Sutton Street, London DC1V ODX, U.K., in
women would by Moving in Memory* by Julia Canada from Bookcentre, 0-7042-4115-8, C$10.50
Randall. These traditional poems include memora- pb.
ble descriptions of mid-Atlantic countryside, The Women's Press has also announced two
family and friends. Louisiana State University anthologies: Women's Resistance Poetry from
Press, Baton Rouge, Louisiana 70893, in Canada Latin America edited by Amanda Hopkinson, trans-
from Scholarly, 0-8071-1388-3, US$6.95 pb. lated by Members of the El Salvador Solidarity
Anthologies are a great way to introduce committee (0-7043-4095-X, UKŁ3.95) and Right of
readers to poetry and readers of poetry to new Way: Prose and Poetry from the Asian Women Writ-
authors. Early Ripening: American Women's Poetry ers' Workshop which includes work from India,
Now* edited by Marge Piercy is a "traditional" Pakistan and South Africa (0-7043-4091-7, UKL
but vigorous selection including Black, Asian 4.95). O
and native, older and younger women. Pandora, in
the U.S. from Allen & Unwin, in Canada from
Little Brown, 0-86358-141-2, US$9.95 pb.
Roadkill* by Linda Hasselstrom is simple,
moving writing out of life on a northern prairie
September 1988 : : 54 Volume 11 Number 3
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
By Jane L. Troxell tribal culture of a iVew York dance club. Harold
Lambda Rising Book renestere undergoes initiation into the pres-
tigious disco circuit of the early 80's by join-
Richard Labonte of a Different Light Book- ing the exclusive HSDC. Harold meets such deni-
zens of dance temple as the Queen of Caracas,
"shaping up to be the biggest year in years for Tom the Texan who is a medical examiner, and
voracious readers." Looking at the fall titles zthyl Mary, queen of S/M. The dance frenzy leads
for gay men in particular, one has to agree with Harold beyond the obnvious to a greater vision of
Labonte. Such titles as Borrowed Time by Paul humanity.
Monette and Ground Zero by Andrew Holleran are Liberty is also putting out Acts of Contri-
already changing the way we read about AIDS. And tion by Tom riechowsky ($8.95 paperback, rall
the Band Played On by Randy Shilts will be out '88), a coming of age story about two boys in
in paperback, increasing its impact. New books Catholic school who fall in love.
on coming out, safe sex, and spirituality/ reli- NAL's Plume riction will publish the fol-
gion will prove to ope significant too. The small low-up to George Stambolian's successful first
presses and the gay imprints of the big houses anthology with Men on Men 2 ($9.95 paperback).
will not prove Labonte, a voracious reader him- "Best new gay fiction" comes from Richard McCann
self, wrong. in "My Mother's Clothes: The School of Beauty
and Shame," Lev Raphael's "Dancing on Tishe
B'av," and David reinberg's "The Age of Anx-
iety." Stambolian has also enlisted some "names"
-- namely, Joseph Pintauro, James Purdy, Albert
NEW TITLES - GENERAL INTEREST Innaurato, Christopher Coe, and David Leavitt.
Revelations: a Collection of Gay Male Com- Longing by Paul Reed ($14.95 hardcover)
$in 7.g 9 5 O u pt a p eS rt bo ar ci kes ) . e Td wit ee nd t yb -y tw oW a myn ene , C ru ar nt gis i. n g ( A il ny s o an g, e w Ei vll o cb ae t ir vel ee ,a se d h a b uy n tC ie nle gst i a al n A dr t s b ein a u S te ip ft uem llb ye r . written,
from their teens to their seventies, tell their Reed's is a novel about a young man's search for
o aw n c hco om rdin g o o fu t r s et cor oi ges n iw th ioic nh a ir ne s eur ve e rt yo s t gr aik ye reader. m eae ran lyin g 8 i 0n ' s .S a n T hrr ea n c pis uco b's l i sg hay e r c u l ct au lr le s o f t h t ih se book "one
aI nn dcl u Jde ims w Bo ar xk t e rb ,y a sL a r wr ey ll D au s p l oe tc hh ea rn s, . D To hn is S ía sk e tr hs e, fo af ll st eh ase o n ."major literary gay male novels of the
male counterpart to Alyson's Testimonies: a
Collection of Lesbian Coming Out Stories edited
by Sarah Holmes.
John Preston's latest SAFE SEX WORKBOOK
(Alyson, $10.00 paperback) teaches sex education St. Martin's Stonewall Inn Editions Will
for gay men which is visual, explicit, and feature two reprints and two new-in-paperbacks
erotic. Looking at the many options which safe for the fall. Alienated Affections: Being Gay in
sex presents for gay men, safe sexpert Preston America, essays by Seymour Kleinberg ($8.95
addresses common questions about the subject. paperback) probes the conditions of gay men in
Large format. America today. "America's foremost gay novelist"
Holy Spirit Dance Club by Joseph Puccia. Edmund White will see his Nocturnes for the King
(Liberty Press, $9.95 paperback) chronicles the of Naples printed by St. Martin's ($7.95 paper-
Number 3 September 1988
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
back). The God of Ecstasy: Sex Roies and the paperback) AIDS: What went wrong? rrominent
Madness of Dionysos by Arthur Evans ($8.95 pa- reporter Shilts points fingers in this dramatic
perback) examines how Dionysian cult practices and historical chronicle of the AIDS epidemic. A
empowered women while validating variant forms bestseller in hardcover, this important cross-
of male sexuality. Edward Phillips' Sunday's over title should be read by men and women
Child ($7.95 paperback) rounds out this season's alike. Despite doubts as to its strict adherence
Stonewall Inn Editions. In this mystery, up- to fact, the book is a superb piece of journal-
standing lawyer Geoffrey Chadwick finds himself ism and a gripping story. Those who didn't want
in a sticky wicket and finds that disposing of a to pay $25 to get the book in hardcover have
corpse is no easy task. been waiting for this moment.
Also new and big from St. Martin's Press is To take the AIDS test or not? The Wrong
than Mordden's latest look at gay life in the Apple by David Rees (Knights Press, $8.50 paper-
big Apple. tverybody Loves You ($16.95 hard- back) details one of the most difficult deci-
cover) catches up with characters such as the sions facing gay men today. One man's world
eternal young man, Little Kiwi, devastating hunk begins to fall apart after testing HIV-positive.
Carlo, and our narrator vud from Buddies and
I've a reeling We're Not in Kansas Anymore.
Meadowland Books, Lyle Stuart's recently
instituted gay and lesbian imprint, will release
S tt t iMM sh hh h eo o ee e an rr t d eaeo w o rt (f w et $a if le 7k sl yi ' a .sen 9 n R g 5 d sa os oe c f y ep c w no sao tf p t u i ol h en l o n r et t n b h r a L ee s o c ou api f kr u mc r ) rc i bn e h s a ese ti sbs rsc if o 'o d s Mu un ell o t d o B v n o eB e t fe ls ro h ot e 'r t vs ea t r es e h 'o o dsd H en w e o ae n a lt cd nlt oh ayh dv m wi eT s l et oi G rom o f a oT d e .a dh A,l l e w A I. D (P $ l hS L saI 9in , ou o .c 9,l n h 5g w agb s pup hy pi oe d e ac e l iiE sa t v tlC e o slee l e l sl re c c ys i ah ot r rn ui ea ea sa tpl ld ay t eB kA re e a sr i rr u lt sl s hl c o oaoE h tw fn x t h Pe t ( o Wn oA$ m d 9 A Ie etD.d '.a s9 k S 5 TeH . a h s e ica p sT al w t ra hh ee bp l i o l e s ooC r kf aa b sr s e ssa o ho oc l m toa ik ht ud e e) l b, d rH o s do in pm yrce l au cd tie cs a l a
paperback) which investigates the hold over w ah no n aee id l i t nh ge s p peci eal r sk ono nw le d ag te t o h t oa mke eca .r e ; of
RGomrane eemkpe r orl o Hvaderiran, by A hins tyoiunngo, uobssc.ure Strip AIDS USA ed. by Tina Robbins. (Last
Gasp, $9.95 paperback) One hundred cartoonists
Gerard P. Donelan already has a new collec- donate art to benefit AIDS patients through the
tion of favorite cartoons from the Advocate Shanti rroject. Originally published in Britain,
entitled Donelan's Back (Liberation Publica- this interesting project will be distributed by
tions, $5.95 paperback). Supplying the community Inland.
with cartoons which make people exclaim, "That's How to rind Information About AIDS by Vir-
me!," Donelan wittily recreates gay vitality. ginia Lingle and M. Sandra Wood (Harrington Park
ress, $6.95 paperback). Up-to-date info on AIDS
hotlines, educational programs on AIDS, institu-
tions devoted to the funding of research, treat-
ment and prevention, and more. To date, this is
the only "how to find it" guide specifically
AIDS directed at helping anyone who needs to locate
Borrowed Time by Paul Monette (HBJ, $18.95 both general and specialized information on
hardcover). The first "AIDS memoir" AIDS.
lished, Monette's "cry from the heart" The AIDS Book by Louise Hay (Hay House,
supremely moving love story of deeply felt com- $10.00 paperback). Pop-healer and self-love guru
mitment and devotion. Borrowed Time speaks to Hay assists PWA's in finding a way to their own
all readers -- lovers and friends, gay and healing powers. Hay asserts, "If you're looking
straight, the sick and the sound -- about how to for more scare material, you picked the wrong
live, to fight for life, and finally, to die book. There is so much frightening information
with dignity and grace. being passed out through the media. It is time
iNew in paperback in October -- And the Band the positive side of AIDS gets a chance to be
Played On by Randy Shilts (Penguin Books, $12.95 heard."
Volume 11 Number 3
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
THE HOLY SPIRIT DANCE CLUB THE ROSE-BEARER
by Joseph Puccia by Lizabeth May
T Young Harold views an The Strauss' Der Rosenkavalier takes
exclusive disco as his temple. Rose-Bearer a new twist when opera star
Ethyl Mary, Queen of S&M, Suzette faces both a temptress
and Himiko, priestess of and a crisis in her art. A novel
light, are strong women who of lesbian professionals
guide him to a spiritual side challenging their traditional
of gay life he never knew roles.
existed.
by
ISBN: 0-938743-07-4 $9.95 Lizabeth May ISBN: 0-938743-05-8 $7.95
A side note about AIDS novel At Risk by applies astrological patterns to gay men.
Alice Hoffman (Putnam, $17.95) -- beware ooOf Taking a Chance on God: Spiritual Messages
misinformation! Hoffman's new novel plays on our for Lesbian and Gay Christians by John McNeill
most deeply held convictions about death and the (Beacon, $17.95 hardcover). The author of the
injustice of disease and touches us just as bestselling Church and the Homosexual offers in-
Brian's Song or Love Story might. Hoffman's formation and inspiration in this new ground-
timing is great, anu she has been rewarded by breaking work on the joys and challenges of
the sale of movie rights to At Risk. being a gay or lesbian Christian.
revolves around 1l-year-old Amanda rarrell's
struggle with AIDS, a subject about which Hoff-
man must know very little. If you sell this book
(to Hoffman's credit, some royalties will be
going to the funding of AIDS research), you may
want to warn customers that Hoffman's account of Uncommon Calling: a Gay Man's Struggle to
Amanda's struggle with AIDS is tainted by a Serve the Church by Chris Glaser (Harper & Row
medically impossible diagnosis and legal dis- San rrancisco, paperback, $10.95). Well-known
crepancies. Even though this is fiction, those gay Christian leader Glaser reveals his strug-
who expected Hoffman to treat the subject with gles with his sexuality and his faith.
respect for the reality of AIDS will be disap- Brian ivicKnaught also has a new book out, On
pointed. being Gay: Thoughts on ramily, raith, and Love
(St. Martin's, $13.95 hardcover). Writer and
DRAMA lecturer McKnaught has a special knack for ena-
Safe Sex by Harvey Fierstein (Macmillan, bling people to understand what it means to be
$8.95 paperback, 96 pp.) New in paperback. Si- gay. This important collection of his highly
multaneously a searing and devastatingly comic regarded published writings will help gay men
argument between two male lovers which also and women who seek to understand, affirm, and
ruminates on what being gay was like "then" and integrate their sexual orientation into the rest
"now". of their lives.
RELIGION & SPIRITUALITY B 10OGRAPHY
Gay Signs by James E. Kneeland (Hay House, Keep the River on Your Right by Tobias
$10.00 paperback). Stating that "homosexuality Schneebaum (Grove Press. $7.95 paperback). This
can be determined astrologically by a relation- classic account of the author's life with a
ship between Uranus and the Moon," Kneeland Peruvian cannibal tribe is a fiercely beautiful
Number 3 September 1988
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
journey into the "uncharted habitations of the "Emotional Rollercoaster." The album includes
flesh and spirit." such ditties as "Straightening Up the House,"
Lonesome Traveler: the Life of Lee Hays "My Mother's Clothes," "The Sodomy Song," "Give
(Norton, $17.95 hardcover) by Doris Willens will Me a Homosexual," and "Be On the Safe Side."
please fans of The Weavers. Apparently, Hays Recommended listening.
suffered from "sexual ambiguity," as the index Singer/songwriter/AIDS activist Michael
puts it. And, of course, there are plenty of Callen sings of hope and glory on his new LP,
anecdotes about Ronnie Gilbert. "Purple Heart." Callen, a PWA with a purpose,
fights for our lives as founder of the People
with AIDS Coalition and tireless spokesperson
for the message that not everyone dies of AIDS.
This new effort by the former New York club
singer is directed to lesbians and gay men but
is not, Callen points out, an "AIDS" album but
an album simply for "those who want to listen."
SIDELINES Songs include "Where the Boys Are," "How to Have
Gay Pride Rainbow rlags: Paramount rliag Co. Sex," "Love Don't Need a Reason," and "Home."
is wholesaling rainbow flags which have really Both albums are available on cassette and
caught on as a symbol of Gay rride. The flags CD from Ladyslipper.
come in three sizes -- 3'x5' durable paralight
outdoor flags, 12"x18" paralight flags mounted Jane Troxell is the editor of the Lambda
on poles, and a small (3"x5") handheld flag made Rising Book Report, a contemporary review of gay
of cotton. ror catalog, write Paramount rliag and lesbian literature. She lives in the Nuclear
Co., 450 Ninth Street, San Francisco, CA 94103. Free Zone of Tacoma Park, MD. O
MEN'S MUSIC
The "queens" of gay men's music, Romanov-
sky and Phillips, have a new album out called
„For a Copy of Your Own:
i ALL THE BOXES YOU CAN AND MAIL TO I am 1 We are: D Owned and operated by women
FNBN,a PmO BeOX 8D825 54 , W SANo FmRANeCInSCO’s, CA s 9t41u88 d D i Reeasde rs /tbibeliaopchihles e Dr C o- owanned d an d rmun ebyn women
Business Name D Write OrD LDib ra rFiane m I/Wine iasrte e spfeicicaltlyi o innterested in:
Address E Bookseller D Lesbian fiction
City/State/Zip D Publisher D Lesbian non-fiction
Bone: O Craftswomen D D PeWrioodimcal e Dn F’sem insistt u tdheioerys a ntdi tploelitsics
[I One Year - $50. Check enclosed. D Other E HAY
DO One Year - $55. Bill us. Bookstores, Publishers, and Periodicals — D Women and work
[1 Special Trial Offer Is your focus primarily: D Gay men’s literature
1/2 year - $25 Check enclosed. D Feminist D Peace and anti-nuke boks
[1 + $13 for international postage. D Gay D Children’s books
| posag L Akernative/political D Other
D +96 for Canadian postage. D General independent bookstore
September 1988 58 Volume 11 Number 3
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
Dyke Proud: A Lesbian Poetry Reading offers A series of poems from Double Negative are
women who weren't able to attend the Montreal included in the Dyke Proud tape. Marlatt and
Bookfair a chance to "sit in" on the lesbian Warland use experimental forms to look at love
poetry reading. The tape is satisfyingly long, and relationships interwoven with their experi-
includes full texts and gives a sense of actual- ence of crossing the Australian dessert by
ly being there for the reading. Ail of the poets train. $9.95 pb 0-921881-02-9. Don't: A Woman's
are quite well known and have books that you Word is a courageous, exemplary book written by
likely already stock. Readers include Elana a woman recalling incest, molestation, and abuse
Dykewomon, Judith Barrington, Libby Oughton, under her father's supervision.... It's a very
Suniti Namjoshi, Gillian Hanscombe, Judy Grahn, powerful and moving book of recollection, re-
Gloria Anzaldua, Christian McEwan, Daphne Mar- weaving and healing. $12.95 pb 0-921881-05-3.
latt and Betsy Warland. All of the work at this
reading was presented in English. Edited and PEI CIA 7K2, Canada.
published by Ann Pearson and Norah Fraser, Les
Productions Annor. $12 U.S/ $13 Can. In the U.S.
order from Ladyslipper (PO Box 3130, Durham NC
27705. 800-634-6044). In Canada, please avoid
customs hassles and order direct from Les Pro-
ductions Annor, PO Box 332, Victoria Station,
Montreal Quebec H3Z 2V5. Annor's next production
will be a tape of Nicole Brossard's erotic
poetry, read “in French and English. I’ 'think
Annor is going to be opening up a new window on
lesbian poetry. Maybe the most effective way to
sell it is to open a tape and play it in the
store? (And also sell a few books of poetry
along the way?) Maybe rent the Nicole Brossard
tape out with the videos...?
A number of books were launched at The Book mITSUYE YAMAD A
Fair, including Double Negative by Daphne Mar-
latt and Betsy Warland, Don't: A Woman's Word by
Elly Danica (both published by Gynergy Books/ The Aerial Letter brings together twelve
. Ragweed), A Guide to Gracious Lesbian Living essays encompassing "ten years of anger, revolt,
from Lilith Publications, The Aerial Letter by certitude and conviction; ten years of fighting
Nicole Brossard (translated by Marlene Wildemen) against that screen which stands in the way of
from The Women's Press/Canada and La Theorie, Un women's energy, identity, and creativity." Bros-
Dimanche, by Louky Bersienik, Nicole Brossard, sard is one of Quebec's premier writers, with
Gail Scott, et al., published by Les Editions du 20+ books to her credit. The Aerial Letter chal-
Remue-Menage. lenges feminist cultural experience and imagina-
Volume 11 Number 3 September 1988
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
( BEYOND THE EAGLE N Ever o, n N oa cMhaitldte rw hWoshea t ,m obtyh e rM acrhyoleoashes Ottot o l,e afvoec uasnes
: ; : abusive family situation and takes her children
An Intervibrational Perspective with her to a women's shelter. Picturebook for-
on Woman’s Spiritual Journey mat ($4.95 pb 0-88961-133-5. October). November
by „titles will include Never Too Thin: How Society
Ellen Chambers with Constructs Women's Bodies, a challenge to pop-
Grace Walking Stick and ular notions about bulemia and anorexia ($10.95
Seven Other Women in Spirit pb 0-88961-127-0) and Spaces Like Stairs by Gail
. Scott (Spare Parts and Heroine), a collection of
An exceptional work in which nine women essays that trace the development of an anglo-
of different vibrations come together to tell phone feminist writer working in a francophone
their stories and philosophies of successful women's milieu ($10.95 pb 0-88961-131-9.
spiritual travel. These women dare to speak
whathas not been spoken. They take strong
positions against accepted spiritual thought o AV
and action, holding that much of it per-
petuates male interests at the expense of Amanita Enterprises, publishers of the Eve
women’s growth. This book is for the woman Zaremba mysteries featuring street-smart lesbian
who truly wants to grow and change, and detective Helen Keremos (Beyond Hope and Work
who knows she deserves the entire universe! for a Million) announced at Montreal that they
Wild Violet Publishing, are expanding their publishing schedule to in-
P.O. Box 1311, Hamilton, MT 59840 e (406) 363-2696. clude non-fiction. This fall they will publish
Paperback, $12.95 plus $1.00 postage. CIn r e at nh e o fN a m the e o sf o - ct ah lle e d F a 'fth ate hr es r, s a n r ig e hx tp so ' s e p h b ey no mSu es -an
N” (50% pius postage to bookstores.) 7 non, especially as it concerns child custody.
Crean is a respected journalist and author of
tion. Brossard's reflections on writing and the Newsworthy Lives of Media Women and Who's Afraid
emergence and survival of lesbian identity are of Canadian Culture. In winter 1988/89, Amanita
hard-hitting and incisive. Throughout she will launch Who's Doing What to Whom, a stunning
tries to come to terms with a world steeped in new look at pornography and prostitution, at the
a patriarchal tradition that has tragically practice and the theory. Amanita says that the
influenced women's lives. $10.95, 0-88961-123-8. book will be controversial and is like nothing:
The Women's Press/Canada. Available in the U.S. yet in print -- which is the whole idea behind
from Inland and Bookpeople. Amanita. The book's author, Susan G. Cole, is a
prize winning journalist and a co-editor of
The Women's Press' fall list also includes Broadside: A Feminist Review. In Canada, order
a number of other titles including (of course) directly from Amanita, PO Box 784, Station P,
the 1989 Everywoman's Almanac. This year's al- Toronto M5S 2Z1. 40% for 5+. Available from
manac features interviews with women who have Bookpeople and Inland in the States.
been involved with the Women's Press over the
last 16 years. The interviews look at changing
visions and experiences over the years and at G Ey
ongoing efforts to combine political priorities
with the business of publishing. $9.95, O0-
, 888961-125-4. August titles include Up and The classic 1988 Lunar Calendar ("Dedicated
T Doing: Canadian Women and Peace ($12.95 pb 0- to the Goddess in her many guises") is out and
88961-130-0) and From Private to Public: A Femi- in traditional spiral form. Order from Luna
nist Exploration of Early Mothering ($11.95 pb Press, Box 511 Kenmore Station, Boston MA 02215.
0-88961-128-9). Imagining Women: Short Fiction, $12. 40% for 10-49 copies, 45% for 50-99, 50%
edited by The Second Story Collective, will be for 100+. Luna also has posters, cards and but-
out in September ($10.95 pb 0-88961-124-6). Not tons. Write for information.
September 1988 60 Volume 11 Number 3
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
Kitchen Table has two titles this fall: Alaskan explorer and author, weaves a wonderful
Desert Run: Poems and Stories by Mitsuye Yamada tale of adventure, reflections on the Arctic
(Camp Notes and Other Poems) and Seventeen Syl- landscape, and memories of growing up in a
lables and Other Stories by Hisaye Yamamoto. |In household of women adventurers." $8.95, Oct. 0-
Desert Run, Yamada explores many aspects of her 943127-01-7. Order from Bergamot Books, PO Box
identity as a Japanese American woman and once 7413, Minneapolis MN 55407, Bookpeople or In-
again scrutinizes the experience of the concen- land.
tration camps, this time by returning to the
terrain of the desert itself. Using stunningly
precise language, Yamada paints the emotional ARCTIC
and physical landscape of a woman who can never DAUGHTER
take her own safety nor that of her home for
granted. $7.95 pb 0-913175-12-9; $17.95 cI 0- A Wilderness Journey
913175-13-7.
Seventeen Syllables brings together for the
first time fifteen stories that span Hiôisaye
Yamamoto's forty-year career. Yamamoto depicts
with elegance, humor, and compassion, people
whose dreams are shattered both by oppression
and the the particular limitations- oftheir
characters. In 1986 Yamamoto received the Amer-
ican Book Award for Lifetime Achievement from
The Before Columbus Foundation. $9.95 pb O0-
913175-14-5; cloth 0-913175-15-3. Kitchen Table
Women of Color Press, PO Box 908, Latham NY
12110. Also IN/BP, etc.. I remember talking to Kay Hagan at an ABA
convention years ago about the book on journal
writing she was developing . At that time she
Bergamot Books' second title is Arctic was a partner at Charis Books (Atlanta), and we
Daughter: A Wilderness Journey by Jean Aspen. talked of the difficulties of doing one's own
I've heard bits and pieces of this manuscript writing while running a bookstore and selling
over the last year, and it sounds like a worthy and promoting the work of others. On the surface
successor to Rivers Running Free. "Equipped with it hardly seems to be a contradiction, but the
good motherly advice ('Never shoot a moose in practical aspects of it were certainly chal-
the river'), a canoe full of supplies, and a lot lenging... l| wondered (and still do) if one can
of courage, Jean Aspen and her companion paddle do both at the same time. Kay's book Internal
up an unknown river in Alaska to build a cabin Affairs is finished and published, but the ques-
in the Brooks Range and live off the land. They tion still remains. She is currently working as
stay four years. Arctic Daughter chronicles a teacher, a consultant for feminist businesses
their first year of near starvation and life in all over the country, writing -- but no longer
a tent at 40 below zero as they struggle to make working in the bookstore. Internal Affairs: A
a home in a harsh but beautiful land. Jean, Journalkeeping Workbook for Self-Intimacy is an
daughter of Connie Helmericks, a well-known elegant, thoughtful, insightful, and encouraging
Number 3 61 September 1988
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsWoman-identified erotica is still hard to book that grew out of Kay's journal-keeping
write, hard to publish, and hard to find. What classes. Chapters on hope, fear, memory, in-
is women's erotica? Erotic to whom? Erotic by ternal voices, spirit, sharing wisdom, personal
whose standards? Given that there are still very maps, and an afterword, "Journalkeeping as Rev-
few volumes of women's erotica, each new one is olutionary Act," serve as guides through
important and will receive considerable atten- troubled places and encourage the writer in
tion and comment. Herotica, edited by On Our greater self-awareness. Exercises are insight-
Backs editor Susie Bright and published by Down ful, and the entire book is. nurturing -of spirit.
There Press, will be no exception. It's a col- Available by direct order only, but well worth
lection of twenty-one stories by twenty authors, the effort. $15.95, spiral bound, 130 pages, 0-
about a third of the stories are lesbian and 9620676-0-1. 40% for 5+ books. Order from Esca-
several feature bisexuals. There are flash- padia Press, NE #6, Atlanta GA
backs, out-of-body travels, commuter trains and 30307.
science fiction. It's a wide range of stories
that I| wanted to like. It includes some good
jokes, some surprise endings (and middles), and
even a sly bit of consciousness raising here and
there. (If, as some sex educators insist, 'por-
nography is education", then certainly erotica
can be too.) I| especially appreciated
Alman's "Big Ed" and Jesse Linnell's ("Sex
But the more | read, the more irritated |
became. | most want images of passion in long- Kay is also pioneering another new form of
t de erm si, r ec ,o m lm | i t tte hd i n r kel ,a t io in ns h i tp hs, i sa c ao gm em o on f e n Aou IDgh S. But the f se em riin ei ss t op fu b li es ih gin hg t: " fFu eg miti iv ne i sI tn f o er sm sa at yio sn " t i hs a a t will be
o h tn e irl cy e a s i ne ix sv o li v on e nd l lo ytn h g i - r ft de o r rm p a r sr ti ie e nl sa .t g i o lO en K ss ,h . i p s Bos u t m th aa y t o b ne| l f e yo r u o n - td wo of the p S Cu p ob rl di is enh :e gd C a h1s 9 a l9p la 0 em . n p gh S il u net b gs j e b c Ie nttw s t e e e rin n n c aA l lu u it zdu em e d n " OC19 pr8 pa8 c r k ean sid n sig o n "t ,h e "A
stories, neither of them lesbian and neither of Feminist Looks Beyond Co-Dependency," "Intimacy
them featuring single women, include safe-sex and the Prison of Illusion," "Feminist Strategy
practices. Both of the stories appeared in the in a Patriarchal World," "The Feminist Univer-
l das et s c t rh ii prd t i oof n s t h e o f b o o uk n, p a rft oe tr e ca t en du m b he ir g hof rer iso ktic sex (i.e., s ai sty : a W Rhe er ve o W lue t iA ol nl a H ra yv e ATe cn tu "r ,e , " a n"J do u r "n Pa rlk ae yep ei rng s to the
female to male oral sex with an absolute Moon: Reconnecting with Nature." Subscription
stranger). Encouraging women to be fully sexual price for the series is $25.00 or $3.00 for the
is one of the goals of feminism, but fully first essay. Make checks out to Kay and order
sexual, in these times, means safe sex in all from the address above. "Fugitive Information,"
its glorious manifestations. The lesbian selec- by the way, is a name taken from computer jar-
tions irritated me as well. All of the stories gon, referring to information that is 'lost' in
in which a woman sets out to have sex with the system. It does not respond to the program-
sa hun b eo mt th eie s rr s oi o sw n e o x m d uya ann la m p sr ic te ss o,u r m o ir eed s b e o ii n nt dh cae g lr ue . d d o eOm dnl i yn sa n utc w ce o h a n o f dd y t nhe amics m o vw eer ln o's p ic w nom gilm l ,a a n d t s fh, ee mb nu t i n da iip ssp tae pa r vps ie sao in r o s n t h we i n is t c h r ae oe un p t ao f ta r i i t ats rr ca hce a. l De-
(including one, "Police Protection," that was a wcorrld e isa tlikien glgim ps inigt f.ugitive information and
great revenge story but not a theme | found
erotic), leaving me to wonder why straight women
get so much wider a spectrum of interest and I've been hearing for some time about Seven
desire than lesbians. | wanted more from Chalk Hills (the first book of a trilogy) by
Herotica than I! got. $8.50 0-940208-11-3. Down Heart Warrior Chosa. The books are published by
There Press, PO Box 2086, Burlingame CA 94011. Bearhand Publishing and informally distributed.
Also BP & IN. Books cost $10.00. Stores are free to mark them
Volume 11 Number 3
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
EN
SEa
up appropriately. (ClaireLight sells them for T. And speaking of celebrating the goddesses
$15.) Grapevine has it that the second book of life, Tee Corinne's Cunt Coloring Book should
should be out by now. I haven't seen them, so | be available as you read this. This expanded,
can't give you much of an idea of what they're multi-lingual edition contains all of the origi-
about except to say that they're very well spo- nal drawings as well as many new images, Martha
ken of by booksellers who stock extensive work Shelley's introduction, and text in English,
by Native American women. Does anyone who has | French, Spanish and German. The Cunt Coloring
the book(s) want to do a review? No minimum. | Book sold 6000 copies between 1975 and 1981 when
Order from Heart Warrior at Bearhand Publishing, it was reprinted as LabiaFlowers and published
PO. Box 355, Ely MN. 55731. by Naiad. In her foreword, Corinne discusses the
book's feisty, controversial titles and the
disastrous effects of choosing a more moderate
(and better behaved) title for the second edi-
tion. $6.95, 0-86719-371-9. This edition is pub-
lished by Last Gasp, 2180 Bryant St., San Fran-
cisco CA 94110. Last Gasp also distributes the
following lesbian comics: Dynamite Damsels by
Roberta Gregory ($2.00), Come Out Comics, Dyke
Shorts, and Are Your Highs Getting You Down by
Mary Wings ($1.50 ea.). (Shelve Wings' comics
next to her mystery She Came Too Late. Are Your
Highs is probably my all time favorite comic
book and probably the most effective tool for
alcohol and drug consciousness raising in the
dyke community.) 40% for 5+. Also at BP and IN.
Volcano Press is republishing Mayumi Oda's More in the erotica department: Working
Goddesses this fall. Oda reimagines the gods | Girl's Datebook 1989 by Nicole Ferentz. A very
from traditionally masculine Buddhist mythology nicely designed (but casual looking) calendar
into delightful, round, sensuous, joyous female full of good dyke humor (whole days disappear
life-cełebrating visions. Her goddesses frolic from the month under a cartoon of one dyke
through fields of flowers and vegetables, ride saying "I think I'm totally over it! I don't
bicycles and birds, challenge the waves of the | even think about her anymore!!") and humorous,
ocean.... A lyrical, political autobiography ac- | tender, sometimes erotic, often sexually ex-
companies the art. Oda is the best-known female plicit drawings. I| especially liked "Bound by
Japanese silk-screen maker and this is one of Memories", with at least one woman's ex- orches-
the loveliest books I know. $14.95 pb, 80 PP., | trating from the back of her head.... Erotica is
color art, 0-912078-82-0. Volcano has also pub- | never simple, though. Some women will dislike
lished a new, updated edition of Menopause, | the calendar for the oral sex/bondage drawing.
Naturally with a new price, $11.95, and a new | Theoretically someone who likes the rest of the
ISBN 0-912078-83-9, and will accept returns of | calendar could just not open the "centerfold"
the old edition for credit. (Keep that informa- flap that covers it -- but she won't. Tearing it
tion current!) Volcano Press, PO Box 270, Vol- | out won't help; if the illustration goes, so
cano CA 95689. BP, IN, etc. does the whole month of May.... $9.95. Order
Volume 11 Number 3 63 September 1988
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
from Nicole Ferentz, 3321 N. Lincoln Suite #54, tour with Nikki in the province of Quebec,
Chicago IL 60657 or from Inland. Carole is finally confronted by the truth of
Nikki's past and present. With her love for
Nikki deepening, she must now make crucial and
irrevocable decisions about Nikki and their
future together." $8.95, 0-941483-17-7. In Octo-
ber Obsession by Meredith More, Laura Westmore-
land discovers the diary of her missing Aunt
Josie. The diary reveals Josie's rich, secret,
fantastic relationship with a mystical being
named Selene who, during the fullness of the
moon each October, joined Josie for the pas-
sionate consummation of their love. Agonized by
the apparent delusions of her aunt, increasingly
apprehensive about what may have happened to
her, Laura must also wrestle with her own pain-
ful conflict: her inability to accept a declara-
tion of love from her dearest friend, Jackie,
and to acknowledge the nature of her own feel-
ings for Jackie.... $8.95, 0-941483-18-5.
v Cleis Press' fall titles are The Shape of
The Red: Insider/Outsider Reflections by Ruth Hub-
bard and Margaret Randall and AIDS: The Women
syndicated column of the same name. Lee covers edited by Ines Rieder and Patricia Ruppelt. The
the lesbian and gay scene from coast to coast, Shape of Red is a five year conversation between
from inside our bookstores to inside our bars, two friends, scientist/teacher Hubbard and wri-
gf o lur of io wd m e dl o c h va t em oe u r,p r f i l tr te he ha r rr ot ouno g ui hnc g o hg v ce on nt tt o het mo e p lc oia srvr a eee r ce yr r s s e , do t yb in k et hero d a l o uy man n . d t - F s - oo lu - t os fo r t f a mof o u a s o wdt fe oe rr fi l/ d dine p n aeh t rdi oo t uyt n o a dg a s n r ud a " s p it n -h h -se e i r adw n e d a ryR ss ea " v n w e nd e a a n bl a dl r y, e o"ae ul ox l r, u sp e t lel vso v eier d sr .i y en r " g Wd s "a h y at , th be y n to ht eion
writers, through "Gay Lit", "Portraits," "Gay you have here is not the shade of red, but the
0R -i 9t 4e 1s" 4 8 3a -n 2d 7 - 4" .The Geography of Being Gay." $8.95, s o 3un 9d 4 1 o 6f - 1 r 8e -d 2... ; th $e 2 4 s .h 9a 5p e co lf 0re -d 9." 3 9 $ 49 1.9 65 - 1p 9b - 00- .
The Finer Grain by new Naiad writer Denise
O sphi eo c tlo ivok es a tt h ale nsb ia mn o l sif te f or fo m o ua r y o wun rg ie tr e rp ser . - The Finer l le ivc et sio n h a vb ey bw eo enm e in r r ef vr oo cm ab lt yw e cl hv ae n gc eo du n btr yi e s A Iw DSh .o s Ie t
G tr ha ein ote pll ps r eth se s i vta ele co of n a f iy no eu sn g o w fo m aa n s mesc aa lp li n g town for o Af Rf Cer , s w t oh me e ne x p we hri oe n ac re es Hof IV w po om sie tn iv ew , h wo o mha ev ne wA hID oS / have
college, only to find the reality of her recur- cared for husbands, brothers, lovers, friends
ring nightmare exposed to the brutal light of and children until their deaths from AIDS, women
day in a women's studies class. And she is who work in the sex industry as prostitutes and
panicked by her attraction .to the class' brash, as advocates for prostitutes, women who work as
confident, open lesbian. Naiad calis this novel AIDS activists, as physicians, nurses, case
"an impressive debut of a significant new voice workers, therapists, antibody test counselors,
in lesbian literature. She promises to be an and lesbian AIDS workers who are educating their
exciting chronicler of lesbian life: in the 1980s communities. Writings come from the U.S., Haiti,
and beyond." $8.95, 0-941483-11-8. Nicaragua, Brazil, England, West Germany, Swit-
Naiad's two summer romances are High zerland, Denmark, The Netherlands, Austria,
Contrast, by Jessie Lattimore, set in the ap- Zimbabwe, and the Philippines. Oct. $9.95 pb 0-
parently conflicting worlds of academia and 939416-21-2; $24.95 cI 0-939416-20-4. Cleis
exotic strippers.... "On an adventure-charged Press East, PO Box 8933, Pittsburg PA 15221;
September 1988 Volume 11 Number 3
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
9C 4le 1i 1s 4 . W Ae ls st o, BP PO , B INox . 14684, San Francisco CA H isi s t to hr ey , f ie rd stit e bd o ob ky b L yu a Wna o mD ee ne w a rn itd e K Pa rt ee sl sl . K Wei rn ie tg te, n
by activists from all over Wales, it includes
PR articles on women in writing, publishing and
films; women, work and training, women's roles
in the slate quarry and miners' strikes; women
Healt hW a r bn yin g : C lD aa uti dn eg t tM ea y M B ce S H ha az nar ed o u is s to t h Y eo u r first full wan omd e n s 'so c ceia nl t e rw s, e glf roa ur pe s, a nh do u cos nin feg r; e n ca en s. d $ 1 0r .e 95ports from
length book I've seen on addressing the issue of p ab t 0 t-8 h7 e00 2 O4- s0 l1 o-X . I nW to em re nn aw tr ii ote n aP lr e s Fs e mwa is n a in stn o u Bnc oe od k Fair.
d c a bhe ta oes t oa se l kw i n hb r g ey aa mtp pe pw. h r hh o a aI cpit sc ep i h s z e s ed n ; s e s t f ,h ai tnn e hw de a s h ti s mo s t u wh ee i ote t h m h op h edar ns a so p b pc nol eoe f enmm e s de p r t a net on v oo d e t a n nl t ti pdgh i uo he tnt w .; p h u r Tl y poo h ;o- e k wts ih te h dT p p ir hh so le tejy re t i c s b t w u b te i y er n d e a H bnin a ydcs kp Tn air b uee oy rd u n t a ( b rp oy lu o u b c nl at i dlh s h e wi in noC g re k Ln b i ot no nr goe dk p o sr nc i l ) s a ae s n a s n dp dpu epb oa tl pi m hs l eh e- ,ing
ca on ny v ink cin e d w o of m ed na t i tn hg a t a b tu hs ee y. T arh ee nst oo tr i ae ls o n i en , i at r e w nil ol t W a cr oeo -m ote o pn e' s e r s atC a to b im l vism eh u n a ii nt y W o WP mr e ae ns ls e's s i ,n C o m cD ru m eb ul ai n tn i e. t y T e h p me uir b p l i lg s oho yia nls mg ent for
t t Mo r o ob tll a h m eoe rf f o Ctr h o ueb i re ri an gg el i a v b Peu ss re . e d s, $ s ,9a n . 9d 1 5 5c 3a n p 3 b r Ie lg 0 la i-i nn 9 o4 c i1o s3n - 0 S0 t- .0 , 8 - R0 a. cine w coom nfen i n i en d t h te o f i meld e nof ), p u tb ol is h idin eg n t(t ir fa ydi ,t io n pa rll oy duce, and
WI 53405. BP/IN. distribute community based self-financing pub-
lications and women's writing, and to publish in
English Welsh. Initial funding came from the EEC
Torrance Publishing Company is a new, (European Economic Community) Women's Bureau.
women-owned company formed to publish a new, Womenwrite's initial publication was Homeworking
revised edition of Judith Fein's Are You a Tar- Information Booklet for South Glamorgan. A Guide
get? A Guide to Self-Protection and Personal to Training Opportunities for Girls and Women a
Safety (originally published by Wadsworth). The book about drug uses written by and for young
book places special emphasis on the psychology people, and a Welsh novel may also be in print
of resister behavior, physical defense (86 ac- at this time.
tion photos), the use of non-lethal self-defense
weapons (tear gas and stun guns) and rape pre-
vention. $12.95 pb, 0-929523-00-8. 40% for 5-24
books. Torrance Publishing Co., PO Box 218,
Duncan Mills CA 95430. Also at Bookpeople and
E
Dalennau is an exporting distributorship | 1 3AWMNOIL0SAIH 1N3238 NNO 30 AHWIN3WNJOG v
which was set up to market books for Welsh
publishers. Three of their titles might be of Cadwaladyr first
interest to feminist bookstores: book.
Women in Wales: A Documentary of Our Recent
September 1988
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
woman who left Wales as a young girl to go into Also by Charlene Brown: Clearing Your
s ae nrv di ce i nin t e E lln ig gla en nd c ea ,n d e w xh eo r, t et dhr o hug eh r h e inr f v li usi eo nn ce on all C Mr .Bed .Ait .: , O Cr .P .AH .o ,w o rt o B MRe Wpa . i r C lY eao ru ir n g C r pe rd oi vt i d W es it bh ao su it c an
who came into contact with her. Historically, information about the credit world, credit re-
t th ime e m so ps et n ti n at se r e as t Bin ag la c lp aa vr at no uf r s t eh e i n b o to hk e Cis r imhe er a fp oo rr t los a, n s d ae na dl i n reg fi n aw nci it nh g , d ete cb . t 1 0 0c o pl gle s.c t $o 5r .9s 5, , applying
War at the age of 65." $8.95 pb 1-870206-00-2. 0-929230-00-0. Published by United Resource
Honno was officially launched in February, 1987. Books. Order from B&T.
Honno's other title, Fuwch ar y Lein, the auto-
biography of Welsh writer Hafina Clwyd, is pub-
lished in Welsh. "Honno" is Welsh for "her" or
"that woman."
Safwn Gyda'n Gilydd: We Stand Together is an
oversized, staple bound, bilingual book in Welsh
and English describing the Blaenau Ffestiniog
Quarry Workers' strike as seen by the women of
the Quarry Workers Support Group. $7.50 pb 0-
9511647-08.
All three books are distributed by Dalennau,
C12 y m P ra ur /c- Wy ar l- ea sf . o n T, r a dC ea e r tf ey rmrd sd i n ar, e D 4y 0f %ed t oS A 3 es1 t a bIR liL s, hed Í St
accounts, 60 days. 40% to new accounts, full
p ia ny gm .e n At bd ou ve e w it ph r io cr ed se r ; a r35 e% " w la/ n dpr eo df "o r m pa r ii cn ev o ic w- ith no Art Ag I ak inon st, Ath pe a r tp hu eb il di s h ae nr ns o uo nf c e I sk o Wn e M Sa tg aa nz din e O, u rand
duty for bookstores to pay. Payment may also be Ground: Three Women, Their Vision, Their Poems
made via VISA cards (yes, even for wholesale -- by Kimiko Hahn, Gale Jackson, and Susan Sherman
Visa does the currency exchange and no one has with artwork by Brazilian artist Josely Car-
to stand in line at the bank....) valho. Says Grace Paley, "This is really an
unusual book, hardly imagined in a world of
literary and human separation. Three women,
MAGAZINES = CR three poets, one Black, one white, one Asian
O —ŁĂńùdOO 7 American, talk to one another about how and why
they work. They listen to each other. And then
Having survived its first year, Political w ane d h a v le i t em ra an ry y b e dau it fif fu el r ep noe cm es . in A n al dl t th hei er s er a ci ca ll ear dif-
Woman magazine is going national for year #2. ferences make for a marvelous song." $9.95, 0-
Political Woman, edited by Charlene Brown and 945368-00-3. Ikon, PO Box 1355, Stuyvesant Sta-
Sally Marshall Corngold is a non-partisan, quar | tion, NY NY 10009. Also IN, BP. Ikon #9 (Fall/
terly journal that discusses current topics of Winter 1988/89) will be a special anthology
critical interest to women: government/politics, compiled by Asian Women United focusing on the
business/finance, health/science/environment, Asian American Women's community with round-
culture/books/theatre. In the "Facing Off" tables on sexuality, work, older women, and art,
column experts debate issues from different | fiction, poetry and more. Ikon #8 Journeys in-
perspectives. Recent topics include abortion, | cludes a photography/journal "Igorata: The Women
apartheid, contra aid, euthanasia, AIDS, por- of Corillera" (The Philippines) by Trix Rosen,
nography. Political Woman is published by a í photos by Nicaraguan photographer Claudia Gor-
volunteer staff for the purpose of educating and dillo, prose by Meena Alexander, Beth Brant, and
involving women in social and political issues. Kate Millett; poetry by Marjorie Agosin, Karen
It's a mid-line journal exploring feminist Brodine, Rachel Guido de Vries, Kimiko Hahn,
issues for the unconverted. Excellent color Achy Obejas; and "Poetry and Recovery" an inter-
covers. $2.50. 50% discount to bookstores for view with Joan Larkin by Elly Bulkin discussing
5I+.r Pvoliitnicael W oCmAan, 459212 7Ca1mp5u.s D raivlec #o3h88o, linitsermsect i onas n bdetw e ern ewcriotinvg e arndy p.u b li©shing and
September 1988 66 Volume 11 Number 3
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
E Do A
AN Women's Movements of the World is a refer-
ence book rich with the statistics of women's
lives in over 200 countries. Scanning, one Lindsay MacRae, and Sylvia Paskin, creates a
learns that women gained the right to vote in space for women writing poetry about sexual love
Guyana in 1966; that large areas of Lesotho are -- woman to woman and woman to man. Contributors
suitable only for herding, traditionally a male come from a wide range of cultures and back-
profession, which fact allows more girls than $7.95 pb 0-87226-201-4. Both Watchers
boys to attend school; that feminism has been of and Seekers and Dancing were originally pub-
more influence in Hungary than in most other lished by The Women's Press/London. Order from
Eastern bloc countries and that, in recent years Peter Bedrick Books, 125 East 23rd St., NY NY
such sensitive issues as lesbian relationships 10010. Distributed by Publishers Group West.
have been a subject of films by women directors.
Addresses of women's organizations (usually
government organized or traditional) follow
short summaries of women's conditions in each ÀINT I
country: looking under The United Kingdom, one A WOMAN! WATCHERS
c Wan f ei nn 'sd Pt eh ae a d Cd ar mes ps af no dr tt hh ee FG er mee inn ih sa tm iC bo rm arm o n 2 . B4vA4K 4 % Èt SO EEisiE rK EDiRASN TCHINEG
o m c e L y as
well as the Methodist Women's Association. WNOMEEN S W CRERATIIVTEI NTIGGHT R OPRE
Edited by Sally Schreir. Contributors include AROUND BLAS K a ESVE
Fran Hoskin and Cathy Jenkins. $95.00. (Gulp!) WOMEN =, PÕENS
Distributed in the U.S. by Oryx Press. 0-89774- EdTited UbyR v WOMEN
58085-60. 0(22414) . N o rith Central Ave, Phoenix AZ A i Me rW leR h C a o€n lld i nay s C r Soa b h HBa lum inrjl diu s r a1d sh , M N a R aT ,
EEEE H Svkia askin
ZN: ZN Z3:
CZ ITG Heinemann Educational has new editions of
Africa writer Bessie Head's Maru and When Rain
Clouds Gather (0-435-90727-1). Maru telis the
OK, affordable books: Peter Bedrick Books story of an orphaned Masarwa girl who discovers
launched a new line of women's books this sum- that even in the remote Botswana village where
mer. Ain't I A Woman: A Book of Women's Poetry she has gone to teach, her own people are
From Around the World edited by lllona Linth- treated as outcasts. A story of love and in-
waite was originally published by Virago Press trigue that combines a portrait of loneliness
in the U.K. ($14.95 cl 0-87226-187-5). Watchers with a rich affirmation of the mystery and
and Seekers: Creative Writing by Black Women spirituality of life. 0-435-90719-0. Juletane,
edited by Rhonda Cobham and Merle Collins by Myriam Warner-Vieyra (translated from the
(Angel) collects Black women's poetry and prose French by Betty Wilson), is a strongly feminist
from Africa, the Caribbean, England, India, novel set in the West Indies and Africa. "A
Pakistan and China. $8.95 pb 0-87226-202-2. powerful and moving novel portraying with great
Number 3 September 1988
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
= ` sensitivity the complexities of cross-cultural
relationships and the female predicament." 0-
435-98979-0. Theoretically available from Heine-
Were discounting mann Educational, 70 Court St., Portsmouth NY
03801.
an old friend...
Dufour Editions (Booksellers and Publish-
ers) continue to import interesting books in-
Special to feminist bookstores: cluding An Aquarium of Women a collection of
short stories by Bjørg Vik, one of Norway's most
A limited number of copies of the original popular and well-established writers and "a
$ ce o1d p.i 5t y0io n me a ico nhf i m IT uNH mCE L ; U A mDS I uNS sE G tR T bFI eV R E E p I rGW eH pO T aiM . d ;A F N i av v e aa it lable p Ni oo rn wee ar y o if n t th he e r ee a- re lym e r 7g 0'i sn ."g Tf he em i nn ii nst e m sto ov re iem s e n tht a tin
direct from Impact only. Expires 12-31-88. make up this collection form a cycle with each
180 pages Softcover 0-915166-21-6 cluster of three stories grouped around a common
experience, a similar time of crisis and con-
For customers who want the latest: flict in the lives of the women involved. Themes
include growing up, falling in love and bearing
THE ASSERTIVE WOMAN children, splitting up or struggling on, growing
A ST Seh rte iv e l A A g A NS e Iw P hLeolposk, M.S.W. & o t loil td gl ye a n i ond f td mhy i oi sn d e g s r. e n r $ i e1 Ds2 a. 9 ni5 is s h p N b o w o1 M m-8 a en7 n0 's '0 s 4 L1 la- itn0 e1 d r- , a1 t . ua n rA e n a o n et dth ih te o er - d
by Annegret Heitmann. $18.95 pb 1-870041-05-4.
A Hiu! Lak Dufour has also brought in two collections
mss (lovers, family, friends). of Scottish women's writings: Original Prints:
“| 256 pages Softcover Volume Ill: New Writing from Scottish Women
($8.95 pb 0-948275-30-8) and The Other Voice:
New and recent titles of interest: S 0c -o 9tt 4is 8h 2 7W 5o -m 31en -' 6s ; W $r 2it 7in .5g 0 S in cc le 018 -0 98 4 8($ 21 72 5.9 -5 3 9p -b 1), both
published in Scotland by Polygon. Original
Don't DO PN .S’ . T I t ’sS W AIlE SA mT al l T StH ufE f SMALL STUFF pP or ein mt s o nw o u bl ed in gb e C ew lto ir ct -h A f t rh oe -C ap rr ii bc be e ao nf aJ loa nc ek ,i e b uK tay's
Hweat the Michael R. Mantell, Ph.D. the rest of the volume holds up equally well.
Su ‘Lighten W le a iur sepn i’ n c g oau nnt sode l t aeok nne j odt oyh ze e n ls sim f oaefll lms it fu eof r f p er i on bb l eys mtr si :de! T ath e p at sw t o a nb do o k ps r e sp ea nir te d i n t o ag e ct oh ue nr t rg yi v e r a ra e lyso l i md e nlo -ok
alcohol, anxiety, divorce, drugs, illness, tioned in U.S. published collections....
parenting, relationships... 1988 Order from Dufour Editions, PO Box 449,
Mcha R Martat, PhD: 256 pages Softcover Chester Springs PA 19425. 40% for 5+.
GETTING APART TOGETHER
The Couple’s Guide to a Fair Divorce or Timepiece is a powerful novel by Caribbean
S Me ap ra tr ia nt i o Kn ranitz, M.A. w Lir ti et re ar r y J a Pn ri ic ze e S (ah gin aie nb so tu r sn oe m. e I t s tw ifo fn o t ph pe o s iG tiu oy na ,na
s tC e oo t u t np lel eme gs o e t nc it aa tn e b e p cfr ooe -rp pea a r r te eh n e tt y ih n e g i sr ,e e c o uw a snn t o daf yta t ,i o r r pn re oy p. e r H tyow , iI n'm g bto el hd i. n) d W th hi ele c w lor seit i n tig e s o f of a f ay mou iln yg aw ndo m va in ll a gle eav-
support, insurance, finances, taxes. 1987 to take up a job as a reporter in Georgetown,
174 pages Softcover $8.95 0-915166-58-5 Shinebourne explores the connections between
personal and political integrity, the dualities
Major wholesalers or direct. Write for bookseller catalog. of urban and rural, of the sexes, and of
Impact 8 Publishers Guyana's two countries: the 'high color' 'fair-
USK ARIYANA ASA skin' middle class and the 'dark' working-class.
(pb 0-948833-03-3.) Her second book, The Last
English Plantation, should be out by now as
68 Volume 11
September 1988
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
well. Published by Peepal Tree Press, 53 Grove rights at the auction, so watch for a forthcom-
Farm Crescent, Leeds LS16 6BZ, Yorkshire, Eng- ing paperback edition.
land. Distributed in the U.S. by Three Conti-
nents Press, 1636 Connecticut Ave. NW, Fifth The third revised edition of The Black West
Floor, Washington DC 20009. i cn ac nlu d e Ws ea s tch . a p Tte hr e ron e 's B la jc uk s t w o em ne on u gin h t h ie n fA om re mri- ation to
Cosmina, by Grazia Deledda, is the story of point out how very much we're missing. $14.95
an aspiring young writer growing up in Sardinia pb, Open Hand Publishing, 600 East Pine, Suite
during the last decades of the nineteenth cen- 565, Seattle WA 98122. Inland.
tury when formal education was rare and literary
careers unheard of. Based on the author's own
life, it describes the writer's struggle against
the dismay and disapproval of her family and
friends at the creative ambitions of the young
girl. In 1926 Grazia Deledda became the second
woman and the second Italian to receive the
Nobel Prize for literature. Her work is almost
entirely unknown to American readers. Translated
by Martha King. Published by Italica Press, a
new small press specializing in English transla-
tions of Italian and Latin works from the Middle
AMgaeins tSot r etehte #pr6e4s1e,n tN. Y $ 9N.5Y0 1p0b0 4 04-.934977- 06- 2. 603 nueva, T ish ae n U enl gt ar ga inv gi o ele xpt l o rS ak tioy n, ob f y t h eA l tm roua - Luz Villa-
bled relationships between women and men seen
In Afro-American Women Writers: 1746-1933 through a series of turbulent events in the life
Ann Allen Shockley documents the lives and pre- of the novel's main character, a painter named
sents selections from the works of 36 Afro- Rosa. Rosa's dilemma is twofold: as artist she
American writers: all known authors from 1746 strives to paint an ineluctable lilac sky that
through the Civil War, as well as every major seems to defy completion; as a woman she strug-
writer from 1868 to the end of the Harlem gles through separation from her husband, her
Renaissance. Collected here are works by recog- son's sexual awakening, an unexpected estrange-
nized poets and novelists plus a wealth of newly ment from her best friend and un unplanned preg-
discovered or previously inaccessible writings nancy. Villanueva is known for her feminist
by neglected Black women writers -- slaves, poetry. $14.95 pb 0-916950-85-9. Cloth also
ministers, educators and others. An overview of available. Bilingual Press, Hispanic Research
each author's life and writings (often revealing Center, Arizona State University, Tempe AZ
new information) and a list of primary and sec- 85287. Also available from Arte Publico Press,
ondary sources preface each selection. An excel- University of Houston, Houston TX 77004.
lent resource for bookstores, as well. Shockley At the time of her death (1974) Rosaria Cas-
is an associate librarian, university archivist tellanos was considered Mexico's most important
and associate professor of library science at modern woman poet and exponent of feminism.
Fisk University. Her fiction includes Loving Meditation on the Threshold is a bilingual edi-
Her, Say Jesus and Come to Me, and The Black and tion of her collected poetry. $10 pb. :
White of It. Currently available from G.K. Hall Previous titles from Bilingual include The
($40 cI. 0-8161-8823-8). NAL won paperback Cat and Other Stories by Beverly Silva, "about
Number 3 September 1988
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
loving strife and striving lovers giving these
experiences a voice and expressing the anxie-
ties, interests, and feelings of women in a
Fall 1988 changing world." ($7, 0-916950-69-7); The Mix-
quiahuala Letters by Ana Castillo, an epistolary
novel focusing on the correspondence between two
FEMINIST IN THE DARK: Reviewing the Movies, byKathi tH hi esp a sn ei xc e s w co om ne cn lu d p inr gob i wng it h t h ae pr oe wla et rio fn us lh i ap n d b e et mw oee -n
Maio. A collection of reviews by noted feminist critic and writer. tionally gripping evocation of sexual warfare
160 pp. b/w photos, index. 0-89594-322-0, $7.95 paper. 0-89594- ($8 pb 0-916950-68-9; $13.95 cl 0-916950-67-0);
323-9, $23.95 cloth. and Nosotras: Latina Literature Today edited by
THROUGH OTHER EYES:Animal Stories by Women, edited by Baria del Carmen Boza, Beverly Silva and Carmen
Irene Zahava. A collection of stories about kinship between Valle, a collection of work by 35 women from all
animals and humans. 220 pp. 0-89594-317-X, $8.95 paper. 0- the major Latina communities in the U.S., repre-
89594--315-8, 23.95 cloth. senting the major lifestlyes and issues con-
MUNDANE'S WORLD: A novel by Judy Grahn. A delightful, fronting Latinas today ($7.50 0-916950-63-8).
$8.95 paper. 0-89594-317-4, $26.95 cloth. Floricanto Press' first list includes
several titles on their La Mujer Latina series.
THE PROSPERINE PAPERS: A novel by Jan Clausen. A liter- Between Borders collects essays on Mexicana/
ary detective story and a tale of 'progress' from one generation of Chicana History ($23.95 pb; $32 cl 0-915745-14-
f 8em 95al 9e 4 r -e 2be 7ls 4 -t 7o , th e $ 2 n 3ex .9t. 5 2 00 c l opp t. h 0 .-89594-273-9, $8.95 paper. 0- 3 C), o mW mom oen n e o rf s M (e $x 1ic 4o .: 9 5T h e p bC ;o n s $e 2cr 5a .t 9ed 5 a cn ld t 0h -e 915745-16-X)
The Broken Web: The Educational Experience of
Hepburn with Bonnie Gutierrez. A well-informed, loving guide to Hispanic American Women ($23.95 pb; $32 cl 0-
lesbian health, covering physical, mental and social health. 220 pp. 942177-00-2) and Maravilla by Laura Del Fuego
0-89594-324-7, $10.95 paper. 0-89594-325-5, $26.95 cloth. ($12.95 pb; $19.95 cl 0-915745-15-1.) Floricanto
WCL oI mO a nB SR lO euW thN E M: yP sR tI eV ryA T E b y IN DV oE loS rT eI sG A KT oO mR o: 1A 85 pp. 0-89594-320-4, bis o o a kl ss o f op rla n cn hi in ldg r et no . d To e r ma s s e nr oie ts so ef n t .n o Fn l- os re ix ci as nt to
$6.95 paper. 0-89594-321-2, $23.95 cloth. 9P 1r 4e 3ss 6, . 16161 Ventura Blvd. Suite 830, Encino, CA
pp. 0-89594-318-2, $6.95 paper. 0-89594-319-0, $22.95 cloth.
RED FLOWER: RETHINKING MENSTRUATION: A new ZCSV =
additon to the Well Woman Series. Science, art, humor, poetry
combined to demystify this important subject. 200 pp. 0-89594- Red Sea Press ("publishers and distributors
312-3, $8.95 paper. 0-89594-313-1, $20.95 cloth. of Third World Books") has two books of particu-
NAMING OURSELVES, NAMING OUR CHILDREN: lar interest to feminist bookstores: Scraps of
Resolving the Last Name Dilemma. A feminist approach to naming Life: Chilean Arpilleras and Boys Don't Knit!.
children, by Sharon M.G. Lebell. 100 pp. 0-89594-275, $6.95 Scraps of Life, by Marjorie Agosin and trans-
paper. 0-89594-276-3, $19.95 cloth. lated by Cola Franzen, is a moving historical
account of the lives and creativity of the
REFLECTIONS: A Joumal. Illustrated, 128 pp. 0-89594-327-1, arpilleristas of Chile, the poets of applicque
and embroidery who protest their government's
reign of terror while making remarkably poignant
works of art. Chapters look at the emergence of
women in Chile; Chilean women, politics and
ZN society; the formation and birth of the work-
shops; and testimonies of mothers of the dis-
The Crossing Press appeared. $9.95 pb 0-932415-29-6; $29.95 cI 0-
932415-28-8. Boys Don't Knit! by Janice Schoop,
illustrated by Laura Beingessner, of course,
September 1988 Volume 11 Number 3
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
argues that they do. Regulating the Lives of Women by Mimi
Abramovitz retells social welfare history from a
-- but you can ask for lessons.... Ages 3-8. feminist perspective and uncovers the roots of
$4.95 pb 0-86543-077-2. Red Sea Press, 556 the feminization of poverty. Abramovitz examines
Bellevue Ave., Trenton NJ 08618. Also at Inland. the structural roots of white and minority
women's poverty and highlights the differential
Billie Holiday, by John White, is one of impact of social welfare programs on each group.
the recent titles in Universe Books' Jazz Live $15 pb 0-89608-329-2; $35 cI 0-89608-330-6.
and Times series (and the only one to feature a South End Press, 115 Botolph St., Boston MA
woman). It "offers new perspectives on her leg- 02115. BP/IN.
end by focusing on the early years in Baltimore
and her breakthrough role as the first Black Grandmother
woman to play with an all-white band in a segre-
gated society." White maintains that racism and
sexism played as great a part in Holiday's de-
mise as her much-publicized battle with drugs.
If you stock any of the "women travelers"
books, add I Didn't Hear the Dragon Roar by
Frances Parsons to your collection. "Compulsive
reading" as they say in New Zealand. It's an
autobiographical account of a sixty-year-old
deaf woman's solo tour through China via bus, GRANDMOTHER HAD NO NAME
train, and third-class accommodations. One of by Alice Lin
the gutsyest and most interesting contemporary Three generations of Chinese women. A lifetime that spans
t t nr ra a av v te e il l o e r ns ,t ao lar ni e d ss i grl' i nv ce h r awe na itd dh. A i cnn of no i r dn ms ip tai t ir i ooa nt ni so n a b aof nuo tr d i a nn ety e dr u- cation for New Chinese F I iC IS cShB ti Bn iNa No, n T 0a 0i-w -8a 8n3 3,5 5 1a 1n- -d2 2 0C 04h 35i 4n-a -7 1 a. ..g ..a .ci pnl.o apth er.. .. .$ $1 96 .9.9 55
the deaf community in China. $17.95 cl 0-930323- LAPSE OF TIME
41-6, Gallaudet University Press, 800 Florida by Wang Anyi
Ave NE, Washington DC 20002. Also at B&T. Short stories and a novella is written by a talented young
writer who relates much about life in China today.
No Way to Live: Poor Women Speak Out by ISBN 0-8351-2031-7....cloth....$16.95
Sheila Baxter is both a compelling collection of a ISBN 0-8351-2032-5....paper....$8.95
sp te ar ts io sn tia cl s s tt eo lr l ie as sa hn od c k a i n gca l l s t ot ro y :a c 4ti 1o %n . o " fT h ae ll &ar e T PABe O rOC iKH oSI dN i A cSaa n l2 s 9 ,F2 r9 aI nnTccwi.s ec no4,t 1y C5-fA/o 2u 8r9t42h1-1 2 0S 9t 9r 4eet
single women in Canada live below the poverty
line. 82% of the elderly poor are women. 49% of Giving Up the Dream, a novel by Deborah
all single-parent families headed by women are Shea, is one of the finds of the issue and is
poor, and one in three depends on welfare as a Amana Books' ("Specializing in world issues and
primary source of income. The women in this book intercultural understanding") first novel, I
are fed up. They talk about what it's like to be believe. It's the story of three working class
poor -- and what they think should be done about women coming of age in the sixties, dealing with
it." June, $9.95 pb, 0-919573-81-9; $18.95 dcl, the idealism, the hope, and finally, the reali-
0-919573-82-7. New Star Books, 2504 York Ave., ties of that time, as well as portraying a
Vancouver BC V6K 1E3. IN & BP. childhood with alcoholic parents and exploring
Number 3 n September 1988
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
the relationship between that childhood and the year. A lesbian feminist academic in her late
ideals of the sixties. It's the first discussion thirties, she has just been denied tenure. She
I've seen in print of that connection and an and her lover, Linda, have been fighting about
excellent read as well. The cover is plain in everything from non-monogamy to Linda's teenaged
the extreme and will likely need some help sell- daughter. Her job search is getting nowhere.
ing. Read a copy yourself or recommend it to a She's drinking too much.... and then she dis-
few selected customers -- | think it has a good covers the papers of her grandmother's closest
market with a bit of help. $7.95 0-915597-71-3. friend, the now long-dead Prosperine Munkers, a
Amana Books, 58 Elliot St., Brattleboro VT lesbian radical and writer who reported in the
05301. t+ ` IWW-led labor revolt on Minnesota's Iron Range
before WW |. Dale's struggles with her grand-
Crossing Press has an excellent fall line- mother for access to Prosperine's unpublished
up of feminist fiction and non-fiction, all due papers raise unsettling questions about the
out in September: nature of loyalty and betrayal in relationships
Leading the list is Judy Grahn's novel between women, the significance of words in the
Mundane's World. |'ve been hearing excerpts from face of death and silence, and the possibility
this novel for years. Images from the first of "progress" from one generation of female
is ne fc ot ri mo n m y| uh ne da er rsd ta n s dt ini gll o fli n og ure r w oi rn ld .. .m . Ly ik e mind and r$e2be3ls. 9 t5o tchle n0e-xt8. 9 $589.945 - p2b7 40--879.5 9 4E-273-9;
all of Grahn's work, the novel takes some things
that ought to be simple, things we think we
already understand, and turns them around, turns Two new titles in Crossings WomanSleuth
them in-side-out and re-presents them from a Series: Clio Browne: Private Investigator by
dozen other perspectives until it all seems Dolores Komo, features a Black private inves-
perfectly clear and obvious -- as if we had tigator and her team of likely and unlikely
known it all along. Grahn says it's a book about assistants making it through one long hot week
staying in one place and paying attention to in August. $6.95 pb 0-89594-320-4; $22.95 ci 0-
everything that lives there. | found it both 89594-321-2. Footprints by Kelly Bradford fea-
very relaxing and stimulating at the same time. tures a gay private investigator and a woman
It's my fondest hope for the holiday bestseller attorney general taking on the black baby
lists. $10.95 pb 0-89594-317-4; $26.95 cl 0- trade.... $6.95 pb 0-89594-318-2; $22.95 ci 0-
89594-316-6. 89594-319-0.
Through Other Eyes: Animal Stories by Women
edited by lrene Zahava, includes stories by
Doris Lessing, Ursula LeGuin, Annie Dillard,
Yvonne Pepin, Keri Hulme, Marty Waters, Cathy
Cockrell and Sally Gearhart. $8.95 pb 0-89594-
314-X; $23.95 cl 0-89594-315-8.
Finally in paperback: AIl Good Women,
Valerie Miner's novel tracing the lives of four
young, working-class women though World War Il,
$10.95, 0-89597-328-X; and Jane Lazarre's The
Powers of Charlotte, $8.95, 0-89594-329-8.
Crossing's non-fiction offerings include
Feminist in the Dark: Reviewing the Movies by
Kathi Maio (a feminist guide for VCR & cable
viewing!) ($7.95 pb 0-89594-322-0; $23.95 cI 0-
89594-323-9; Naming Ourselves, Naming Our Chil-
dren: Resolving the Last Name Dilemma by Sharon
M.G. Lebel, $6.95 pb 0-89594-275-5; $19.95 cil
Clausen leaves no issues unturned in her writ- 0-89594-276-3; Alive and Well: A Lesbian Health
ing, always offering commentary on contemporary Guide by Cuca Hepburn with Bonnie Gutierriz,
lesbian life. $10.95 pb 0-89594-324-7; $26.95 cl 0-89594-325- |
September 1988 Volume 11 Number 3
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
A collection of writings
by women on the current pornography
debate, with more than 200 pictures
covering the history of visual pornography
since the invention of the camera.
AUGHT
OOKING:
Feminism, Pornography & Censorship
“CAUGHT LOOKING is..….tender,
torrid, romantic, bluntly biological,
anatomically perplexing, scary, funny
and very stylish.” — THE NATION
The Real Comet Press
3131 Western Ave. #410, Seattle WA 98121-1028 206/283-7827
$9.95 paperback, perfectbound, ISBN 0-941104-23-0
* WA State residents add 8.1% sales tax.
5; and Red Flower: Rethinking Menstruation by "a superbly textured novel of
D0ena- T8ay9lor5, 9$8.495 - p3b 10-8395-941-31.2 -3 ; Á$20.95 cil
publishing firm that has recently been taken
Crossing's 1989 calendars are The 1989 over by a conglomerate.... It is a passionate
Women Writers Calendar (features Margaret Atwood exploration of the disturbing contemporary
on the front cover, along with Beryl Markham, realities of life, love and work; the difficul-
Eudora Welty, and Molly Hite) $8.95 0-89594-304- ties of honesty, intimacy, friendship; and the
2; and The Kate Gawf 1989 Calendar, $8.95, 0- problems of jealousy, sexuality, and betrayal as
89894-305-0. well as a commentary on the contemporary state
The Crossing Press, PO Box 1048, Freedom CA of conglomerate publishing." $17.50 cl 1-88897-
95019. 800-777-1048. 45% on calendars, 50% non- 104-0. Full Measure is a collection of short
returnable. Books: 40% for 5-24, 42% for 25-49, stories on aging edited by Dorothy Sennett with
43% for 50-99, 45% for 100+. a foreword by Carol Bly. Frustratingly, fewer
than a third of the stories are by women writ-
Graywolf has three interesting new titles: ers.... $10.00 pb 1-55597-105-9. Graywolf Press,
The Book of Seeing With One's Own Eyes is a 200 Dacotah Building, 366 Selby Ave., St. Paul
collection of stories by Sharon Doubiago. "This MN 55102. BP/IN, etc.
is a book of stories of an acutely intelligent
and passionate woman who won't hold back, who
fully engages love and the events of her time The Wickedest Woman in New York: Madam
(coming of age in the sixties), and who comes Restell, the Abortionist by Clifford Browder
ultimately to a hard-won sense of identity as as tells the story of how working-class English
woman. Says Alice Walker, "Sharon PDoubiago's immigrant (and shrewd business woman) Ann Lohman
stories are powerful and strong. They show us and her husband openly provided birth control
ourselves in ways we haven't seen before." $7.95 preventive powders and pills and instrument-in-
1-55597-101-6. In Becoming the Enemy Brenda duced abortions (on a sliding scale no less) to
Volume 11 Number 3 73 September 1988
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
New York City women for four decades in the mid movie with a sound track of dry humor and a
1800's. Vilified by doctors, prosecutors, the technicolor of dyke bravado. I'd frame it and
press, she denied any wrongdoing and was con- hang it in. my living room. if I could hold it
vinced that her services were beneficial. $25.00 still.... Kim is also a poet of considerable
cl, 0-208-02127-2. Shoe String/Archon, 925 Sher- local appreciation from the days before we had
man Ave., Hamden CT 06514. novels. Maybe it's time to reprint Eating Arti-
chokes and Under the Rolling Sky. They include
some excellent erotic poetry as well as Kim's
first published adventure stories.... Dead Heat,
$6.95 pb 1-55583-119-2.
Alyson has also reprinted Jane Futcher's
Crush, originally published in cloth by Little
Brown in 1981 of which FBN said, "A wonderful
high-school lesbian romance...rich with de-
veloping sexuality and attraction with the ins
and outs, true pain and joys of adolescent love.
I wish I had read it in high school." Crush got
caught in that early eighties wave of cloth
lesbian books that never made it to paperback.
Thanks to Alyson for putting this one back in
print and for sustaining a literature for gay
young people. $6.95 1-55583-139-7.
The Crystal Curtain, by Sandy Bayer, is
exactly the thriller that the Compendium women
ordered: A psychopath is out to get revenge on
the psychic whose visions led to his conviction
for a brutal murder. And his revenge plans in-
Alyson Press continues to do all clude her lover as well.... This one absolutely
important and exciting books, not the least gives me the creeps -- which | suppose is exact-
important of which are Alive and Well: A Lesbian ly what it's supposed to do. (Someone's gotta
Health Guide and Unbroken Ties: Lesbian Ex- explain the pleasures of thrillers to me some-
Lovers, but it's Willyce Kim's Dead Heat that day....) $7.95 1-55583-123-0.
steals my heart. Dead Heat picks up a while On a more serious vein, Unbroken Ties:
after Dancer Dawkins and the California Kid left Lesbian Ex-Lovers by Carol Becker picks up where
off: Dancer, trying to get back on her feet Seal Press' Lesbian Couples leaves off. (Shelve
after a broken heart, heads north to visit old together with Permanent Partners and hope that
friends in San Francisco: Ta Jan the Korean, this is the beginning of a serious trend toward
Killer Shep (the only one among them with the books discussing the variety and complexity of
full scoop on drugs), and, of course, the Kid. lesbian relationships and family in and outside
The Kid has fallen in lust with a gangster's one's current couple relationships. I| wish this
moll -- which troubles the gangster more than a book had also discussed the impact and effects
little, but a little less than the possibility of ongoing "broken" ties, as well. They, too,
that the horse his future rests on may well be impact our lives and communities. Or maybe
jb oe ca kt ee yn bb uy t t nh oe ao mne o u nri td d oe fn tb ry o u bt lh ea t s ed ea mm sn e td o g inir -l t 5h 55at 8' 3s - 1t 0h 6e - 0 .fourth book for the shelf? $7.95 1-
terest her in losing.... But it's Kim's writing
that fascinates and holds me. Her ability to
capture a complexity of actions and emotions
(never mind situation) and distill them into Incest and Sexuality, Wendy Maltz and
snapshots with a few very carefully selected Beverly Holman, D.C. Heath (Dist. by Kampmann),
words would be enough, but she scatters them 0669140856, $12.95 pb. The introduction begins:
across pages, like a photo album, until suddenly "This book has been written for survivors of
the tension drives them into a fast-paced mental incest who want to explore both how the sexual
September 1988 74 Volume 11
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
abuse may have affected their sexuality and what
they can do about it. Intimate partners of sur-
vivors and therapists who have clients who are
survivors may also find this book useful in
developing a supportive and understanding ap-
proach to sexual concerns." This is a well-
orgmanized aend nwell-wdritteen gduide.. H igh ly - reco-m-ST
New Titles
Friends of Alice Wheeldon by Sheila Row- in Women’s Studies
botham is "a play that reveals how political
activity forms a part of everyday life, claiming
equal time with the conflicts and warmth among Maureen T. Reddy
very ordinary people, some of whom become heros SISTERS IN CRIME
without ceasing being ordinary. In early 1917, Feminism and the Crime Novel
wa ts eo u rB l sdr , i t na i aen v n e drw a es h n db e,o r g Ag e l sid oc e n d o W w whn e e e rli dn eo n a , b w rh oea rr u gtit hw o tf e da tr a oued g h t- rial and e epF t sro pyoc o u t uas o sgi f in o n g n gt i hs o t e an s s, e f f et ae mh um i t is na h l ioe p sr ta s tm h pay b orrs ie nt e e a t r k r y i e on d f g e w f vir b n ii o et ino wer k g .s $s tw h 1h 7oh e .w o 9 5ms h yha sv o te w e r yc ar e ga wt ee i ndd re e f ve bam yria -le
imprisoned for plotting the assassination of
Prime Minister Lloyd George, who they believed
had betrayed the suffrage movement. In an accom- Josephine Donovan
panying 100-page essay, Rowbotham gives a his- NEW ENGLAND LOCAL COLOR LITERATURE
torical overview of the political and social A Women’s Tradition
forces that converged upon the Wheeldon family “A valuable, daring reconceptualization of an important era
ban eid n g f r si ie mnd us lt. a nS eh oe u ss lyho w sus f ft rh ae g i sg tr ,e a tt r ad di ef f uic nu il ot nie iss t ,of tin h e A am ute hr oic ra n o fl i t Fe er mat iu nr ie s. t” T— hT eoh re y W po bm k e n $’ 9s . 9 5Review of Books By
and anti-conscriptionist in the midst of a world
war." Rowbotham's Women, Resistance and Revolu- Denise Lardner Carmody
tion and Women's Consciousness, Man's World were BIBLICAL WOMAN
extremely influential in the development of the Feminist Reflections on Scriptural Texts
women's movement in the 1970's. Her most recent A new liberating look at the biblical view of women.
book Dreams and Dilemmas was published by Virago pbk $10.95
in 1986. $10.00 pb, 0-85345-728-X. Monthly Re-
view Press.
Virginia Ramey Mollenkott
WOMEN, MEN, AND THE BIBLE
American Women Writers: A Critical Refer- New Revised Edition
e fn ic re s tG u i pde u b f lr io sm h e dCo l o in nia l 1 T 9im 79es , t io s t h ne o wPr e s ae vnt a, ilable in a a“ abA no u db t a s ti h wc e op r n mi am t eue r nr e . f ”oo —fr G Tst o hu dd e y a i n n d Og t tw hhh e e a t rr e S l ac Str i ii op dnt s eu hr ie p ps r be ba kel tly w e $ep n 7r e . s 9men 5et ns
one volume, abridged edition. It won't be a hot
seller at $59.50, but would be a great reference
book to have on hand if you don't already have Lucy Freeman
the original four volume set. Each entry ín FIGHT AGAINST FEARS
American Women Writers summarizes and assesses With a new introduction by Flora Rheta Schreiber
each writers work, lists basic biographical More than a million copies sold—a new edition of the first,
dd aa tt aa , o c no m wp rle itt ee r sb ' i b nl ai mog er sa p .h ai te s , t h a en d b e gc io nm np inr geh e on fs i v ee ach a sn ed l fst -i dll i sb ces ot, v etr ru ye s t to hry r oo uf g a h m o pde sr yn c w ho om aa nn' as l yjou sr in se . y pof bk $10.95
entry -- given names, all pseudonyms and
aliases, parents' names and husband's name. The At your bookstore, or call 1-800-638-3030
ultimate crib sheet for all who still don't know A Thirty-Year Tradition of Excellence
8en 04o 4u -g 3h 1 5 7a -b 4o .u t P uw bo lim she en d v bw yr i Ute nr gs. a. r.. , $ d5 i9 s. t9 r5 i b uc tI, e d O 0 b- y CROSSROAD/CONTINUUM
Crossroads/Cont i nuum. 370 Lexington Avenue, New York, NY 10017
September 1988
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsТһе
ҒЕМІМІЅ$М УМІТНІМ ТНЕ $СІЕМСЕ & ВІ.АСК ҒЕМІМІЅ$Т СКІТІСІЅМ
НЕАІТН САКЕ РКОҒЕЅЅЗІОМ$ іуез оп ВІаск У/отеп Угііетз
Оуетсотілр Кеѕіяіапсе В2агђа7га 6 Сһ гів ќіарп, рАјг о-А т1егіс4ап 9Ѕіш аіе з,Ш Ипіу ег зіуг еој бСаШзог піа 1а! В9егк8еІе5у
1007 0 Ѕ 0и е 0р8 рУ 8 К 05о з 3з 0еў5г,п 35 еИ 55-оіт 7те 5па9'зм 5 іЅ 8піш Еда 7зііе,ез х РІіг Но с зһғ оа аат уі, г л єИо іпптсіуе ое г з 0А уйу 8р е т8оўі г1ї Ѕ 4 о1 ш .99ћ $8 5 38Саг 0ой .па 00 00 0 08 8 0 033 11 99 55 645 6 Н аЕ гдіе сох уі сс то у 0е 5т $ 3 61 .08 0516.00
178 Ғ Е ЈК роаО п М Т Е р К А А оС Ш Н зҒ сІ ЕМ ћМ шС АІ д М ,РМТ т І а сЕ Ѕ и Ис$С а)Т п Н С і и уМ ідР е еО агЕ зГ К йО $ іуС )Р Ү Е оУ С ј Т І оУ мЕ е й, 1МА988 01 04Еа 8іе2д Б 0 у 3 Т 2орп 3і А 6А р 6Е Не 9т і п Мі я сТ М Н Н 1У аЕ і ғе е ом 2п$ х ,1 о$ ії ИТ с Е ла оК і у уТ е В гШі зтО еіе уМ і те ѕО ѕ о иј С 0Моп іѕ 8лп пе 8ес і зі 1оо і п а 1, 1 .М 9і 5п9пеа8ройі5х
0 08 0342337 Еієхісомег 05814.95 0 08 0323677 Нагдсоует 55824.00
0 08 0342345 Нагдсоусг 15830.00
МЕМ$ ІОЕАЅ/УУОМЕМ?$ КЕАШТІЕ$
26 Е7де Т Ьһ уе РМ ау ё о Ѕї р ра ШКМ е оА р пг еР ор Е д а и лсТ іі О і у О є еО ђ В а опР г і аЕ ћ В С е11п .е й Ѕс і е 9пР Ьт ео гр ӯт8,е ѕ ѕ ИК7 03 08 Б 3аі іед 0 7Б 3у 1 1. 9 омі 2зе 9 М 7іРрсо һ р еи і еі а Ррт М еЅ ітс ті ее тп авс х,е , іМ 1 се8 г7 ос01у- 1 у 9 С1 о5 еП9е тре , 8 Оо 0ЬЬ 5х4 5 Ее 1ггу 6.50
0 08 0349536 Еіехісоует 08$16.50 0 08 0319300 Натдсоуег 18542.00
0 08 0349544 Нагдсоует 105$36.00
272 Ма гу К р П реЅћ ат е Мг, 3і ш И І 3 М ' аа к$ К еР 9Г сІ о іВ Кт геІ а оМ мр гі ое С п тз т ді Шр У ИУ БЊО п уіМ е у Ме Е М г М аз уи и гѕ у ае , еА У п їр еі ѕл Іоз йі оп- Ѕа 1іет, 9 М 8С 7 00 01 08 8 4 0 0ҰЎ 30 3ОМ 11А 6М 6 2 2 6ІМ 35 Т 5Н рЕ Н М и РО Ғр гЅ атЗ да іИ є сМ А о х Л Ѕ ҹаМ іф сЧ саһ гС оО 1М уЅ 1$С 5єІ9О 5тО 3$ 0 8 .1 05 04 513.50
0 08 0344747 Нехісоуег 08$12.95
0 08 0344755 Нагдсоуег 08$27.50 ЅСТЕМСЕ & СЕМОЕК
А Стійдие ої Віоору апі йз Тһеопеѕ оп Мотел
22 Едіке АдҒ Е М БуІМ КІЅ и$ Т В іА еР ђеР грК , О ИА тС іНруеЕ г$ з і гТ у О о$ /С ІЕ ММ 1 С ізЕ сопз9іл, М8ааізоп6, УІ 02 084 0 03 0 9 р 7Ки 1 р 2Віе і е г Н, И і5т еуе хг з ііг с у о Шо уј еМ тіизс о пзз 0іп 8, 5М $ай1 1ізо 5п9 .98 54
0 08 0327869 Еіехісоуєт 08812.50 0 08 0309720 Нагдсоует 0$$34.00
0 08 0327877 Нагасоуег 08$27.50
256 р Ғ р Т ЕКЕ А О ЅС М $Н и еІ ·АМ УС Ғ Е$ КМС 2о І зАІЕ М ѕ РМ е3тІ а гсЅС и ,сТ аЕ і 7 МС иР і& адс Е г у КН $ Е Р ВА ШЕ аІГ С аТ Т мН І іУ п Е С оПгереез 1986 002 6 004 8 8 0Е а 2ірй 0е 9др 2 4 Б 09у 4 Е 4 Је 9от 6з 0і а п і з 3 2КМ і Н о 0А ќР 0һС ае з тН гсз І ћ рМ де и ЕсА а си , Шу о ІЕ пеХ ѕ еі ум е хо е Д гп лЕ ті і А гТ у се г с оп о 1ео ј Ї у $о Дїр о $у ж. с 3е й т 6, .о1 0 ње 0$9 88 13 4.95
00 0088 0 30339937123 5Н1і є хНісоаугдєтс о $у8е1г6 .5 0$27.50
УОМАМ $ МАТОВЕ
002 0 001 8 8 0 Р 3ра 0ш 2і р 3і 8пе 12 В 3 Р 8 ХаВ і1 1 гаЅ і г си і 4і5 ,с а с Е Ѕ е л 8НТ ѕ 2іѕ іуО ѓ є еиР О г!Р хз ’В іІ гЅ НЧ г іуи іС сеШ г п у о о , аК і /у уА Х га !Р І а і єу д Е п$ ѓо гп еі са гх г ї е о Ср а еіі $о є уП з 8С зећ р е1еі с 2а гв о . 91 а 5п $і 9 28 95 .50 001 8 0084 8 0 3р 0 0 КЕ ыр 3й 1 і к 40Не ј и 2 1һ Б Њ 8у 2 4а гК дМ 3а 3, Ғй а о г 6Ніп 6 іа аа п е гі у х Г аг га о іН ац т со е Шп , Џ о з а п В і муо о гғ я е е о т д пІ т л з с е гИд гу ои п ,а і 0ез н уе Су $г аїз т $й сЬзу г 1 і т а а 5вп ед . 51 $09 838 63 .00
МЕМ№”$ ЅТОЭТЕ$ МОШЕЕО
ЕОРОСАТІМС ҒОК РЕАСЕ Тһе Ітрасі ог Еетіліѕт оп Ње Асадетіс Оізсірілез
192 р Врігуй Вг2оск4-Сіт2е, Ит уеШгзиіу о ] тОзеіо, х Мо гю ау1985 248 рр 8 Ед5еса0 Б у ОаШіе $р еп дегг, еИКѓх 1981
00 О0К8 ( 0033223639730 7Е і еНхісаогудесто у08є8г1 3 .$9354.00 0 00 8 0 8 0 2 06 21 61 77 75 0 Х Н і Нех аі пс іо су оует є т 1 0 1$ 0$ 51 57 $. 30 60 .00
РЕКСАМОМ РВЕ$$ Іпс. мод РЕКСАМОМ РКЕ$$ ріс
Еаігуіем Рагк, ЕІтѕГога АЎ % Неадіпгіоп НіШ Най
Мем Үогк 10523 у Охѓогд ОХЗ ОВУ
ЏОЅ$А 1а-\9 Ок
Уоһите 11 Митбег З
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFROM
THE
eir enii OI h
By Kris Hoover Most Greenwood titles are too specialized
Fall 1988 brings about the same number of to carry, but there are backlist paperbacks to
feminist titles as the past few seasons, but consider. Two of the dependable sellers are
they're spread more widely. You'll need to look former Praeger titles: Women & Language in Lit-
at places like Pittsburgh and Ohio State as well erature & Society, Borker, Furman and McConnell-
as such stand-bys as Rutgers and Yale. It's my Genet, eds., $15.95x and Barbara Christian's
impression that there's less literary criticism Black Feminist Criticism, $11.95.
and biography than we've seen lately, and that
the season stand-outs will be in the Women-Art-
and-Politics genre. Chicago, Oxford and Columbia
will all have impressive and expensive holiday
offerings in this area.
sota's A l "s Eo m pr eo rm gi esi nn tg a Lre it etw rao t un rew e s "se r i fe es. a tM ui rn en se- Adrienne buyers N fe ow r: this year are two books you might know
Kennedy's plays (Funnyhouse of a Negro, etc.) New Dimensions of Spirituality: A Biracial
and a collection of stories by Clarice Lispector and Bicultural Reading of the Novels of Toni
this fall. University of Massachusetts' forth- Morrison, Karla F.C. Holloway & Stephanie
coming "Facing the Issues" won't actually appear Demetrakopoulos, $35x. An ambitious and unusual
until at least next spring, but submissions are dialog on Morrison's writing that explores Black
being invited. The series promises a variety of versus white understandings of literature. Per-
feminist viewpoints, "written with passion, sonally, and as a white woman, I| was disturbed
eloquence and a minimum of jargon," -- in paper- by the facile, middle-class psychologisms of the
back originals, yet. white viewpoint... but then, the power to unset-
I've also noticed that practically nothing tle is one of the book's strong points.
is rolling off the presses before October. This Women Writers of Spanish America: A Bio-
isn't so great for early fall sales, but it does Bibliographical Guide, Diane Marting, ed.,
give me a chance to catch up with two presses $49.95x. Anyone studying or teaching Hispanic
that have late-summer releases on their spring women's literature and able to pay the price
188 lists. will find this book's hundreds of biographies
and lists of annotated titles invaluable. Omis-
GREENWOOD PRESS sions will be found and the annotations are
ies, oG fr fee en rw inoo gd p au nb li s eh xes t e p nr sim ivar ei l y l i sf tor oli fb r ar f- eminist p tuo rli et i c ca oll vy e r et do o o nb la bn od t, h b u Lt a t it nh e A mw ee ral it ch a ao nf d l i tt her e a - U.S.,
s nt eu ad ri le ys it ni dtl ee ss t r t uh cta it b lec o m coe v ew rsi .t h T hh ei g h pr ep sr s ic hes a s a n and a tl ro an ng s la w tii ot nh s i mnf ao kr em ta hti io sn a o n fi n s eo u rr ec fe es r ea nn cd e . English
agency plan that stores near colleges might be
able to use, but in general you should expect to UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO
sm toa cr kk tu hp e m t .hese short-discount books in order to Claud iJ aa n e J oA hus nti sn o: n W , o m $2en 7, . 5 P 0o l it ci lc .s a An d wth ie t t N yo ,v e l f, eminist
Volume 11 Number 3 September 1988
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsse = o? o ® 3 5 w c wW o o > v ct O t o? Z o? < w
account of male scholars' use and distortion of
THE CHANGING LIVES OF oA fu s t ti hn e' s v w ier wit si n og f, Aal uo sn tg in ,w i hth er s a e l ff , r e wsh h o mre a p tp hr ea i asa ul thor
AMERICAN WOMEN calls "cagey." In paperback, this will be the
by Steven D. McLaughlin, Barbara D. Melber, John O. G. Billy, book of Austin criticism to recommend to non-
Denise M. Zimmerle, Linda D. Winges, and Terry R. Johnson specialists. As an attractively packaged hard-
Foreword by Glen H. Elder, jr. cover, it's a great holiday gift for true femi-
Prefatory Note by D. Claeys Bahrenburg nist Austin fans.
Women Adrift, Joanne Meyerowitz, illus,
Based on a study commissioned by Cosmopolitan magazine in $29.95 cl, is as solid contribution to the her-
1984, this book is the first major synthesis of data that details story of working women and a readable book you
the demographic changes in the behavior of American might consider trying in hardcover. The author
women. “It will go far in helping readers to understand the reconstructs the lives of diverse wage-earning
basis for the continuing changes in gender relations that mark women in turn-of-the-century Chicago, focusing
the current scene."—|oan Huber on their struggles to build independent lives
approx. 290 pp., $24.95 cloth, $12.95 paper and relationships outside the patriarchal fam-
ily, and includes such innovations as women's
cooperative housing.
LIKE A FAMILY
The Making of a Southern Cotton Mill World A
by Jacquelyn Dowd Hall, James Leloudis, Robert Korstad,
Mary Murphy, Lu Ann Jones, and Christopher B. Daly
ni
C Oo rw gai nn in ze ar t io o nf ot fh e A mM ee rr il ce a nC u Hrt isi t oS ro ic ania sl History Award, Invisible F C ola lr oe wer ins, g A anrl te hn re o p K ola op gla isn t D La an ui re als,
“The genius of Like a Family lies in its effortless integration of Nader's now nearly 20 year old call for progres-
the history of the family—particularly women—into the his- sive scholars to study the powerful, Kaplan
tory of the cotton-mill world... The authors convincingly gives an insider's view of wealthy women's civic
demonstrate the indispensability of ‘gender-conscious’ his- volunteer work. She also steps outside the world
tory.'—lra Berlin, New York Times Book Review of charities and causes to explore the dilemmas
502 pp., $34.95 cloth, $12.95 paper of women simultaneously bent on social improve-
ment, held back by sexism, and engaged in pro-
tecting their class privilege.
FROM WORKING GIRL Sowing the Body, Page DuBois, illus, $29.95
TO WORKING MOTHER cl. Feminist classicists and women interested in
The Female Labor Force in the United States, 1820—1980 psychology and the significance of goddess
by Lynn Y. Weiner archetypes will be interested in this seemingly
“A fresh perspective on one of the major demographic trends dob emsc au nr de in b go lo yk , a ct ah do eu mg ih c. t Ph De uy B ow isi l l c l ef vin erd l y t h ce o m w br ii nt ein sg
in our history. [Weiner] has succinctly and successfully related an analysis of Ancient Greek ideas about women's
changing attitudes towards wage-earning women to women's bodies with a wide-ranging critique of the lim-
movement into the labor force.”—Alice Kessler-Harris, ited and ahistorical imagination of psycho-
Hofstra University analysis.
199 pp.. $8.95 paper Independent Women, Martha Vicinis, 22
illus, $13.95. This is a basic and widely-quoted
available at bookstores or from study of the herstory of single women and of the
THE UNIVERSITY OF Anglo-American feminist movement. Between 1850
NORTH CAROLINA PRESS and 1920 many British middle-class women suc-
Post Office Box 2288 ceeded in becoming economically self-sufficient.
Chape! Hill, North Carolina 27515-2288 V di oc wini ns sh to hw es bth aa rt r it eh rey s m oo fv e d s o r map eid l y t r t ao d ib tr ie oa nk ally male
professions, enlarged the scope of many female
8 3 g 8 Volume 11
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsm 71A
Di
ones, created women's communities and come to
constitute powerful reformist and radical social
movements. Autobiography of Mrs. Oliphant, $9.95 about the
prolific Victorian writer (Oxford and Pandora
have several of her novels), and Becoming an Ex:
The Process of Role-Exit, Helen Rose Fuchs
èl E cb ifau ig ch a, l l y$1 0 . a95 , w b oy m a en n e 'sx - n su tn u. d T ih eo su g th i tn lo et , sp me- ost of its
41 ph D oan tc oe s, , S e $x 1 5an .9d 5 .G en Td ae kr, e J iu td i th f r L oy mnn sH oe mrm ea on n, e who c fdh ei ma vp it o ne r ir scs t e - e b- s o , oo kn se t oxm r- eo p t rh cue or ss ts t o i mw t euit rth s.eou st -c -u st o wdy il, l w aid po pw es a, l to
k a onn rdo w h bs a o sv t i hr alt :wu aa yl tly s h i f sn o o u t n ih sdi n g i at a tb woo u o t b n e dd a d en u rc l fle , u p la e lir e bf no oar t om in ka g n , c -e - a rare The COn ue l t ad odi fti o n Da rl a p ua ppe ar db ia c k b yon ACh lfic a g Ho's i t eli bst e, itel (male
a pp pr oi ls we ah eic i n rpe . i n t H ho ge af r t m t aah nhn ii e mg hh a a tasl et y ta d i a te nr uen cm edt e ae or sr nk t a ba t Eli o uen rw i ofn pal ea rg i adr n, f al so ni erb d x e e ,r Ux a .- St g .i en ng d e rsc h ao nl d- a o g tsu f iep ct n e eh dw .co er oi rra) ,, sl hi bb z i upo e t r d d o e kf r n ts o ao w o lH n ec i dn a gw dr eo u rm oy g fe .n o d' Hs dI i t e ns s't ds su u d a i t n be h ds e, le i ed b f ou d e t s a e n fi f ds i o n c pt uio rsto a i c v o -ne study
stages. She draws interesting comparisons from
the Middle East and South and East Asia, and
concludes with the alternative visions of black,
gay male and feminist dancers. AD FEMINAM:
Reconstructing the Academy, Elizabeth Women & Literature
Minnich, Jean O'Barr & Rachel Rosenfeld eds,
$12.95. This handy collection of recent essays A series of feminist criticism
from the women's studies journal Signs covers edited by Sandra M. Gilbert
issues in education. Included are: the status of
women's education in the U.S.; the effects of New
sexual harassment on learning and teaching; the MARGARET ATWOOD
slow integration of feminist ideas; the ongoing Vision and Forms
exclusion. of the experience of women of color
and working-class women; the significance of Edited by Kathryn Van Spanckeren and
role models; and directions for women's studies Jan Garden Castro. With an Autobio-
curricula. graphical Foreword by Margaret Atwood.
Women and Politics: An International Per- A lively and enlightening critical anthol-
spective, 2nd Edition, Vicky Randall, $12.95. Ogy On Atwood's work. Illustrated.
Randall's introduction to women's political S2495
a Ec uti ron o p a en ,d tf hem ei n i Tst h im rdov e m Wen ot rs l din aN no drt h s tA am te er i c sa o, cialist Write for a list of titles
countries isn't too academic to be enjoyed by in the series.
non-students. She is well aware of the diversity SOUTHERN ILLINOIS
and complexity of "women's experience," taking
c lia br ee r at l,o sd oe cf iain lie s t ,h e cr u l tt ue rr am l,s aa nn dd og ti hv ei rn g s or ra td si c a ol f, b U ND Ce arpIbtV. o n F dEB al7Re8 ,, S IP LIO T. 6 2 BY9o 0x 2 - 3 3 6P6 99 77RESS
feminists vocabulary and background we need in
Volume 11 Number 3 September 1988
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
Feminist Journeys, Reflections,
& Visions
When Society Becomes an Addict
Anne Wilson Schaef
Schaef defines the prevalent system
within our culture as an addictive
Kiss Sleeping Beauty Good-Bye system and articulates its indelible
BMreakaidngo tnhen Sape ll Kof o Flembieninne s Mcyhthlsa agnd Miodels e pf hf ye sc it cs a l ,o n a n dou r s p ic ro il tl uec at l i v he e ae ltm ho . t i “o An nal -, `
The book that broke the spell of other breakthrough book by Anne
feminine myths and models—and Wilson Schaef. This time, with star-
sold over 100,000 Ccopies—is now in tling honesty, she takes us to the
a revised edition. More than ten heart and soul of our addictions as a
years after publication, Kiss Sleep- society and as individuals.”
ing Beauty Good-Bye continues to —Dr. Ken Druck, author of
engage and enlighten, addressing The Secrets Men Keep. Paperback $8.95, ISBN 0-06-254854-9
the question, What does a woman
want? Laughter of Aphrodite
Paperback $8.95, ISBN 0-06-064769-8 Reflections on a Journey to the Goddess
Carol P. Christ
This spiritual and intellectual jour-
The Skeptical Feminist n roe oy t s ,o p den ess c r w ibi et sh hC eh rr i ss tt r's u gr ge ll ei g i wou its h
D Bi as rc bo av re ar i n Gg . Wth ae l k eV rirgin, Mother, and Crone t th re a G do id t i oof n sth , e fJ oew llis oh w a sn d hC ehr ri st i ran eclaiming of
This compelling autobiography si ER the Goddess, and concludes with
follows Walker's journey away ASTOA her experience in Goddess ritual, in-
pfrasotm t hhee r n eCcherssisittyia n f ourp b ar i nbgeliinegf, iana EeTaEENI mclu od ni yn .g “ Ph re or v oo cw atn i v ei n i et si sa at yio sn [ tc he ar te ]-
God or Goddess, to an apprecia- contribute a rich vision to feminist
tion of the Goddess as a way to studies in religion and theology.”
structure our social system. She —Elisabeth Schussler Fiorenza
describes the suppression of the Paperback $8.95, ISBN 0-06-250147-X
Goddess religions and reveals
how women’s past and present Medicine Woman’s Journey through the Year
morality is more nourishing, less 1989 Engagement Calendar
aggressive than men’s moral Lynn V. Andrews MEDICINE WOMANS
This week-at-a-glance spiral-
bound engagement calendar,
based on Andrews’s bestseller
Medicine Woman, includes a |
preface by the author, twelve
pieces of original four-color art,
plus additional designs drawn
from North American Indian
cultures. Each month illustrates
one stage of the spiritual jour-
S£ ney recorded in the book, and
each week highlights selected quotations that accent the
themes of her journey. Calendar $9.95, ISBN 0-06-250035-X
80 Volume 11 Number 3
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
TIA s Al.
Compiled by Sandi Torkildson and Anita ivicClellan GROVE PRESS
(Combine with Weidenfeld & Nicolson for
CROWN discount; after Sept. 1st, new address: 841
House of Heroes and Other Stories by 2eEN/ roadway, iNY, NY 10003-4793.)
N pe el ls lo en ,- A l wyr hen o- . - lic it vio en s A iw na r d m-w inin nne er a p W olv ii sar . y T L oa n C i h a M- orrison ings T oh fe W Mis ee n sW to ru un ad t: i oM ny t h bs, y R e Pal eit nie es l, o pan ed SM he uan t- tle and
a "n ad sf uel blo sw t a r nc tl\ i/ aA l l g tr aen le nju td .g "e s T t her em e sd t oL ra i eC sh a p ie nll e this P Met ae rr g R ae rd eg tr o v De r ( aR be bvi ls eed ). e id rit si ton ; p I unt br lo id su hc eti don ib ny 1978 and
first collection celebrate small-town: life and the only book to focus on the inner experience
the silent strength of people ayainst great and significance of the cycle, Wound has influ-
odds. $ T16 h. e9 5 b rc ol, n tA esu : g . C h0 a- r5 l1 o7 t- t5 e6 7 B8 r2 o2 n. te and Her rami- e stn rc ue ad t i oa n .p r To hf eo u n nd ew s h Aif ft t e rin w o rat dt i t du od ce us m ea nb to su t r em cee nn t-
Iy by Rebecca rraser, daughter of biographer discoveries and offers practical advice on re-
Antonia rraser. A novelistic treatment examining laxing into harmony with the menstrual cycle.
t Ch he a ö rr lo on tt tes e , f r mom i l ya , m o ad ne drn Ape nrs np eec t i av se , hre ev re oal ii nng es strug- S ih su tt st .l e $ a 9n .d 9 5 R ,e d Sgr eo pv te . a r 0e - 8b 0ot 2h 1 - p 3o 1e 2ts 8 -a Xnd . novel-
gling to reconcile grim circumstances with their The Notebook by Hungarian-born Agosta Kris-
c hr oe la ict i v ve r oa tm heb ri ,t i o sn rs a n ww eh li ll .e $ c 2a 5r .0in 0g c lf ,o r 2 4 t h be &ir w a l pc ho o- - t do af n ( )t ,r a n as l a fte id r s f tr o m n o vth ee l , F r ie sn c h a b ny i gA hla tn m S ah rer ei - fable of
tos, Sept. U-51/-56495066. Central Europe during world War II told through
Martin Leman's Comic and Curious Cats with the unblinking eyes of young twin sons, aban-
paintings by Martin Leman and text by vritish doned by their mother. Inverting the morality
feminist novelist Angela Carter (idights at the preached by adults but never practiced, the boys
Circus). Tne cloth edition has sold 46,000 co- become avenging angels in a remote village where
pies since 1ly/3. 9.95, 16 color, 19 b&w illus., the strong prey on the weak and a "human herd"
32 pp., Sept. 0-517-570386. is rounded up for deportation and extermination.
The children's notebook documents all they see
and hear, yielding a catalog of modern horrors
ıl stripped of every rationalization, redeemed only
by the art of the storyteller. $15.95 cl, Oct.
0-8021-1024-X.
This Is Your Life by Meg Wolitzer (Hidden Dancing at the dge of the World: Thoughts
rictures, Sleep Walking) is a comic novel that on Words, Women, Places by Ursula Le Guin, win-
explores the effects of fame on children of the ner of the Hugo, Nebula, Gandalf, Newbery,
famous. How 300-Ib. TV comedienne Dotty cngles' Kafka, and ational book Awards, futuristic
two daughters grow up under their mother's gar- fantasy author of The Left Hand of Darkness, The
gantuan TV image and are affected when Dotty's Dispossessed, he Lathe of Heaven, Always Coming
popularity wanes reveals how vastly different Home, and the nonfiction The Language of the
these three women are. $17.95 cl, Oct. 0-517- Wight. Le Guin's first nonfiction in 10 years,
569299. Dancing charts the changes in the mind of this
Volume 11 Number 3 81 September 1988
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
wonderful saboteuse in the "armed camps of lit- rried Green Tomatoes at the Whistle Stop
erary criticism." Le Guin proposes a feminist Cafe by rannie riagg (Coming Attractions) is a
"Carrier vag Theory of ‘iction" to replace the comic novel set in the Depression South about a
usual linear narrative, and she poses as "an woman in the 1980's telling a woman friend her
aging, angry woman laying mightily about me with life story featuring two women (lovers) in the
my handoag, tigiting hoodlums off" --the hood- 1930's who ran a cafe in Alabama that offered
lums of anti-abortion rights, of macho writings, food, love, laughter, and murder. Eudora Welty
cf environmental destruction, of no Amtrak fund- said, "She doesn't miss a trick!" $5.95, Nov. 0-
ing. y17.95 cl, Jan. 0-8021-1105-X. 07-021257.
India Song by Marguerite Duras (translated The Motherhood Report: How Women Feel About
from the rrench by barbara vrey). A play and Being Mothers by Louis Genevie, Assistant Pro-
later screenplay by the scriptwriter of Hiroshi- fessor of Psychiatry, and Eve Margolies, a psy-
ma, Mon Amour and author of The Lover and other chotherapist, is the result of a survey of mo- `
novels, India Song is a tale of doomed love to thers across the land who "poured out their
ct ah le le ds t r ba yin s M oo lf ly I n Hd ai sa k's e ll1 ,9 3 "7 a d ry arin efg i e dco l won oi ra kli s m of oh ne a r mts o t a hn ed r h od oi dsc ."lo s Ded r. t Th .e ir B e rm ryos t B rp ar zi ev la tt oe n t (h Ino fu ag nh tt ss
lyricism, despair, and passion." $6.95, Jan. 0- and Mothers) calls this an "Excellent book
8021-3135-2. 023064-1.
The New Celibacy by Gabrielle Brown, a
former therapist, has been revised and updated
to reflect current thinking and trends on celi-
bacy by choice (as opposed to by default) as a
path to physical and emotional health. $7.95,
reb. 0-07-008439-4.
MCGRAW-HILL BOOK COMPANY The Virago Book of Ghost Stories edited by
Safe Encounters: How Women Can Say Yes to Richard Dalby, a British literary researcher.
Pleasure and No to Unsafe Sex by Beverly Whip- The first collection of ghost stories by 30
ple, RN, and Gina Ogden, a psychotherapist. 20th-century women writers, including Angela
Whipple is co-author of the best-selling The G Cater, Sara Maitland, Elizabeth Taylor, May
Spot. This is an AIDS-avoidance book for hetero- Wheldon, Rose Macauley. $8.95, Jan. 0-07-
sexual women that begins with "revamping" atti- 015132-6.
tudes to convey that "the right relationship ís
a safe relationship." Look at the book to see
whether the information is responsible and prac-
tical. $16.95 cI, Oct. 0-07-069519-9. Ail;
Imelda: Steel Butterfly of the Philippines
by Pulitzer Prize-winning Katherine Ellison, who RAINDOM HOUS-VIRAGO
s tt t or o a rc wyed h oo st f eh e t ch hM e a ra r mmc so o ,s s t tf hfo ear mt u ao un u te s h o a g rr ao nu cg ln asd it m e rt s' ,h s e M m w ao ro l clr , o l sd t. h w aL oni nf ke s p gi rc as p, h sA . dr a r Ts i ht ane er sn e, e H sB ti olg u rh e ie e,r s , $ o1 r f3u .9 r 15t 5 h e p wr b: , o m W A euo nm g . e a n t6 h 0 l i e n tp eh st o h t fe o r - oO mlym-
t bh &e w p r e psi hde on tc oy s ,a n d O cs tta .y e 0d - 0in 7 - p 0o 1w 9e 3r. 3 5$ -1 57. .9 5 : cl, tm ho er e d e t th eran m i n8 a0 t i oy ne a r as n do f w oO rl ky m op fi c w c oo mm ep ne t i at ti hon le t es sh .ow
We HAVE Come a Long Way: The Story of glue addresses some of the controversial issues
Women's Tennis by Billie Jean King and tennis- concerning women in sports including equality
writer Cynthia Morris Starr covers the evolution between the sexes, and drug use to improve per-
of women's tennis from the late 19th century and formance and fertility. This history of women in
early tennis personalities to today's megabusi- the Olympics will be published before the 1988
ness launched by the Virginia Slims tour 17 Seoul Olympics.
years ago and to modern luminaries such as King, Sexuality: A Reader, edited by Feminist
Evert Lloyd, Austin, iNavratilova, and Graf. Review, 0860-68802X, $11.95 pb, Oct. This col-
Women's sports herstory mixed with insider's lection of 17 articles from reminist Review
insights to the current scene. $24.95 cl, 16 pp. rings toyether some of the major contributions
of full color & b&w photos, Nov. 0-07-034625-9. on tie sexuality debate among feminists. The
September 1988 Volume 11
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
ip!
FAHI
rT Jı Sl . :
articles include discussions of issues relating tva Luna, Isabel Allende, 0394-57273-4,
to sexual politics, the social construction of $15.95 cI, Oct. Knopf >This is the story of cva
temininıty and masculinity, lesbianism, pornog- Luna -- worn poor, orphaned early, growing up
raphy, sexual violence and adolescence. amid ancient furniture and books in Latin, saved
trom melancholy by her "memories" of a jungle
she has never seen, becoming the bullied servant
RANDOM HOUS of rich masters, befriended by a Lebanese emigre
0394- 5W 6o 9m 7e 6n -, 8 ,C u l $tu 1r 7e . 9 & 5 P col Ii ,t ic s r, e vA .n g e Dla a v D ia sv i s s, peaks out a cn ed l e i bn rst ar tu ec dte d c i an b at rh ee t w a ay rs t io sf t . t h Ae l w leo nrl dd e b y c r a eates a
a itg yai ,n t hon e ft ih ge h t i s s fu te os r o ff a i rr a c ai na dl a an dd eq us ae tx eu a el d ueq cau ta il o- n c ao nm d p hle ix st oS ro yu .th American nation with drama, comedy
and health care, the movements against apartheid
and tor world peace, and the need for a true
" sp te ro opl ne' ys c u idlt eu are s. ," A D a b vo io sk ' o lf a t est sr to n y b o w oo kr d s w a ir lm l n d provoke, Zil
challenge and inspire.
The volitics of the The Essential Gesture: Writing, Politics,
Women's Movement and the Crusade for the ERA, and Places, ladine Gordimer, 0394-573978, $19.95
clisabeth Griffith, 0394-552539, $18.95 cl, reb. cl. Knopf. These twenty-three essays about writ-
With both the insight of an historian and the ing and writers, about politics and censorship,
firsthand knowledge of an activist, Griffith's about political figures and places in South
history of the ERA is a behind-the-scenès por- Africa provide us with an intimate, intricate
trait of six decades of the women's movement and picture of life in South Africa over the past 40
the forces that have shaped it. years. She writes about her beginnings as a
An Uncommon Hero: One Mother Who Fought to novelist, her sense of vocation, the cnanges and
Protect Her Child from Sexual Abuse, Stephen oliyations of being an artist in South Africa
Curwood, 0446-514489, $18.95 cl, Feb. Warner. and the consequences of being South African in
This is both the story of Virginia LaLonde and tne larger world.
her six year old daughter, a victim of prolonged Grey is the Color of Hope, Irina Ratushin-
sexual abuse by her father, and the story of the saya, 0394-571401, $15.95 cI, Oct. Knopf. Ar-
Sanctuary Miovement, an underground network of rested at the age of 28 for writing "anti-Soviet
heroic individuals who protect abused children. poetry," Irina Ratusninskaya spent four years in
The book exposes a judicial system that too the women's quarters of the harsh Barashevo
often fails to protect the most important person "strict regime" camp. «ecnduriny confinement in
in any custody trial -- the child. sub-zero isolation cells with never enough to
Shoulder to Shoulder, Midge MacKenzie, eat and subject to physical abuse, Ratushinskaya
U679-72i31-2, $15.95 pv, Sept. Vintage. (Re- tells the story of herself and other women pri-
vrint) This documentary of the militant suf- soners.
fragettes in cngland presents firsthand testi- Champion of the Great American ramily,
mony of tneir campaign to revolutionize the Patricia Schroeder, 0394-565746, $17.95 cl. reb.
situations of all women. It includes memoirs, In this book, Congresswoman Schroeder combines
speeches, articles, puvlished newspaper reports the moving history of her own family with the
and over 20U photos. PoS will air a series this struggles of today's American family. She weaves
fall aoout the Suffragettes. her story with the stories of women and men she
Volume 11 Number 3 September 1988
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
has talked with across the country to bring into Jane Somers. There are also selections of her
focus the issues crucial to survival for today's nonfiction including a piece from Going Home,
families: child care, health care, parental her 1957 account of her.return to Africa. This
leave, adJoption, and family planning. She con- volume is a thorough representative sampling of
cludes with a legislative program she believes Lessing's work.
can save and sustain the American family. oreathing Lessons, Anne Tyler, 394-572543,
$16.95 cI, Sept. Knopf. This new novel by Tyler
is the story of the marriaye of Maggie, harum-
scarum, impetuous and soft, and lra, competent,
Zili patient, infallible. During the course of a
journey to the funeral of Wiaggie's best friend's
Sallie P bas insi go hn a m an , d 0 3P 9r 4e -j 5u 5d 8ic 5e 1: - 0 A , $F 2a 2m .9i 5l y c lM , e Jm anoi .r, h au bs ob uan td , a T y mler a rs rho iaw gs e :u s t a hll e t h ee xre p ei cs t ato t i ok nno sw , the disap-
o c ot tBK l ih hf vei sn gn ee e e o r a g h p c n f d oe yf ta ra e f. - hmm v - ea S a pi s l na t otyml sc ha wl i.i te leie es i v l n rS tl e i oh eg rB o r l en ai d s n ns c e' t ,g dl o s e o th n al o i ta fv t kem si se hl s g o esl e, s nu r vb r ah da iet n e cthhe add ei ui ie o .r u n g n e c d hhs ast s te ta er en t o rd hgt f s o l oe e w f d t foa g n h o r o r e h l t d ti h ts o Be phi t nr rio e nd er r g s ey f e i hv dao xae c if eo m naa rlf d g-t ehe wp n Ai d5no o n o5 e i t rn n s9ha ka pt 3i .,m n a0f g ie Aa a4A rn m n, s-t n b ni -s ,l e , any 5 a , c, u a 1 t l h t h wu7 iaa ce nn s h.L i 9g td a o . nw e 5 sM s 5a t h. y h i. an aN se n cc . W blO dh w , ei a 5. el e, yd s n= ttr 0 re t Sn mc T oh a t e ua a r x.t rc b>a aa r sn h l ie e e v d T w sec r hr G h aye oi naa lt st dsah e l si i n ss is sts sg c t e h o o n wt e-r c s-m h ak n tes , da to :n e o dd 0 es3 st 9 o 4 r h- y er:of
Ghosts, zva iges, 0394-571592, $15.95 C|, by more than one man, įis fiercely independent
Sept. rantheon. iges captures the experience of and wants her own shop so she will never be
aging in this new novel as she follows her owned by a man again.
h We er o i wn ae t ct hh r hou erg h c of mou e r t os e a ts eo rn ms s o f w ita h s i hn eg rl e f y ore mar e. r cl, Jan .I n t Si um saa nc y , C h S au cs ea n h aC s h a ac ne , e y0 e3 9 4 f- o5 r7 0 d30 et8 a, i l $ 1 a4 n. d95
ol t io sh r v da e t h ir n a , al s f r h yh e e p r o oi es c tg c r ur s y rlo o rw w ean nl ny cd e c sh b hi el oacd l fo fr m e dn i p an, r ig l o ya . s n e ,d I l n i f rt eith gh e e ii s ns tg otl no uo s r lt v uni e my sl i ntts hhe ol e uaf t s sh at ibe a xa or tr ur il etoe s ws s C i wn e a g c hb i oli i l m ai ,t h oy em a a n det sno t o s f,r t oe i ri mv n e i a ts l hta i ec t w h So le oi m b u m e ta r hno a w' ls s t e sol ti fp f r e wi t.v h i a tT et h he i m s ha in edn rd -ovel
events. doctor husband to "save the poor", begins as an
Nelly's Version, tva riges, 0679-720359, adventure of love and companionship but turns to
$8.95 pb, Sept. Pantheon. The heroine in this desperate loneliness and guilt.
novel cannot remember her identity. She regis- A book of Bees, Sue Hubbell, 0394-55894-4,
nt ae a lr m ms e o i n sw t i ta h u h nao t b e c el a as ei rn a f ba u ll els t or tfan e g nme s o int oeo nyw . n , F i n igu en sd t e hcr r i e sa a t ef tsa hl s a re n iller of $ o m1 f7 y . r9 A i5 a d C c o l t, u an sS t ke r sp y t a. nY dT e h a re p, l e s l ae e sc a uo d rn s e d s t hb oe fo o k r te e a nb d dy e ir n gt h t he b r e oa euu sg .t hh | o I nr the
sid ele fn -t init d y Tu. c h eI ds e h r Vee pr ar g eh s ae s bir oo oni nn , e d o ,rs u f u If sne asr p bi en eag lk l a ebf lr eo c m bcr e ia rmm hen s a?e rs dia t, , et cyh eei ls s e b p t re or a s tto h en e sa l l a ta rn hgd e e l yp o s e u pt n lic s e e n ew n do o r l rk if s, e H a ou r fb ob u e n nl dl a to up use r n a es n ,d o u gr reat and
0701208236, $10.95 pb, Oct. Hogarth. A novel by
Loberhardt who scandalized the rrench colonists
at the turn of the century in North Africa by
disguising herself as an Arab boy and shame- Zili
lessly indulging her passion for adventure. The
vagabonü of this novel is Dmitri Orschanoui, a
Sjto. irente rs bturhg em e dircaol rstuediengt n w h o L seetsg oiuot n to. SIMON TA hN e D t qS uC aH liU tyS T E TR rap: Why Women are in Trouble
The Doris Lessing Reader 0394-573072, at Home and at Work by Mary Ann Mason, a West
$24.95 cl. reb. Knopf. These selections made by Coast attorney specializing in family law. Mason
the author herself range from her first novel, argues that the rcqual Rights efforts by femi-
The Grass Is Singing, and her "Children of Vio- nists, which "stripped away" sexist legal pro-
lence" and "Canopus" novels to The Diaries of tections of working-class and married women,
September 1988
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
LË. sinl.. YTB NI
Jenefited only upper-midjle-class superachiev- cialties, and personnel to contact. $8.95 Sept.
ers. The feminization of poverty -- resulting 0-671-64238-3.
from higi divorce rates, no-fault settlements, Living on Purpose by Pat A. Paulson, Sharon
n g f w "oao wop c m u oo s e-r i mn- n 'g s l e do n w e bom 'en s na a n el wi fd rm ios t i mo s g n .a e h y r M t in ' ss aep s "wa o ey n c m 'of asne ge mn o b emt oi ns n oi, dc ki s ata r n o i ud p g st o h h llt iti n oh t s i ee uc s aa l nl g d wd e s n h t d aw br te a eo r t r . e t k g hw iy e $na g 1ye 8.45 cl, wC l P 1i. o 2 rfr 0aB ek t 0r .b o h o w o eI ckn n r o , , pt a o t in eth d shf e i en J d io v ni n b e gA o i n in o tyn k so ' u o sW r f fs o e isl l rf ef S s l c f ti as o -n t pda mt u cN b oe P ne lnw iet tse c hhr kA i .en g dg e $a n 1yg e 0o du dui . d 9ir te 5H i ,oa u nn gd O h cs to .l 0d -
Sept. U0-671-61715-X. 671-67223-1.
Picture Bride by Japanese-American novelist
Yoshiko Uchida tells of a Japanese immigrant
Zil! w Bo m easnt'asb liesahr l ya- laifned imn i dA-m20etrhi-ccae, n tfurroym ehfefro r tasr r itvoal in
1917 as a photo-chosen bride through internment
Perfect Women Driven to Perform by best- in the detention camps of World War Il! and
selling pop psychologist Colette Dowling (The after. Her family and community life sustains
Cinderella Complex) probes women workaholics, her. $6.95, 0-671-66874-9.
obsessive dieters, exercise addicts, substance Women on War edited by Daniella Gioseffi
abusers, community volunteers who can't say no, presents voices of notable women raised for
and compulsive shoppers to reveal their under- peace all over the wortd since the 19th century.
lying desire for approval from others. Striving rom Rosa Luxemburg, Emma Goldman, and Simone
for perfection and superachievement is an effort Weil to tleanor Roosevelt, Hannan Arendt, and
to mask obscure feelings of worthlessness: in Golda Meir to Winnie Mandela, Petra Kelly, Alice
Dowling's words, the "kernel of self-contempt Walker, Isabel Allende, anú many more. The re-
lying at the heart of even the most brilliantly sult is "a collective message of spiritual
accomplished female lives." No comment from strength and moral clarity, and a vision of
George Sand. ¥18.45 cl, Sept. 1-671-54747-X. hope.! $9.95, line art by Kathe Kollwitz, 0-671-
These Things Happen, new stories by Marian 66781-5 ($19.45 cl, -67157-0). 5
Thurm (Floating, Walking Distance). rublished in Adam. & Eve and the City by Francine du
Tne New Yorker, Ms., Mademoiselle, Thurm is Plessix Gray is a nonfiction collection by the
präisod vy short storyist Lee Smith for her novelist (Lovers and Tyrants), essayist, and
precision, her wit, her understanding, and her winner of the 1984 National Magazine Award.
grace. 16.45 cl, Oct. 0-671-64924-8. : Pieces on Klaus Barbie, profiles of contemporary
The New rreelancer's Handbook: Successful American religious leaders and of women achiev-
Self-úmployment (formerly issued as r-reelance ers reflect Gray's recent observations of the
corever) by verteran freelancer Marietta Whit- culture and the times. $10.95, 0-671-66830-7.
tlesey covers finding work, legal and financial Ecstasy Is a New Frequency: Teachings of
issues, isolation, self-management, and profes- the Light Institute by Chris Griscom (Time is an
sional associations. $9.95 Sept. 0-671-64582-X. Illusion) expands on techniques praised by Shir-
Hunting the Headhunters: A Woman's Guide by ley MacLaine. Details how to discover and heal
business writer Diane Cole shows women how to traumas of past lives, advice on reaching the
use executive recruiters and their corporate child within and developing the power of choice.
contacts as resources for a better job. Regional The Light Institute is in Galisteo, New Mexico.
lists of headhunting firms, their industry spe- $4.95, Nov. 0-671-66651.
Volume 11 Number 3 85 September 1988
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
BRITISH AMERICAN PUBLISHING (S&S) 97.95 pb, Sept. This new edition (with a new in-
Joan Makes History by Kate Grenville, Aus- troduction by Susan rorward), presents 25 case
tralian author of Lilian's Story, winner of the histories dealing with incest relationships
Australian? Vogel Award. Billed by S&S as a between father and daughter, mother and son,
"feminist novel...in which feminist politics are siblings, mother and daughter, grandfather and
subsumed by art" and praised by Ëlizabeth Jolley granddaughter, and father and son. The book
as "very lively and very readable," Joan is provides comfort to survivors of incest and
about a promising and ambitious college student guidelines for those who live and work with
who finds herself pregnant, bringing on "a cri- tnem. An incest survivor herself, rorward's book
sis of the soul." $17.45 cl, Oct. 0-945167-09-1. was one of the first to vreak the silence about
incest.
Children of the Holocaust, Helen cpstein,
014-011284-7, $7.95, Oct. Out-of-print for a
8 pn au ssm ionb ate er a no df i lly umea ir nas t, i n gt h wis or ke d oi nt i co hn il d rb enr i n ofgs back a
survivors of the Holocaust. Helen &pstein inter-
views hundreds of people like herself who had to
The Heart of the Country, ray Weldon, 0670- cope with the horrible events before their
818755, $17.95 cl, Nov. The story of Natalie births.
Harris whose husband left her without enough gas A House of Trees: Memoirs of an Australian
to drive her children to school nor enough money Girlhood, Joan Colebrook, 014-0114823, $7.95,
to pay their tuition. This unsentimental educa- Dec. Joan Colebrook recalls her 1920's girlhood
tion of Natalie propes the myth of the suburban on the virgin tablelands of northern Australia,
countryside as a place of peace and kindhearted where the rain forest surrounded her family's
neighbors. Weldon is a stitch. house. Colebrook brings to life the beauty and
Selected Stories of Sylvia Townsend Warner, contradictions of the land of her childhood in
0670-824874, $19.95 cI. Dec. This collection this fascinating personal history.
brings together 47 stories that display Warner's
talent as a bvrilliant stylist and perceptive The Newspaper of Claremont Street, Eliza-
onserver of the human condition. rrom auto- beth Jolley, 014-008582-3, $6.95, Dec. The
biographical stories of nannies, public schools "newspaper" of Claremont Street is a cleaning
and country holidays to humorous tales of ec- woman who goes from house to house on middle
centrics and magical kingdoms to serious love class Claremont Street, bringing bits of news
stories, this collection will delight and reward and gossip along with her scrub brush. She lonys
all Warner fans. to escape and saves her money to do so, but her
Heart Mountain, Gretel thrlich, 0670- simple dream vecomes complicated when she be-
821608, $18.95 cI, Oct. Set in the Northern friends a new widow.
Wyoming mountains, this is the story of Japanese Rich in Love, Josephine Humphreys, 014-
Americans forced into concentration camps during uU102833, $7.95, Sept. Seventeen-year-old South
WW II, and of the ranchers, sheepmen, waitresses Carolinian Lucille Odom tells of the upheaval in
and cowboys in the small town of Luster (pop. ner family and liie when ner mother decides to
200) near the camps. This is a powerful depic- "up and leave" one day. Lucille drops out of
tion of racial intolerance and the hidden ag- school to look after her father who cannot be-
onies of solitude. : lieve. that nis wife sof 27 years has left him
voluntarily. Lucille Odom emerges as a warm and
wise young woman rich in love.
PENGU TIN
The Women of brewster Place, Gloria Naylor,
0-451-822021, $3.95, Nov. This mass market edi-
tion of Naylor's novel is a tie-in with the AvC- ıl:
TV movie starring Oprah Winfrey that will be
aired in INov.
Betrayal of Innocence, WzIDENrELD & NICOLSON
Susan rorward and Craig Buck, 0-14-011002X, (Combine with Grove for discount; after
September 1988 Volume 11 Number 3
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
September 1st, new address is 841 broadway, INY, MASS MARKETS
INY 10003-4793.)
Kissing Cousins by Hortense Calisher, the llI
novelist, essayist, and memoirist (ralse Entry,
Age, Herself), js a memoir with reflections on
Calisher's southern Jewish childhood and her
Kissing cuusin against whom Calisher tests her Compiled by Karen Axness
Plo 1v 4e .9 5o f c Ip , e o 1p -5le 5 5 5an 4-d 1 9 l 4a -n 5g .uage and her loyalties. AUGUST
lllumination Night, Alice Hoffman, Fawcett,
$3.95, Fic.
Women Who Kill, Ann Jones, Fawcett, $4.95, NF.
/ ıl; Lying L (o rw ei, s s uD ei )ane Johnson, Fawcett, $3.95, Fic
Pageant, Kathryn Lasky, Dell $3.25, YA/Jewish
Sanctuary: A Story of American Conscience Women.
and the Law in Coiłlision by Ann Crittenden, Object of My Affection, Stephen McCauley, Pocket
Director of Washington's Fund for Investigative (W.S.P.), $6.95, Gay Men's Fic.
Journalism, recounts the history of the Sanctu- Women of the Air, Judy Lomax, Ivy, $3.95, NF.
ary Movement harboring Central American politi- Crystal Woman, Lynn V. Andrews, Warner, trade,
cal refugees from its beginnings in 1980 to the $10.95, Spirit.
federal-court case of 1986. Based on interviews Conquest, Lynn Abbey, Avon, $6.95, SF.
and documents, Sanctuary portrays the indi-
viduals whose consciences took on the government SEPTEMBER
and the judiciary in the tradition of the Under- The Age of Grief, Jane Smiley, Ivy, $3.95, Fic.
ground Railroad and modern antiwar and pro-Civil Miami, Joan Didion, Pocket, $7.95, NF.
rights activists. $19.95 cl, b&w photos, Sept. It's AIl in the Playing, Shirley Maclaine, Ban-
1-55584-039-6. tam, $4.95, Bio/Spirit.
The riano Teacher by Elfriede Jelinek Jackie Cochran, Maryann Bucknum Brinley, Bantam,
(translated from the German by Joachim Neugrós- $4.95, Bio.
chel) is a first novel by the 1986 winner of the
Heinrich Boll Prize for 1986. The plot centers OCTOBER
on piano teacher Erika, in her mid thirties, Her Mother's Daughter, Marilyn French, Ballan-
devoted to music and to her domineering mother, tine, $4.95, Fic.
and the young man who unleashes Erika's repres- Tending to Virginia, Jill McCorkle, Fawcett,
sed dreams, dark passions that mirror modern-day $4.95, Fic.
Vienna's own fabricated obsolescence and dormant
violence. $18.95 cl, Oct. 1-55584-052-3. YA.
Bullwhip Days: The Slaves Remember edited Felicity, Coral Lansbury, Ivy, $3.95, Fic.
and with an introduction by James Mellon. A Mask for the General, Lisa Goldstein, Bantam,
Twenty-nine ex-slaves' oral histories collected $3.95,4.SF.
by FDR's Federal Writers' Project, women and Minding the Body, Mending the Mind, Joan Bor-
men, blacks and whites, sent in the 1930's to ysenko, Bantam, $8.95, Health/Self Help.
interview some of the few thousand surviving ex- A Southern Family, Gail Godwin, Avon, $4.95,
slaves who had been freed at the end of the Filic.
Civil War. Narratives include excerpts from Beryl Markham, Dell,
interviews relating to other aspects of slave $7.50, Fic.
life collected by -FWP interviewers. $25.00 Cci,
39 b&w photos, Nov. 1-55584-210-0. crosses the color line to become a white nurse,
Mischief Makers by iettie Jones, Detroit and of her three daughters by a Chippewas In-
author of rish Tales, is a visionary novel of dian, young women whose looks defy racial labels
` color and class in 20th-century America, a gen- but whose lives take on the double-edged sword
erational story of Raphael de Baptiste, who of assimilation. $15.95 cl, Jan. 1-55584-164-3.
Number 3 September 1988
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
INDEX OF ADVERTISERS
Alyson Publications C-4 CLASSIFIED ADS
ABmaenricnane dSt u dBieso oPkresss 5148
China Books 71 & LITERARY PERSONALS
Crossing Press 70
Crossroad/Continuum 75
CGryrstaaly Mwisto lGfla ss PCarrveisngs 3 29 " mM ay c a ar nd ds r e of fl e c ot rmy feelings f o Er tt hh .e n Wa it lu dr ea rl
g ic beauty u a r " ness
HHaanrdpweerav i n&g / CRaloabwr e se1 0 32 Wsc he on lee sas l e a pn rd ic e f $l 0o .5w 0 e er as ch. . Retail pr Pi lc ee as e $ w1 r.0 it0 e fe oa rch.
HIamIrp nepra lc& at R n oPw u d-b- l Sias nh CeFrrans-c i 2sc6o8 80 f Pr re ee s s ,c a 1t 7al 5o 5g 1. : E Pl al ie nn t e S ra m Lom os p B Nu .r Et .,ner, H P ua bi bn at re dr , L Oo Rop
Labrys/Meese 22 97032.
Liberty Books 57
Library B Books 50 Photo Postcards! Interesting and eye-catching
LL Nli ezz waie ei lay B ndr o Pw un Pb l riJ ceae tw sioe snlr sy 4C 2 -0 3 bim lacag ke s & t o w hc io tm e, p l te hm ee sen t c at rh de s b vo ao rk ys fi rn o my o u lyr r is ct ao l r e a. n dIn
humorous to feminist. "Every picture tells a
NePw Yaorpk Uinieverrsity P reMss ache 48 story." The cards measure 4 1/2 x 6 1/2 inches.
Send a self-addressed stamped envelope for a
PePrgamioln g Prerssim Press 12 free brochure and wholesale terms. Shoshana
SR ide ea wl a lC ko m Ree vt o luP tr ie onss 5 7 23 R ino gt ,h a Niz Yer 1 P 1h 36o 7t .ography. 147-44 69th Road Flush-
Southern Illinois University Press 79
University of California Press 19
U UVn niv we ors ili nt cy ao Hf n y N moor at h n /C PPar aro nlin eda os P rsr ae ss 2 7 388 4 r fa or ue n d a . n d R . Ro .u t #-o 1f ,- p Br oin xt 2b 6o 2o , k s L. eo, IN F 46r 7e 6e 5. until book
West End Press 44
Wild Violet Publishing 60
NEW ZEALAND BOOKSHOPS, Cont.
THAT-A-WAY, Cant. transformed into a neat-feeling space and the
read this. (As we go to press they're at cus- shop has become a place for women to find out
toms, waiting for the one thin piece of paper what's happeningy, to meet, catch up. Wayes are
that will get them off custom's dock and into still a futuristic “iea for any of us, but
Inland's warehouse.) getting closer. We're developing our postal
Granite ress titles (Ixok Amar. Go, Lean- orders and we do special displays for women and
ing .orward, and A Lony Sound) are now available women's groups on the Last Coast."
from Inland only. If you've been ordering di-
rect, please order from Inland. Addresses
Broadsheet, 228 Dominion Road, Mt tden dox 56-
COMMENTARY, Cont. 147, Auckland.
bookstores. It's clearly time for another women- Dimensions Women's Bookshop, NZI Arcade, Garden
in-print movement, time to remember our common Place, Hamilton.
goals and our interdependence in achieving them. Kate Sheppard Women's Bookshop, 145 Manchester
St, “Christchurch.
Until then, let's wear out the telephone lines Purple Print Bookshop, 108 Hastings St., Napier
working it all the way through to the long term Women's Place Bookshop, cnr Tory St. and Cour-
benefit of all our shared goals. O ` --CS tenay Place, Box 19-062, Wellington. O
September 1988 Volume 11 Number 3
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Crone’s Book |
of Wisdom “A
by Valerie Worth IE
A charming collection of
holidays, magical practices and rituals
festivals and holy days that
is more than a datebook
planner. The Goddess Book
of Days is a reference book
oinfv oglrveeadt winitther ewsto m teon ’yssO
uality, Goddess uiure.
magic and occult. Contains
more than 100 beautiful
illustrations. $12.95
Hardbound, 0-87542-758-8
In The Shadow
of the Shaman
jan shamanism. $12.95
0:87542-888-6
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsP
$7.95. “Carol Becker has written a moving
lesbian relati OnNSsShNIpsS.
stie ilia e yout e ua lo
to friends,” says Lillian B. Rubin, author of
Inttainmta le a Sdtdraintgioerns. t“Uon btrhokee n l eTsiebs i aìns a nl i tiemrpaotru-re and
community. Becker presents a fascinating
account of the diverse oflesbians |
as they break up, rebuild their lives, and de-
velop varied relationships with ex-lovers,”
says JoAnn Loulan, author of Zesbian Passion.
Loving Ourselves and Each Other.
MACHO SLUTS, by Pat Califia, $8.95. “Macho
Smloust t dse ep liys a roau si nmg, acsomt e sratpisifyeicnge. a
as a of fiction I have ever read,” says Artemis
| action with a touching de- OakGrove. A “Macho Slut” button, a hit at ABA,
will be shrink-wrapped with each book.
to produce a novel that bristles with terror. (September)
| a Kim’s
A MISTRESS MODERATELY
Dancer Dawkins and the a Katherine Sturtevant, $8.95. An entertaining
readers with a “family” of and well-researched historical romance between
two women — one a playwright, the other an ac-
| News. Now, in Dead Heat, the crew meets up again tress — in Shakespearean England. (September)
Ţ for another humorous adventure. (August) a t
OUT OF ALL TIME, by Terry Boughner, with |
CRUSH, by Jane Futcher, $6.95. “A wonderful
illustrations by N $6.95. A
high-school lesbian romance ... rich with devel-
oping sexuality and attraction with the ins and
outs, true pain and joys of adolescent love. I wish
editor of Feminist Bookstore News.
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms