Feminist
Bookstore
News IN:hl,
Pen の ん oe { dm F5297%
JANUARY/FEBRUARY 1989 Volume 11 Number 5
SE
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:56 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe new bestseller from the author of
The Hite Report and The Hite Report on
Male Sexuality
The New Hite Report
Finally in
Paperback... | €
America's leading authority on sexuality explores
Who else but Shere Hite the truth about love and relationships in the 80s.
rceoveuall d t h egire t m o4st, 5 i0n0ti m awteomen to SHERE
feelings about relation-
ships?
"Often poignant... A study of major importance."—LIBRARY JOURNAL
"Provocative... A searching meditation on how culture influences
love, illustrated by many hypnotizing, sad, sweet, chilling and
lurid stories... [Hite] helps women make sense of their feelings.
She makes them know they are not alone."—nEw YORK TIMES BOOK REVIEW
$5.95 paperback, 752 pages, ISBN 0-312-91378-8
St. Martin’s Press 212-674-5151 Outside NY toll-free 800-325-5525
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:56 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
FROM
NOTES THE
o
o
o
o
oOo0o0000 o
Thanks to everyone for the compliments on recovery to work in a feminist bookstore, if any of you
FBN’s new look! We're still madly in love with our are so inclined... I'd also like to do a "Recovery Fic-
new computer, laser printer and software and are tion" list featuring everyone’s favorite (schlock or
really enjoying learning their various complexities. otherwise, feminist or otherwise) fiction dealing with
Ventura (our desktop publishing program) is a nifty, the whole gauntlet of recovery issues, assuming that
complex program with lots of ins and outs and tricks such a section would sell well alongside the recovery
to learn, so we expect to be well entertained by it for non-fiction books. Send FBN postcard-sized blurbs of
months to come. your favorites or title suggestions, or call and leave a
Donna Murray has agreed to continue doing the book-blurb on FBN’s answering machine (415-626-
Canadian Content column. She'll be calling the 1556). It (unlike me) works 24 hours a day. I'd also love
Canadian stores for news if you don’t call her first! suggestions for a "Books We Want Back In Print" list,
FBN is again looking for someone to do a Canadian some articles, letters, and commentary on selling re-
books column. Call or write if you're interested, can covery books, on stocking male writers in these sec-
be persuaded, or want to recommend a co-worker. tions, reflections on the growing literature and
If all goes as planned, you'll find a copy of Shane whatever else strikes you.... Our deadlines are more
Snowden’s book column from the December Sojourner flexible with our new technology, so call us even if you
"Why Support Feminist Presses" in the envelope with get t hisC issaue r aftoer lou r annSouencead djeaadliynes. ©
this issue. It’s one of the neatest, most succinct articles
on the topic I've seen in a while and it manages to
mention most of the fall books from the feminist
presses. I kept thinking what a great point-of-pur-
chase item it would make if someone would just lay it FBN
out for easy photocopying. The idea kept nagging at
me until I decided it would be easier to do it than to
keep ignoring it, so here it is! Post it, copy it, stuff it in Deadline
customers bags—and let me know if it sells books and
if youd like more things like this from FBN.
FBN’s March issue is often small, so we thought Next Issue:
we'd liven it up by making it a theme issue with the
f wo ec u hs a vo en ct oh re e v lia sr ti so u fs o rk i n ald cs o h o of l ar ne dco v se ur by s t ab no co ek s a: b uS so e far February 25
books, adult children of alcoholics and co-depend-
ency books, and incest and childhood sexual abuse May/ABA Issue:
books. We also have promise of a short piece on work-
ing in a feminist bookstore pre-ACA recovery work. April 15
I'd like to see a piece to go with that on taking one's
January 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:56 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
BUYS
By Patty Callaghan continued to grow and we're very proud of the fact
Crazy Ladies Bookstore/Cincinnati Ohio that we have always been more than a bookstore:
We are an information and referral center for
CINCINNATI : Crazy Ladies has just bought a build- women.
ing! It’s just down and across the street from where we Our meeting room houses regular lectures,
are now and will double our bookstore, meeting room poetry readings, support groups, 12-step meetings,
and storage space on te first floor. It also has second and community meetings. :
and third floors that we will eventually rent out as o We provide a community bulletin board and
office space for women. It cost $30,000: we borrowed pamphlet rack.
$22,000 from four of our women customers (at 10% o We publish a calendar of events and act as a
interest over seven years) and have received the rest clearinghouse for women’s events.
in donations from customers. We're still collecting e We continue to operate as a collective.
money for paint, carpet, etc., and plan to move in the We are on solid footing now and would like to
end of January. purchase our own building in Northside: a permanent
We're all real excited about it and about the com- home for the bookstore plus, in the future, our upper
munity support we've gotten. It means that our sales three floors could house additional women’s busi-
can grow even more. Our space is really getting tight nesses and offices. We have been looking at a number
and I think sales would quit increasing much without of buildings over a period of time and we believe this
more room. is the building we need.
The fundraising letter we sent out follows. About At last! We have the opportunity to have not
15% of our mailing list responded. (I’m told the aver- only a new space for Crazy Ladies Bookstore, but
age is 4%.) also a women’s building in Cincinnati!
Our new address as of February first is 4041 Here’s the financial situation:
Hamilton Ave., Cincinnati, Ohio 45223. We have $3,000 from fundraisers and donations.
With your help we can raise the additional $34,000
The Letter We Sent to Our Mailing List: needed to purchase and renovate the first floor.
We need your help! Purchase Price $30,000
Finally, a room of our own...Crazy Ladies Book- Renovation of Store (1st Floor) 7,000
store has found a building ideal for our needs. It’s at $37,000
a price that seems within reach. 4039-4041 Hamilton $ Already in Building Fund_ 3,000
Avenue is one block down the street from our pre- Amount Needed $34,000
sent location and will give us twice our current We need your money and ideas by October 7 or
bookstore and meeting room space, and many park- sooner if possible, as our option runs out October 20th.
ing spaces are available on the same side of the We look forward to hearing from you in the exciting
street. We have taken an option to buy! days ahead as we begin our second decade.
Do you realize that the bookstore will be begin- Thank you for your continued support!
ning its 10th year in 1989! Over the years we have Maureen Wood,Patty Callaghan,Penelope Smith O
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:56 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
CONTENTS
FBN
Editor & Publisher
Carol Seajay DEPARTMENTS
Art ABdveesrttissinegl lInedrexs .. ... NW.N.. .3 - .7. 779
Mary Collins
Art Books Columnists Tee Corinne C Can la ad sia sn i f C io en dte n t A.. d=. s .o .N N 8. 0 25
Canadian Content Donna Murray Peers. e sia s A NR 4
Children’s Books KT Horning
Gay Men’s Literature Jane Troxell Out of Print Books Wanted/Offered ...... 45
International Books Joni Seager They Went That-A-Way . rs- 31
Mainstream Publishers Sandi Torkildson TriVia 200 a M E A 29
Mainstream Publishers Anita McClellan Writing Wanted... Se 23
Mysteries Karen Axness
Poetry Betsy Nuse
Science Fiction Susanna Sturgis ARTICLES
University Presses Kris Hoover AGUAlafre = e o s 52
Young Adult Books Christine Jenkins
Artemys: The Belgium Women’s Bookstore . ..9
Pr Poo atf r e Ka ed li sn og Crazy Ladies Buysa Building ........... 2
Grandaughters of Comm... ........... 17
Advertising Lambda Literary AWard... -= 3. 15
Lorena Boswell
Montreal: A Closing Letter ........... 21
On the Move "uN. ia 34
The Feminist Bookstore News
456 14th Street Suite 6 RSaghweoedr tGr o wSs tBoackr..i e. s. M u... .a.L .: 1201
PO Box 882554
San Francisco CA 94188
415-626-1556 Special Requests at the Terminist Bookstore . 51
Toronto Women’s Bookstore Celebrates 15 .. 24
ISSN: 0741-6555
tT iH onE s F vE eM hI iN clI eS T f oB rO O thK eS T iO nR fE o r mN aE lW nS e ti ws o t rh ke oc fo m fm emu in ni ic sa t- bookstores. THE BOOKS
FBN reaches 350 feminist and feminist-inclined bookstores ATE BOOKS: a. co eaii d a 43
i En n g t lah ne d ,U . ES u. r oan pd e, C Aa un sa td ra a l ia as , w Ne el wl a Zs e a f lae nm di ,n i Is nt d ib a o o ak ns de l l Jer as p a nin . Our OWn Presses... .... -> 53
t TL lih Hi sb eh E r e a rs r Fusi Eba n Msacns Ir, d N i b Iw Sef Tro es m m. Be i Onn i O’s s Kt Ss t Tbu Oibd Rli ie Eos p h Nt ie Ela e Wc sh S e cr o is m s, p pb r uo i bso e lk i s htr h ee dev i e r sw ie xme r as ti, in m dp e eu r sb - of F GPh aye O S MSm ea Tsl l YL P itr ee r s as ote us r e = . i. . N . . 0 3 . 4 6559
a year in January, March, May, July, September, and Novem-
sb he or u. l dL e t bt ee r rs, e c ea ir vt ei dcl e s t, h e n e fw ifs t e i et ne tm hs oa fn d t h a en n mou on nc te hm e pn rt es ceding Publishers’ RoW.. -3 uef foie iaa: 75
op fu b l ti hca et io aun t. h oS rig s.ned articles and letters are the responsibility ScienCe:Fiction =: 1. 0250%1L61 6w a 6 2 G A 49
SUBSCRIPTIONS are $50 per year/six issues, $95 for two Short Raves. 2 SBRNO 0 NS s s. SiL 40
y poea sr tas g. e .+$6/yr for Canadian pòstage, and $13/yr for overseas University Presses! A. ta A A 67
3 January 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:56 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
Humanspace Books It’s incredibly empowering to get books into kids’
1617 N. 32nd St. #5 hands that have ideas they will never get at home, and
Phoenix AZ 85008 sometimes not at school.
Hi, Nancy Braus
We'd like to read more "How-We-Do-It" articles P.S. Schools here still won't touch lesbian, gay or
in FBN and maybe a column on sharing solutions? We books about sexuality with a ten-foot-pole.
may have more common problems than we know.
Loved the reminder to pay feminist presses first!
Humanspace
Ed. Note: If this request inspires ideas about an article or Page One
conversation you'd like to see in FBN, please give us a call. Books By & For Women
If you want to write an article, great! If you have the ideas 966 N. Lake Ave.
but not the time to write them up, FBN can do the writing Pasadena CA 91104
if you'll talk us through your ideas. Call! Dear FBN,
We've just received information about 1% For
Everyone's Books Peace, which I think is a wonderful concept to pro-
71 Elliot St. mote in women’s bookstores. We're going to imple-
Brattleboro VT 05301 ment it ASAP, as I think women are going to have to
Dear Carol and FBN, set the example.
I'm embarking on a new offshoot of bookselling Also, I was cheered to see a letter in American
and thought the idea might spark some interest in Bookseller from the Tatnuck Bookseller that they are
others. I'm starting to do education for teachers in sending the following notice to publishers with every
using multi-cultural and anti-sexist kids books in the purchase order: "Plastic packing materials are made of
classroom—why this is important, which books to chlorofluorocarbons, a primary cause of our ozone’s
watch out for—and bringing along catalogs and/or destruction. Choose environmental responsibility
mini-book fairs. over convenience. Please pack your shipments with
Especially successful last year were Black History paper. Paper is biodegradable and can be recycled.
Bookfairs in various local schools. I'm trying to get Pack all our future shipments using biodegradable
together annotated lists of books to send around to paper products. Thank you." The store has also posted
local schools for next year for a Black History fair, and a sign explaining this policy at their register and has
a general multi-cultural book fair. I've given dis- switched from plastic to paper bags. We intend to do
counts, but that’s not always necessary. I’m also trying something similar here and encourage other women’s
to figure out a way to provide books for those kids stores to follow suit.
who can’t afford to buy, but that’s a long way off. Nancy Alexander
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:56 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
Ed. note: 1% For Peace is a non-profit, non- partisan
initiative working to create and promote and fund a posi- (“Offers an exciting a
tive peace agenda and encourage businesses and individu- invitation to self-
als to contribute 1% of their profits to activities that will
promote peace. Write to 1% For Peace, PO Box 94, exploration.” —Claudia Black,
Brooktondale NY 14817 or call 607-573-1919 for more author of It Will
information. LE A ING "npn LE N Ae Vve Ir N GHa p p Te Hn E to Me
Les Productions ANNOR ENCHAN l ED ENCHANTED
PO Box 332 Victoria Stn. FOREST
Montreal Quebec The Path from
Canada H3Z 2V5 Relationship
Dear FBN, Addiction to
Well at last Dykeproud is launched! L'Essentielle Intimacy
h pead op la e l ca au mn ec h t op a r ht ey ar f eo xr c eu rs p t sO c fto rb omer t1 h9 et h t aa pn ed . Ia tb o wut a s 4 0 a S &t e Lp ih aa nn ai e B eC co kv ei tn tgton
little like the poetry reading at the Fair. People sat on Paperback, $10.95
t Bh ee t s yf l o ao nr d a Dtt ae pn ht niv e,e l y la u l gis ht ie nn gi n g al o nto g E wla in tha, LJ ibu bd yy ,, SG ul nor iti ia ,, oC r o un st e a oc ut r Ty Oo LLu -Fr R E EHarper & Row sales representative
Gillian, nodding sympathetically with Judy B. and number for ordering:
Christian, which is not to say Judy G. didn’t bring 1In-8 0 0P-e2n42n-s7y73l7v.a nHiaar,p ecra l&l: RSoTwN
forth a giggle or two and that Gillian’s punch lines
don't make you think twice. I love her line, "Some \ 1-800-982-4377. San Francisco )
people will believe anything, Adam and Eve..." are suggesting a $11.95 price for Canada (both retail
It was a first for L'Essentielle to have a tape prices, of course.)
launch. I wonder if any other bookstores have done Yours in sisterhood,
that for tapes of the spoken word. I know it is harder Ann Pearson
for booksellers to conceive of playing poetry while Unwin Hyman
buyers are browsing, but it certainly would promote (Formerly Allen & Unwin)
sales. To hear it is to love it. We hope women are going 8 Winchester Place
to support this idea of having women’s words on tape, Winchester MA 01890
as well as on the written page, to enjoy. Dear FBN
We were very pleased to see Patty Callaghan of
The Crazy Ladies Bookstore recommend Early Ripen-
LA ing in the Letters column of your November/Decem-
ber ‘88 issue. One small point: it’s no longer published
by Routledge; like all Pandora Press books, it's now
L'Essentielle filled their window with books by published by Unwin Hyman, Inc.
the authors on the tape the night of the launch and for Also, you readers should know that the Pandora
some days following. I had made a display of the Press in Gainesville, Florida is a small publisher of just
photos I took of the authors, so there was a lively one title, Inside Scars, a book about incest recovery.
visual component in the store to accompany the cas- They have no connection with us, other than having
sette packaging. chosen the same name as our imprint.
I almost forgot the really good news that the tape Regards
will sell for less than first announced. I believe Lady- Susan Macksey
slipper is suggesting a $10.95 price for the U.S. and we Promotions and Publicity Coordinaton
January 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:56 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
New American Library nist/lesbian/gay authors couldn't get published by
1633 Broadway the big boys, distributors of small presses because the
New York NY 10019 larger distributors didn’t think there was any money
Dear Carol/FBN, in carrying "our" books and feminist bookstores be-
Another book I have been looking for: an old cause the chains (and general bookstores) wouldn't
Signet Classic edition, now out of print, of Sappho, touch our books!
translated by Paul Roche. We want to reprint it but
found we have no copies in any of our libraries.
The First Sex is an interesting work, and, as you
say, quite odd. I do wonder at what sort of reaction it
would get the second time around. In any case, I don’t Some of "our" authors could go to the larger pub-
think we could do it successfully. I think this is for a lishers but chose to stick with "family" not just out of
house with an extensive feminist list in which they loyalty to us but also to assure themselves that their
could publis h this as an historically important work. books will be properly distributed, prominently dis-
Thank you for all your help. played and promoted in our bookstores and, even
Susan Rogers more importantly, read by our customers. |
Associate Editor Moving to chain store distribution didn’t help the
health food industry -- instead, numbers of health
food stores went out of business. Selling books in
A Different chains isn't exactly the benefit to customers some
Drummer people would like to think: Chain stores don’t offer
women any of the services that feminist bookstores
B05 0:K SHEO SPPE do, there are no referrals on to local services, the
An alternative bookstore for thinkers atmosphere of a chain store is hardly conducive to
asking for help, for more information, for finding
A Different DrummerBook Shoppe other women with similar issues.... Chain stores will
1027 N. Coast Hwy. Suite A never offer the concentration of books that feminist
Laguna Beach Ca 92651 bookstores do -- they only carry the new and the glitzy
Dear FBN, and the profit leaders. Are the publishers that are
I feel very strongly about three issues discussed pushing to get into the chains willing to give up their
in the editorial on the "Changing Book Scene" in the sales of back stock titles? Are their authors? Publishers
September FBN: the new focus on distributing books and distributors who shift their focus to distributing
to chain stores, Naiad’s new program of competition to chain stores are going to have an impact on the
with feminist bookstores, and the preferential terms whole of the feminist book industry--and they may
(55% /free freight) "our" publishers are giving Naiad not like the results any more than I will!
to compete with us—but don’t offer to us even for the
same quanities of books. Last May at the ABA, FBN sponsored a day long
Now that feminist/lesbian/gay publishers and meeting of feminist bookstores so we could share and
bookstores have broken the ground and have estab- learn from each other and at the end of the day we
lished a beachhead in the market, are our bookstores were joined by "our" publishers so we could have an
to be abandoned by "our" publishers for the glitz, exchange with them. We did and there was a very nice
glamour, and the promise of big bucks from the feeling of commitment to help each other succeed. Did
chains? Are these publishers forgetting already that I misread the tone? Was it only lip service?
for years the chains refused to carry "our" books at A case in point is the addition of "no frills" to
all—which was the reason that all of us came into Naiad’s already extensive list that they sell directly to
existence in the first place: publishers because femi- their retail customers. How does this help our book-
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:56 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
stores? How does it do anything but compete with us? health food retailer I bought some items directly from
Why are the other publishers giving Naiad a 55% small manufacturers and some from distributors. All
discount and free shipping when they won’t sell to the three groups were committed to our industry and we
bookstores at this price? We talked a lot about dis- had a strong team effort, each recognizing clearly the
counts at the meeting at ABA and the publishers were symbiotic nature of our association. We were all doing
adamant that they couldn't give us better discounts fairly well. Then came the shift which undermined the
and that they absolutely couldn't give us Freight Pass whole industry: The manufacturers began to sell
Through. So why are they giving Naiad an additional directly to the chain supermarkets and bypassed the
15% discount over anything we can buy at and free small independent retailers using price setting and
freight, allowing and encouraging Naiad to sell the volume discounts. These practices destroyed the inte-
same books to our same customers on a much larger grity of the health food industry as I knew and loved
profit margin?! There's already been litigation on the
national scene about The Boys keeping a double dis-
count schedule -- one for the big guys and one for the
rest of the bookstores. And even the courts say its
illegal(not to mention unethical!) and that quantity
orders don’t warrant the extra percentage points the Many of the smaller manufacturers who had
boys were blackmailed into giving the chains. The integrity in their product line and ethics in their busi-
Federal Trade Commission has just filed charges ness practices were forced out of business by cash flow
against the six biggest publishers in the country for the problems (chains take anywhere from six to ten
same`illegal discount systems. Since we have so much months to pay their bills.) But even more importantly,
more of a family thing, it really surprises me to see the consumer was once again cheated! The chains
feminist and gay publishers doing the same thing to cannot and will not hire the personnel to service the
us. products. All knowledge, guidance and integrity con-
Is it possible that these publishers and distribu- cerning these products was lost—perhaps forever.
tors of "our" books have forgotten why feminist Thirty percent of all small manufacturers were driven
/ gay/lesbian bookstores exist? out of business and 40% of the small retailers closed
in an 18 month period.
I saw similar practices destroy the health food With this shift that is taking place, will this be our
industry when I operated a health food store: As a story? Will knowledge of our literature, service to our
TI MARIE
HARRIET’'S DAUGHTER
Marlene Nourbese Philip Valerie Belgrave
A time of turmoil and rebellion
A humorous, perceptive and in the Caribbean. . .A time of
engaging novel about elegance and depravity in
adolescence and the England. . ..An enthralling
adventure of friendship. romance with the epic sweep
435 98924 3 $7.50 of Gone With The Wind.
435 98830 1 $9.50
7 January 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:56 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
customers and interest in furthering minority points instrument. Of course they also have to send the sub-
of view and preserving their literary heritage be ex- scriber info regularly, but the magazine would do
changed for profits? Will our more "esoteric" titles be fulfillment and handle all complaints and hassles.
lost forever?? And, obviously, the U.S. bookstores could perform the
Carroll Leslie same service for foreign periodicals. No one would get
rich on it but at least there would be some payment
just as there is for subscription agencies—and inter-
national access would be vastly improved. (If you start
with a low enough baseline the percent generate
FIGHTING would be really impressive. FWN had a 1000% in-
é c gr re ea as te , i dn o e sa nd ’ t r e itv .e ?n )ue over the past year. Ahem. Sounds
2) There's a new girl on the block. Women’s Self-
Fighting Woman News Defense: A Complete Guide to Assault Prevention
Box 1459 Grand Central Stn. by the Los Angeles Commission on Assaults Against
New York NY 10163 Women. I know two of the three writers credited and
Dear FBN, FWN'’s self-defense book reviewer sniff-tested it and
Can't help thinking of you. Just got FWN #35 to said it was great. (We'll run a review of it in #36.) They
press and am looking hard for the next FBN. Had a also have some other books on survival but we haven’t
couple ideas I'd like to run by you. reviewed or seen them so a note to LACAAW might
1) I note that you mentioned your Canadian bank be of interest to a bookstore wanting to stock relevant
account in one issue. I was going to look into this at items on violence prevention and survival. 533 N.
the Book Fair but due to the flu I never got there. Fairfax Ave., Los Angeles CA 90036.
Montreal is an eight hour bus trip from NYC and I just 3) We are still looking for a responsible bookstore
couldn't make it. (We're out the cost of our half table to work with on selling self-defense and other relevant
and have a huge customs bill - $170 - for one lousy books to Fighting Woman News readers through the
little box that I shipped into Canada and $128 for magazine. We’ll do the pitching, they'll do the fulfill-
returning it. —Censored!!—) Anyway, the foreign ex- ment, and we split the profits, such as they may be..
change thing is something I've been thinking about for I'm glad there will be another WIP Conference. I
a while. The hassle of opening numerous bank ac- remember enjoying the first two although there was
counts doesn’t really appeal to me; we have a sub- no $$ to go to the one in 1985 and I doubt we can make
scriber or two anywhere you can think of, e.g., the 1989 one. These events are now geared toward
Vanuatu, Papua New Guinea, South Africa, etc. What women who make a living on their work (more power
I was thinking of was a network (nice old-fashioned to em) and we who are still in the free labor and
word that) of women’s bookstores and publishers. For barely-enough-bucks-to-get-to- print stage are some-
example, women who want to subscribe to a foreign what neglected. At least that’s how I feel about it.
publication can pay for it in their local currency at a Although I have no reason at all to go down to the
bookstore. The bookstore owner then deducts an Village these days, I’ve walked past Judith’s Room
agent's fee and every quarter or month or whatever is twice alVreadya julst e to r reaid ethe si gnE. Hoape d theys p ros peOr.
appropriate to the particular periodical sends one US$
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:56 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
Presented by Marian Lens Too often the distributors don’t deal in books by
at the Third International Feminist Bookfair small publishing houses. Lesbian and feminist edi-
tions frequently come into this category. As for the
In a time of world wide economic crises, and the titles brought out by the mainstream publishers, dis-
diminishing of the feminist movement, Artemys was tributors simply don’t stock them. Even new publica-
opened in Brussels, on the 23rd of November 1985. tions are stocked in insufficient quantities, and they
What stimulated me most was the growing inter- are not restocked once the initial supply runs out.
national feeling of lesbian political awareness.
multi liS nit gu ua at le d b oi on k s ha o pco s dm eao lp so li mta an in lE yu r io np e Fan re nc ci hty , , E t nh ge - "We work with ten currencies,
lish, and Dutch publications. This not only means all with fluctuating exchange
three different markets to explore and three different
types of public, but also three times the amount of rates!"
work. Capital and energy are needed to stock an
in-depth choice of titles. So the longer a book has been out, the more
Above all, to enter the field of lesbian and femi- difficult it may become to obtain it.
nist bookselling means combining a spećialization It has taken us more than a year to build up our
with a controversial orientation. Add this to the fact stock, and even now there are still titles and publishers
that managing a bookshop in Belgium is more difficult which we have never been able to obtain despite our
than in most other countries in Europe, due to low strenuous efforts.
discounts (in direct relation to the size of your order) Thus we are faced with two major problems:
and an extraordinarily complex tax system. We work Many of the smaller publishers are widely scat-
with five different tax rates! This leads to an intricate tered. This makes feminist bookfairs extremely impor-
time-and-money-consuming administration. Even for tant. Especially this one, because it encompasses the
a general bookshop it takes three to six years before it three major themes of Memory/Power/Strategy.
becomes self-supporting. Many books are not available through distribu-
Furthermore, we are confronted with a Belgium tors and can only be imported direct. We work with
economic world which has great difficulties in ac- ten currencies — All with fluctuating exchange rates,
cepting the existence of business women. The absence mind you! There are only two wholesalers in Belgium
of networks for feminists and lesbians makes itself to stock the thousands of English language editions.
cruelly felt: We always have to start from scratch and Congratulations to Airlift (UK) and to Giovanni's
are never able to beriefit from any (political) pressure Room (USA) for their remarkable distribution services
from these groups. of lesbian and feminist literature in English.
January 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:56 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
We always have to watch and manage our time For two years we have reserved our space for
and money very carefully. It takes time to carry out lesbians and for women. Quite a challenge! It’s a
research, to order the books, to send (too many) re- utopia which has been quite extraordinary to ex-
minders. There are also the difficulties of obtaining perience, but impossible (economically) to sustain. In
catalogues, getting representatives to visit, restocking, Belgium, lesbians and feminists either don’t read very
and accounting. All these problems are magnified as much, or they do not buy their books in a feminist
we deal with so many different countries. We often bookshop. Their support therefore has proven insuffi-
have to carry excess stock to avoid running out of cient to ensure us of our survival and to enable us to
titles, to make sure that our orders are taken seriously, continue to propagate our ideas. This has forced us,
or to obtain a higher discount. This eats up our already after much reflection, to adopt a different political-
limited budget. We have never received any subsidies. commercial strategy: To keep the beautiful mez-
zanine, where the lesbian books are to be found, to
“Congratulations to Airlift ourselves, we have decided to open the ground floor
to the public.
and Giovanni's Room for Thanks to a donation made by a lesbian who
their remarkable distribution h me er mse blf er i s o f n o ot u r r i ac sh s, o c a ian td io nw , h wo e h a hs a v b ee c bo em ene a a b lv ee r ty o a mct oi vv ee,
SETVİCes. downtown to a far better commercial spot. This gift is
both touching and stimulating, as it stresses her regard
for and her trust in everything we do for lesbians.
«What are our purchasing strategies? What selections? In order to realize our ideas properly, we have
What priorities to set? had to look for a—seemingly neutral—sound
"Selling books is selling ideas." Our choice has economical base for our activities. We have found this
been to give a platform to these ideas which, even in the selling of artistic postcards. In a field where
within the feminist and some parts of the lesbian quality and originality are a must for women to be
movement, are not sufficiently expressed. This is why printed, we have been able to build a stock consisting
lw ese b ig aniv ise m p .riority to the great taboo within feminism: mainly of work by lesbians, feminists, and women.
As we are also concerned with other forms of T boh oe k sr , e s be uar tc h t h f iso r i s t h ci os m m pea ny s a tb ee d a fs o re x bac yt i n tg h e a s e a si it e r i s a cf -or the
Oppression, we cover this in all fields, e.g., racism, counting, by being far more lucrative, and very
a Sg emeis itm is, m p .hysical handicaps, fat oppression, anti- relaxing.
"We manage our time and
What are our means? What power do we have?
We are strong enough to assert our identity, and money very carefully."
to define our territory. From the start, I have defined
in our Legal Statutes that the association has to be run Artemys, a sound initiative and a long-term pro-
by lesbians. So we operate for 95% on lesbian energy. ject, as fantastic and enterprising as our involvement
This is a political statement as much within the femi- with it. Artemys—a way of life.
nist movement as towards officialdom. Many feminist Artemys
groups still resent us, refuse to acknowledge us, and Rue Saint-Jean
refuse to mention our existence (law of silence). Galerie Portier 8-10
Another hindrance has been that the State Bank has 1000 Brussels, Belgium
refused to grant us a loan and, more recently, the Tel. 02/512.03.47
Community of Brussels has refused to rent commer-
cial space to us because they said we were a "lesbian Marian thanks Susan, Dominique, Mariska, Giovanna
club"! and Rita for translation assistance. O
January 1989 10
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:56 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
To express your concern about this situation,
write to your representatives in the House and Senate
urging them to take this matter up with Alan C. Nel-
son, the Commissioner of INS. Write to Commissioner
BOSTON: A year ago, the U.S. Immigration and Nelson at Rm. 7100 Chester Arthur Bldg., 425 I Street
Naturalization Service (INS) announced that it would NW, Washington DC 20536. Please send copies to
no longer deny permanent residency to American- David Cook, Randall's lawyer at the Center for Con-
born writer and teacher Margaret Randall who lost stitutional Rights.
her U.S. citizenship when she became a Mexican citi- This litigation has become very costly and your
zen in 1967. News articles that appeared around the donations are urgently needed. Donations are tax-ex-
world madeit seem as though a victory had been won. empt if checks are made out to "CCR-Randall Fund"
The reason for this positive change was that in and mailed to the Center for Constitutional Rights,
November 1987, Congress passed a one-year override 666 Broadway, NY NY 10012.
of the ideological exclusion provision of the McCar-
ran-Walter Act, which (had) allowed persons to be
barred from this country on ideological grounds.
Randall's lawyers promptly filed for her residency
permit under this new legislation, and the INS said it
would desist in its efforts to deport her.
It was expected that the revisions of McCarran- Silver Moon reports that another three consign-
Walter would be made permanent this fall. Instead, ments from Giovanni's Room have "gone astray" in
On October 1, 1988, Congress extended Section 901 for the post. Sent in March, they cost Silver Moon
two more years but limited the override of the ideo- £500.Reading Matters, one of the first progressive
logical exclusion provision of McCarran-Walter to bookstores in England to be attacked by Tories wield-
"nonimmigrant aliens." This means that persons seek- ing Clause 28, has turned the attack around and come
ing permanent residence status can again be excluded out of the struggle with new premises next to the
on ideological grounds. Haringey Central Library and a grant from the
A decision in Randall's appeal against INS’s de- Haringey (City) Council to refurbish it! FBN has heard
portation order has been pending before the Board of only parts of the story and would welcome a full
Immigration Appeals (BIA) for the last eight months. report from the U.K. on the turnaround! Says The
Now the INS has informed the BIA that the newest Radical Bookseller, “The local Tory bigots knew not
revision of the law should be applied to Randall and what they did when they attacked the shop for stock-
that she is no longer protected from deportation on ing lesbian and gay literature...”
ideological grounds. Meanwhile, Gay’s the Word, London’s gay and
Randall's lawyers take the position that the old lesbian bookstore has achieved an agreement in
Section 901 governs her case, since the only reason her principal from the Camden Council to a new lease for
case was not resolved during the law's existence was 12 years.
the BIA’s unexplained failure to act on her application. - News from The Radical BooksellerO
11 January 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:56 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
After six months of investigation, the Federal Sol Kurtzman, former co-owner with his wife Betti
Trade Commission has filed complaints charging of The Birmingham Bookstore in Birmingham, Michi-
Harper & Row, The Hearst Book Group, Random gan, first brought the book industry case to the FTC's
House, Macmillan, The Putnam Publishing Group, and attention eight years ago. Kurtzman was involved in
Simon and Schuster with practicing price discrimina- combating the national domination of chains in the
tion by granting better terms to Waldenbooks, B. Dal- food business in the 1930's, when he was a food broker.
ton and Crown book chains than to general At the time, A&P supermarkets received kickbacks
independent bookstores, thereby injuring competition. from certain suppliers, thus allowing them to wipe out
The complaint also charges that publishers gave pro- competition with lower prices. In 1937, Kurtzman says,
motional services to the chains without making them the Robinson-Patman Act was put to one of its first
available to independent booksellers. An administra- major tests. "It prevented A&P from dominating the
tive judge will be assigned to the case who will gather food business completely and permitted the local su-
evidence and make a decision. permarket chains to develop," Kurtzman told News-
This is probably the most exciting news for inde- wire. After opening the Birmingham Bookstore in 1975,
pendent bookstores since the Northern California Kurtzman observed publishers favoring book chains
Booksellers Association won the suit against Avon for and complained to the FTC in 1980. FTC attorney
giving chain stores additional discounts. This will bean Heather Kirkwood took up the investigation and re-
exciting case to watch—one that will have far-reaching fused to sign off on her case against the publishers for
consequences for feminist and gay bookstores as well eight years despite pressure within the FTC to drop it,
as the rest of the independent bookstores. according to Kurtzman. Further, he speculated, the FTC
-Info from ABA Newswire and Publishers Weekly O waited to see the outcome in 1986 of the NCBA suit
against Avon for its discriminatory mass-market dis-
counts before resuming its investigation. In June 1988
the six publishers received draft complaints from the
FTDC. e Thce e Commmibssioen r fin al ly2 f0iled, a co1mp9lai8nt 8 on. :
"The case against Avon proved the precedent of
discrimination," Kurtzman commented. Andy Ross,
former NCBA president and owner of Cody’s in Berke-
Ballantine/Del Rey/Fawcett/Ivy has announced ley, California, told Newswire, "With the FTC case, I feel
a new and simpler discount schedule, becoming the all the issues must be put on the table and resolved once
fourth mass-market publisher to change its discount and for all. Co-op policies, returns policies, secret deals,
policy following the Northern California Booksellers display allowances, short shipment allowances, and
Association's legal victory with their lawsuit charging things I don’t even know about have to be scrutinized
Avon/Hearst with discriminatory discount practices. at the hearings. If the publishers can prove to the Fed-
Avon, Bantam, Dell and Berkley/Jove have already eral government that all their terms are above board
rewritten their discount schedules. Warner and Pocket and non-discriminatory, I'll be satisfied. But right now,
Books have yet to act, though the FTC actions may I'm not."
provide them with further incentive. o -from ABA Newswire O
January 1989 12 Volume 11 Number 5
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:56 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
by the Nazis, is going to be a very complex experience,
I am looking forward to representing feminist and
lesbian small press publishing in this undertaking. I
believe that the Women In Print movement has a
vibrancy that can teach a great deal to those genuinely
interested in the future of publishing, and I expect to
in Toronto have announced the birth of a new feminist be able to articulate this position.
publishing house, Second Story Press: Feminist Pub- To this end, I would appreciate all feminist and
lishers. Second Story is a worker-owned co-op, com- lesbian presses who are interested in doing so to send
mitted to socialist feminist, anti-racist and me a copy of your current catalog (by return mail), so
non-heterosexist publishing. The new press grew out that I can include these with the material I bring.
of a split among the Women’s Press collective about I look forward to talking and writing about the
what constituted anti-racist publishing. triwp wheni It geth back , a nd y shariong uwhat . I hav e Olearned
Second Story hopes to establish a forum for writ-
ers and readers that will allow for a range of voices
and strategies for change. The new press welcomes
support and ideas. To contact Second Story, write 111
Queen St. East Suite 370, Toronto Ontario M5C 1S2 or
telephone 416-362-8666. —Info from Kinesis O
Seal Press is launching a new series, the Seal
Lesbian Short Fiction Collection, which will feature
the short stories of two lesbian writers in each volume.
The first book will be published in the Fall of 1989,
followed by two collections each year. O
By Nancy K. Bereano
I recently applied for and was awarded an Edi-
torial Fellowship to the Jerusalem International Book
Fair (March 12-18, 1989). According to the letter of
acceptance, "The Editorial Fellowship program has
been established to recognize talented book editors,
who have worked as an editor from four to ten years
and who have been identified by a committee of Womyn's Braille Press now owns their own Ver-
senior publishing professionals as exceptional men saPoint 40 characters per second Braille embosser.
and women committed to the world of books and Owning a Braille printer of their own has been a
ideas and to the future of publishing." dream at WBP for more than five years. The purchase
I applied as an out feminist and lesbian, talking was made possible by a large donation from a long-
about my editing experience during both my years at time WBP supporter who has previously helped WBP
Firebrand and my time as Editor of the Feminist Series to buy computer equipment. The hardware challenge
for Crossing Press. Joan Nestle, author of A Restricted solved, the next challenge is to begin putting the books
Country (winner of the American Library Association on disk. WBP is now looking for volunteers who can
1988 Gay Book Award) wrote a letter of support. key in books using BEX and/or who know how to
Although going to Israel as a lesbian, a Jew in format the material for output. If you have the skills
conflict with Israeľs politics, and the granddaughter or know someone else who does, contact WBP, PO Box
of a German Jew whose entire family was destroyed Continued on Page 79
13 January 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:56 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
NEA to assist non-profit arts organizations in
development and growth toward greater economic
self-sufficiency), Oregon Arts Commission, the
Coordinating Council of Literary Magazines and pri-
vate individual donors. The editorial board is a collec-
tive group that has changed and grown. In 1986 the
board expanded with the introduction of Calyx Books
"Since 1972 when New Directions for Women began and has since published five books.
publishing, it has served as an alternative voice to the The editors had recently completed three years of
mass media, offering feminist news not found else- work on their fifth book, the long-awaited The Forbid-
where and opinions not often expressed. Six issues a den Stitch: An Asian American Women’s Anthology. O
year are filled with astute investigative reporting,
memorable interviews, biting social commentary and
lively book, movie and music reviews. NDW strives
for the kind of balance that mirrors their readers’
lives—in-depth news coverage and analytical articles
On issues vital to our survival and growth, with a
picture of popular culture, recreational pursuits and Dorothy Abbott has joined the staff of the
personal experiences. A witty, irreverent, indis- National Endowment for the Arts as the Assistant
pensable and blissfully biased newsmagazine reach- Director of the Literature Program. Her background
ing 55,000 readers nationwide. Subscriptions are includes serving as a board member of the Coordinat-
$10/year for individual, $16/year for institutions. ing Council of Literary Magazines, a commentator for
Bookstores pay 75¢ per copy sold on a $1.75 cover Florida Public Radio, a consultant with the Florida
price. Minimum order is 5 copies of each issue. Mast- Endowment for the Humanities where she developed
heads not required for credit. NDW depends on the a radio series based on Florida writers, and work with
honor system for bookstore returns. For more infor- the University of Mississippi Center for the Study of
mation contact New Directions for Women, 108 West Southern Culture. She is currently editing the col-
Palisade Ave., Englewood NJ 07631. 201-568-0226. O lected interviews of Jubilee author Margaret Walker.
Dorothy is a long-term subscriber to FBN and has
a particular passion for feminist publishing and net-
working. Anyone who wants more information on
NEA programs or grant application guidelines may
contact Dorothy at NEA, Nancy Hanks Center, 1100
The second annual Stanley H. Holbrook Award Pen6nsylv8ania 2 Ave.- NW5, W4ashin9gton6 DC . 20 506 . 20O2-
for significant contributions to Oregon literature was
presented to Margarita Donnelly for the editorial
board of Calyx: A Journal of Art and Literature by Women.
Calyx was founded in 1976 by four women editors to
provide a West Coast forum for women writers and
artists. During the past 12 years the journal has re- Arts is to foster the excellence, diversity and vitality of
ceived a number national awards as well as recogni- the arts in the United States and to help broaden the
tion and grant support from the National Endowment availability and appreciation of such excellence, diver-
for the Arts Literature Program (both a Journal grant sity and vitality. A lot of people have been working
and a Small Press grant as well as inclusion in NEA’s over the years to make these grants increasingly avail-
"Target Technical Assistance Program," a special two able to women and minorities despite the shrinking
year project providing on-site consultants from the Continued on Page79
January 1989 14 Volume 11 Number 5
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:56 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
The First Annual
Lambda
Awards
Lammys Nominations Due Feb. 17 and gay literary community, will select a single book
in each category from among the finalists.
Gala Awards Program Planned "The Annual Lambda Literary Awards program
is a tremendous opportunity for the book industry to
The Lambda Rising Book Report has initiated a work together in recognizing the valuable contribu-
literary award program to recognize excellence in gay tion it makes to gay culture," said Deacon Maccubbin,
and lesbian writing and publishing. publisher of The Book Report. "The movies have their
"The time has come for the literary excellence of Oscars, Broadway has its Tonys. It’s time for the
the lesbian and gay community to be recognized," lesbian and gay community to honor its literary stars."
says Jane Troxell, editor of The Book Report. "1988 was A gala awards banquet will be held June 2, 1989,
a tremendous year for the writers, editors and pub- the Friday evening before the start of the American
lishers of gay and lesbian literature. As a result, all Booksellers Association convention. The banquet will
lesbian and gay people have benefited from this un- be followed by the traditional gay and lesbian party.
paralleled growth in both substance and quality. It will be held at the Hyatt Regency on Capitol Hill.
The Book Report is inviting the reading public (and Tentative emcees are authors Armistead Maupin
especially booksellers) to participate in the Lambda (Tales of the City) and Florence King (Confessions of a
Literary Awards by nominating their favorite gay and Failed Southern Lady). Tickets are $50 and the affair is
lesbian books published in 1988. Awards will be given black tie optional for both women and men. The cock-
for Lesbian Fiction, Gay Men’s Fiction, Lesbian Non- tail hour will begin at 6:00 and vegetarian meals will
fiction, Gay Men’s Non-fiction, Lesbian Mys- be available. In an effort to make the event both ele-
tery/Science Fiction, Gay Men’s Mystery /Science gant and accessible, a liberal amount of financial as-
Fiction, Gay and Lesbian Poetry, Lesbian First Novel, sistance will be available. To inquire about financial
Gay Menr’s First Novel, Lesbian Small Press Book assistance, call Jane Troxell at The Book Report.
Award, Gay Men’s Small Press Book Award, and "Not only is this an opportunity for greater visi-
AIDS (a special category this year). bility for gay and lesbian writers, it is a chance to
Nominations can be sent directly to The Book Re- recognize the editors and publishers whose commit-
port. Ballots are being distributed through gay and ment and unfailing support helped make 1988 a truly
lesbian newspapers and bookstores and The Book Re- memorable year for outstanding new books," Troxell
port, though the formal ballot is not required to nom- added.
inate a book for an award. The deadline for For further information about the awards pro-
nominations is February 17, 1989. Five finalists in each gram, contact Will Guilliams or Jane Troxell, The Book
category will be announced nationally on March 1. Report, Lambda Rising Bookstore, 1625 Connecticut
A panel of 60 judges, five for each category, rep- Ave. NW, Washington DC 20009 or phone 202-462-
resenting a broad cross section of the entire lesbian 6965. Nominations due by February 17. O
15 January 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:56 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsAnnouncing .
g
S gir s ty AN7
4 Ate ra p
| |
| |
sponsored by Lambda Rising BOOK REPORT
You Can Participate In This Event by nominating your favorite books for recognition. Simply
fill out the accompanying ballot. Remember, only choose titles published in 1988. You need not make
nominations in every category. A panel of judges from the national literary community will select the
winners from five finalists in each category.
Submit nominations to: Lambda Literary Awards, 1625 Connecticut Avenue, NW,
Í Lesbi Waashningto n, DCF 20i00c9-10t13.i Noominnatio ns mTust ibet relceieved b y AFebruuary t 17,h 198o9. r |
| Gay Men's Fiction Title Author
Lesbian Nonfiction Title Author |
| Gay Men’s Nonfiction Title Author |
Í Lesbian Mystery/Science Fiction Title Author. |
Gay Men’s Mystery/Science Fiction Title Author
| Gay and Lesbian Poetry Title Author |
| Lesbian First Novel Title Author |
| Gay Men's First Novel Title Author |
| Lesbian Small Press Book Award Title Author |
Gay Men’s Small Press Book Award Title Author
| AIS (Special Category) Title Aser =|
Q For further information or Awards Program reservations, call (202)462-6965. Y
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:56 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
Or
By Suzanne Staubach translator, poet and editor, would often become
frustrated with the workings of the Chief 15, the small,
Judith Doyle pulls a freshly printed page from more than two decade-old printing press that they
her press and shakes her head in dismay. She is re- were using. Doyle was intrigued with the mechanics
printing Margaret Randall's Memory Says Yes and a of the machine and found she had the patience to
nearly invisible ink spot is appearing on the pages. cajole it along. Soon, she took over the responsibility
She shuts the press down and cleans the plate. Then for running it. "Sometimes people are startled," Doyle
she starts the press and it clatters and hisses and fills says, "When they stop by and Sandy is at the type-
the garage where she is working with its loud and writer and I am running the machinery."
rhythmic sounds. Now she is printing on their new press, a ten year
Judith Doyle and Alexander (Sandy) Taylor run old Heidelberg Kord which they have owned for one
Curbstone Press. year. This press is the size of a Volkswagen bug and
Taylor founded Curbstone in 1975 and Doyle takes up one side of the climate controlled garage
joined the press in 1976. In those early days, Taylor, a where it is kept.
17 January 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:56 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
she had the personality to take the documentary women in Guatemala. The indigenous women that
portraits that she liked. Over the years, she acquired Anderson photographed were the sisters, mothers,
the skills, and then a year ago the press, the Heidel- daughters, friends, of missing women, and they were
berg Kord, that would make publishing such a book very similar to them. Many of the villages where
in a high quality edition possible. Anderson and Garlock worked are now gone, burnt,
or the houses empty, the inhabitants disappeared,
massacred, or fled. They realized that Anderson had
produced two sets of photographs, the one docu-
menting weaving, the other portraits of the women
themselves.Friends in the industry advised Doyle and
Taylor that publishing a book of photos would be cost
prohibitive, suicidal for a press of such limited re-
sources. But Doyle was determined and felt that, by
doing the work herself, it would be economically
feasible. She looked for and bought the Heidelberg
with money her parents loaned her from a small in-
Mercado Oriental/Lisa Kokin 8607 heritance they had received.
She had long been using her photographic skills
That book is Granddaughters of Corn. Initially, to make the plates for the books that Curbstone pub-
Anderson and Garlock went to Guatemala to docu- lished and printed themselves (they sometimes send
ment Guatemalan weaving. Their book, Guatemalan larger books of prose out to be printed), but Doyle
Textiles Today was published in 1978 by Watson- knew that Granddaughters would require special
Guptill. Garlock writes in Granddaughters of their skills. She was going to use duotones to get the quality
experience. "Marilyn would introduce herself to the prints that she wanted, a process she had known in
weaver she wished to photograph. She would care- theory only until the Heidelberg was purchased.
fully explain the purpose of her project and from a box Doyle sets the type using the Macintosh Plus and
would bring out 8 x 10 black and white photographs Laser Writer and photographs it. She also makes nega-
from previous trips, showing women from other parts tives of the photographs which are going to be used in
of Guatemala weaving on backstrap looms. Immedi- the book, making two halftones for each image. Then
ately she would be surrounded by women eagerly see page 79
examining these photographs, commenting on the
costume of the women portrayed and discussing
these other weavers’ techniques. She would then in-
vite the participation of a weaver... With few excep-
tions, women allowed themselves to be photographed
at their looms.... By the time she was ready to pack her
cameras, Marilyn had established rapport with the
weaver. And then, almost invariably, the weaver
would shyly ask if she might have her portrait taken...
She would disappear into her adobe or thatched home
and reappear after a few moments, her hair combed
or bound with a cinta wearing her best huipil and
corte." The photographs were a collaboration between INTERNATIONAL WOMENS DAY
the photographer and her subjects. Día Internacional de la Mujer LJ] JI
At the same time, Anderson and Garlock became PHU NÜ QUÕC TË SIKU YA WANAWAKE WAMATAIFA
acutely aware of the many "disappeared" and killed (A) Int'l Women's Day $8. P015CW
18 Volume 11 Number 5
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:56 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
"I love to work with this press," Doyle says, "I can to combine portraits of Guatemalan women with in-
count on it doing what it is supposed to do. Usually if formation about the circumstances in which hundreds
there is a problem, it is because I didn’t do something of women have disappeared and to contrast these
I was supposed to do." The miniscule spot is still images with statistical data, testimonies, and reports."
appearing on the pages and she shuts the press down It is a moving book and Doyle’s handling of Ander-
for a second time and once more cleans the plate. son's black and white photos, many of them straight
Satisfied that she has removed the offending blotch, forward portraits of Guatemalan weavers, their eyes
she starts the Heidelberg. The machine lifts sheets of looking deep into the camera, each dressed in her best
paper, one at a time, and takes them inside itself, handwoven finery, is superb.
across the blanket and then spits the finished sheets Doyle grew up in a farming family in north-
back out in a neat stack. Doyle snatches one of the first eastern Connecticut and earned her degree in English
tp ia og ne s . i n P e hr ef re c t w. o S rh ke . is pleased. Doyle demands perfec- ca at m t eh re a U ben fi ov re er ,s i t sy h e o f o b tC ao inn en de c t ai c u jot b. N tae kv ie nr g h pav asi sn pg o r u tsed a
photos. Her stay at the passport shop was brief, but it
was there that she became deeply interested in photo-
graphy and set out to learn all she could about it. She
became a photographer, exhibited, did some free lance
commercial work, took the obligatory wedding pic-
tures and eventually became involved in a new Hart-
ford gallery with three other artists. After the gallery
closed Doyle went to work for a gravure operation
and became the head of its photo department. The
company produced the cylinders to print fabric and
wallpaper. During this period, Doyle continued her
own photography and became a part of Curbstone.
"I see that real printing will devour one’s entire
life," Virginia Woolf wrote to her sister after she and
Leonard Woolf unpacked their new printing press.
Though she enjoyed their publishing venture, Woolf
eventually sold her share of Hogarth Press because
she felt it was taking too much time away from her
own work. Doyle, however, after two years with
(PB0)6 2WNLoven Resistance/Resistencia Tejida $10. C liu shr ib ns gto n ae n, d ae fc tid ered hth ra et s yh ee sp ,r e sf he er r e led t o ew o r jok in dp u gb a-
d t e a r f t h r b an ve
up her own photography to devote herself full time to
Doyle's most ambitious printing project is the press. Publishing and printing have become her
Granddaughters of Corn: Portraits of Guatemalan own work.
Women by photographer Marilyn Anderson and From the beginning, Doyle dreamed of someday
writer/historian Jonathan Garlock. Garlock explains publishing a book of photographs. She says she slowly
in the introduction, "In seeking to illuminate the hid- realized that her particular skills and interests were
den war in Guatemala — this third ring in the Central more suited for promoting photography that she ad-
American circus of violence in which Nicaragua and mires than for continuing as a photographer herself.
El Salvador have been the main events — we decided Though technically accomplished, she didn’t feel that
Suzanne Staubach is the manager of the General Books Graphics for this article courtesy of Syracuse Cultural
Desk at the University of Connecticut Co-op. Workers, Box 6367, Syracuse NY 13217.
19 January 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:56 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
(The Publisher’s Letter from Ragweed Press’ some of these. If you are looking for any Ragweed
Catalog) book, do inquire if we still have copies. Our latest
catalogue lists what we hope to do this fall and winter.
I was writing a positive and cheery publisher's No forthcoming titles have been dropped, but publi-
letter when an arsonist struck the 1840s building cation dates have been extended.
where Ragweed was housed. A long, dark night of fire Without this disaster, I would have told you more
hoses rained down on us and black soot settled on about our year. Sales were up 15%, and we had a
everything. In one of those ironic twists The Globe record number of books planned. We successfully sold
and Mail had just published an article: Ragweed Pub- rights to some of our children’s books which will be
lisher Goes Against PEI Tide. We are now surfacing published in Welsh, Danish, German, Dutch, Spanish
from a tidal wave. My heart skipped many beats as I and Catalan. Ragweed established a new imprint,
watched flames consume the wooden building and gynergy books, which will publish feminist fiction and
the fire fighters valiantly pour tons of water to "save" poetry. My letter last year commented that I wished
us, a business built entirely of paper. When we were our poetry books had to be reprinted. Now I can
allowed inside, the damage was more than I could report that it actually happened—The Fat Woman
imagine. Measures Up by CM Donald is almost through its
second printing in just over a year. We established
new distribution links in the USA and UK and a
distribution arrangement with U of T Press in Canada.
Two of our authors, Emily Nasrallah and Deirdre
EEA ` Kessler, were featured at the Calgary Olympics liter-
ary events. A big fall title is Janice Kulyk Keefer’s
=F} Courtesy of Booklegger Archives collection of short stories Transfigurations.
Many friends of Ragweed kindly gathered to Ragweed’s staff joins me in sending to all of you
begin the clean-up—unpacking hundreds of boxes to who called, wrote and sent encouragement and fire
discover any dry books, rescuing camera-ready art- fund donations a giant hug and deep thanks for your
work sitting on the light table, distributing archives to support in helping us find the phoenix in these literary
the floors of homes to dry out. Supporters called to ashes.
sympathize and offer help. Writers in PEI started a fire Libby Oughton
fund to help get books back in print. The national Ragweed Press
media picked up the story and donations began arriv- Box 2023
ing from across the country. Coach House Press col- Charlottetown, Prince Edward Island
lected a large donation from their far-from-rich staff Canada C1A 7N7
and writers, and issued a challenge to other literary
publishers. All this support helped Ragweed’s staff
find the courage and energy to keep going. It will take
many, many months to return to our level of produc-
tion before that fateful Friday, but with the grace of
friends and a benevolent muse we are trying. Fire and
water consumed over 18,000 books, putting some new
and backlist titles out-of-print. We hope to reprint
Volume 11 Number 5 20 January 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:56 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
JUNE 14 TO, 19,1988 -MONTREAL
Montreal know that many friendships and new working rela-
Dear Friends, tionships were formed during the week of the Fair,
After spending the summer cleaning up the Book lesbian visibility was an important aspect of the Fair
Fair, paying the bills, moving out of the office and into and many women of colour and women from the
our homes, writing government reports and so on, we so-called Third World commented that they were
are sending out a final letter to Fair participants. Al- pleased to have come to an event that was not domi-
though we do not have a deficit, we do not have the nated by the concerns of white Western feminists.
funds to send this to all participants—we are counting A major criticism that was made of the Fair was
on your cooperation to make sure that those who are low public attendance (about 7,000 people came). We
interested will have a chance to read it. had always thought that our projected figure of 10,000
It seems impossible to evaluate the Book Fair in was fairly ambitious, but nevertheless we hoped to
any sort of global way, for not only are there areas achieve it. Sometimes attendance seemed lower than
where we succeeded and others where we failed, there it actually was because everyone was in workshops
is no real consensus on what those areas are. We made and the exhibition hall looked deserted. And that was,
a number of difficult decisions during the organiza- no doubt, partly because we placed the accent on the
tion of the Fair and of course it is easier to look back program as opposed to the exhibition, on authors
now and to say we should have done it differently. rather than publishers. Some publishers were disap-
We have had a lot of positive feedback from those pointed, feeling that they had come a long way at
who attended: praise for the volunteers who worked great expense to an event that was more a feminist
during the Fair and for the simultaneous translation, conference than a book fair. Others stated they had
appreciation of the workshops and readings. We made useful contacts, sales were satisfactory and they
21 January 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:56 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
were pleased with the experience. We did feel that not mately made us, as organizers, much more sensitive
enough emphasis was put on the book fair itself, a to the issue of racism, we were not able to resolve
problem that was exacerbated by the fact that we were matters so that all women would feel welcome at the
obliged to hold some of the workshops at the opposite Fair, and much less so that all women would be
end of the campus. willing to put in the time and energy desperately
needed to help make it a reality. It was an important
learning experience for many of the white women
involved in the Fair, learning to transform anger and
pain into a more constructive political analysis where
we learn to take responsibility for our actions, over-
coming liberal guilt, and seeking to understand the
power dynamics of a racist society, which the privi-
On the other hand, perhaps attendance was lower leged are generally so reluctant to acknowledge (what
than hoped for because no attempt was made to hide Adrienne Rich called white solipsism in her essay
the lesbian content of the Fair (we have since endured "Disloyal to Civilization").
several homophobic attacks). Even the word "femi- Racism, decolonisation and empowerment were
nist" in the late 80's seems to cause disinterest! And key themes in many of the workshops and readings.
when we did try to publicize the event through the We hope that the ways in which these issues were
media, we were obliged to play up authors rather than dealt with have generated new ways of seeing the
books, because one well-known name is more news- world, and will help to build approaches that will be
worthy than 10,000 books. When all of this is taken both creative and politically constructive. We hope
into account, we still think that 7,000 people is a lot for that cross-cultural dialogue and confrontation has led
a feminist event, and that, considering the odds, it was to a better understanding of our similarities and differ-
quite acceptable. ences and that this will contribute to a feminism
When evaluating the event, we must remember whose internationalism begins with a very real respect
the odds we were up against when we began to or- for those differences.
ganise it. In April 1987, we had nothing: no legal
status, no infrastructure, no support, no money, no
office. Our first six months were spent trying to get
that support: by November we had enough support to
open an office and by January 1988 to go on salary. We
fought continuously against time that was running
out. While we had standards and ideals we wanted to
reach, lack of time and of course lack of money pre- In terms of international participation, we are
vented us from attaining them. This hurt networking generally satisfied. However, some areas of the world
and publicity and meant that we could not always were less well represented than others, and we did not
reach the right person until it was too late. attain the high level of participation from Franco-
The most serious error in our .opinion, and there phone countries that we had hoped for. There were no
were many to choose from, was the fact that women women from the Middle East, few from South East
from all cultural communities were not involved by Asia, few Jewish feminists speaking as Jewish femi-
taking leadership roles from the beginning. This situa- nists, and only one author from Eastern Europe. A
tion resulted in a boycott of the event by the Congress total of fifty-five countries were represented, and the
of Black Women of Concordia which hindered the conference was not dominated by one area or region
participation of some women of colour. In turn, this of the world (somewhat of a feat, considering that it
provoked a political crisis around the Fair, causing was held in North America).
bitterness, division and anger. While the boycott ulti- The Feminist Book Fair has always been a fragile
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:56 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
marriage of commerce and politics. This Fair, perhaps LLES
more than the previous two, brought those contradic-
tions clearly into focus. While some publishers and
some authors are clearly unsatisfied, others have writ-
and what a worthwhile experience it was. We all Sidewalk Revolution Press is seeking submis-
cherish special memories, whether of the Native read- sions for an anthology of erotic lesbian poetry. No
ing on Saturday afternoon, the Friday evening panel s/m. Five poems maximum, typed and double-
on power, the one on "memories of age", one of the spaced, with SASE. No previously published work.
lesbian panels, or one of the many meetings that took Payment in contributor’s copies. Deadline: June 1,
place in the residences, a private home, or in the 1989. Send to Sidewalk Revolution Press, PO Box 9062,
ambiance of a Montreal bar. Pittsburgh PA 15224.
Economically, we have done fairly well. We do
not have a deficit, but nor do we have a surplus to
hand over to the organizers of the Fourth Fair as we
had hoped. We have written up a detailed set of rec-
ommendations, based on the mistakes that we made
and that we feel should not be repeated. These recom-
mendations include everything from fund-raising to
ways to eliminate racism in the organizational stages Frontiers: A Journal of Women Studies welcomes
to increasing accessibility for a'l women. Kali for submissions to its second special issue on Las Chicanas.
Women in India has decided not to hold the Fair, and They are seeking articles, reviews, personal essays,
s Bo a r ct eh le o n aw , o m Spe an i n f r wo im ll bth e e t af ke im ngin i ost n p tu hb el i s th ae skr . L WaS ea l w in ish tsh ho e r t w of ri lc dt .i o n T, h e p o te ht er my e a n fd or p th ho et o g 1r 9a 9p 0h y is s ufr e o m w i lla r o bu end
them the best of luck, and we hope that this biennial Chicanas in an International Context/Chicanas en un
event will continue to be an important means for contexto internacional. Deadline: Cinco de Mayo..
improving the international distribution of women’s Guest editors are Cordelia Candelaria and MaryRo-
books, for financially consolidating the business of mero. Frontiers, Women Studies Program CB 246, Uni-
tf ue rm ei sn i as nt d p u bb ol ri dsh erin s g f oa rn d a lf l o r w o n me et nw o ir nk vin olg v e dac r wos is t h c u tl h- e versit y W oo mf e nC ’o s lo Sr ta ud do i, e sB o Iu nl td ee rr n a tC iO on a8 l0 3 F0 o9 r. um seeks con-
written word. tributions from people, individually or collectively,
The contact address for the Fourth International from different countries and different backgrounds,
Feminist Book Fair is LaSal, edicions de les dones, who are engaged in feminist research inside or outside
Valencia 226, 08007 Barcelona, Spain. The phone num- formal educational institutions. They welcome a
ber is (93) 323 1798. variety of approaches and resources through the
We would like to thank you for joining us in the tw oh o al ce t i or nan -og re i e nof te dd i s rc ei sp el ai rn ce hs. aT sh e wy e l ls e e ak s tp ha op se er s w g he ia cr hed
event and helping make it the exciting celebration
that, in spite of its shortcomings, it turned out to be. address theoretical-methodological issues, and en-
Diana Bronson courage historical reassessments of the work of our
Ariane Brunet fore0sisters2. Cont1act Jo4ni Sea4ger (F.BN ’s In ternOational
Suzanne Girard Books columnist), 167 Willow Avenue, Somerville MA
0 Please 8 Note o8ur new6 addre.ss: 4037, St. OAndre,
Montreal, Quebec, H2L 3W2, Canada. Tel: 514-525-
23 January 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:56 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
By The Toronto Women’s Bookstore Collective from the bookstore, torched the building and the store
TORONTO: The Toronto Women’s Bookstore cele- was burned out. The community response was over-
brated their newly renovated space (designed by whelming. While the Bookstore had a fire sale and
Paula Bowley and Ann Sinclair), their new extended operated out of a cramped space above the Poor Alex
hours, and fifteen years of offering books and music Theatre, benefits and fund-raisers where held, and
of special interest to women with a wine and cheese women and men showed their strong commitment to
party on December 6. The celebration featured maintain the store as a valued part of the community.
authors Margaret Atwood and Marlene Nourbese Over $30,000 was raised to recover losses and reopen
Philip, recording artists Arlene Mantle and Delvina in the present location, 73 Harbord $t.
Bernard of Four the Moment, and music by Latin Amer- Although the Toronto Women’s Bookstore has
ican ensemble Tinku. not been without its problems, both financial and
Opening in the spring of 1973, the Bookstore was organizational, we are justly proud of what has been
part of The Women’s Place, a project that was involved accomplished. Carrying 9,000 titles (many of which
in initiating a number of other important women’s are unobtainable elsewhere) and 50 periodicals, the
services in Toronto including Interval House Shelter Bookstore offers publications covering a wide section
for Battered Women, Times Change Women’s Em- of subject matter including women of colour, violence
ployment Service and the Women’s Counselling Re- against women and children, health and psychology,
ferral and Education Centre. Although initially lesbians, and fiction. In addition, the Bookstore sells
carrying only a few titles, it was the first store in records and tapes by women artists, cards, buttons,
Toronto to offer books on women’s theory and the novelties, and is the "no charge" ticket outlet for most
newly emerging second wave of feminism. of the non-sexist special events in the city. A non-profit
By the following year, business was brisk enough organization, it has a nine woman board of directors
for the collectively operated, non-profit store to move and is operated by a staff collective of four and several
out on its own, and the present name was chosen. occasional workers.
After sojourns on Dupont St. and in the Kensington At the close of its 15th year of operation, the
Market area, the Bookstore moved to 85 Harbord Toronto Women’s Bookstore continues to maintain its
Street. In July of 1982 an arsonist, targeting the free role as an important resource for feminists and other
standing abortion clinic that had moved in upstairs progressive people in and around Toronto. O
24
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:56 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
BSAN
f SENSIA
By Donna Murray Ken noted the top sellers for the store, in feminist
What’s the latest in Canadian content? To the titles, during the holiday season: non-fiction - The
question "How were holiday sales?", a telephone sur- Courage To Heal, by Ellen Bass and Laura Davis and
vey of several bookstores across the country resulted Dance of Anger by Harriet Goldhor-Lerner; fiction -
in a wide variety of "pretty good" and "better than last Cat's Eye, by Margaret Atwood (they sold five in
year" along with "not as well as we had hoped". Not hardcover which, for Red Herring, represents a lot) -
all Canadian stores were contacted, but those that and Stubby Amberchuck and the Holy Grail by
were generally were pleased to hear from FBN. I de- Anne Cameron; other items - one hundred Every-
cided to start on the east coast and move westward. woman’s Almanac and the Herstory almanac. "We
Following is a synopsis of the omments booksellers could have sold more, if we had had them".
offered in impromptu, brief interviews. In local items, Red Herring sold lots of We’re Still
For those stores I did not, or was unable to contact Standing, from the Black, a capella, Nova Scotia group
on this round, I will aim to get the news from you for Four The Moment: A successful book launching in
the next issue. Are any of us, will any of us, feel the December sold over fifty copies of No Place Like
effects of Free Trade? Has it effected net costs, ship- Home: Diaries and Letters of Nova Scotia Women
ping details, retail price increases/decreases? I'll 1771 - 1938, (from Formac) authored by Nova Scotia
check it out with you soon. But meanwhile, here’s the writers Margaret Conrad, Toni Laidlaw and Donna
scoop from across Canada. Smyth.
Red Herring, run by Ken along with Joan Percel,
Red Herring Co-op Books - Halifax, NS. Listed Operations Manager, trains an enormous group of
among Other Bookstores of Interest on the FBN List volunteers to keep it going. Ken says that including a
of Women’s Bookstores, Red Herring serves as the core group of about 100 co-op members, the store
only alternative bookstore on the mainland in the utilized two-hundred and fifty volunteers last year
Atlantic provinces (I was unable to reach anyone at and that, on average, a volunteer does only about
Idle Hands, on Prince Edward Island. It too comes three shifts per year. They offer about seven hours of
under the same ‘Other’ category). Ken Burke, the training and then, "It’s GO!" The obvious component
co-ordinator of book buying for Red Herring said that here is that there is a tremendous amount of training
sales in what the store currently calls its feminist lit- involved on an ongoing basis. So much for those of us
erature section, were "very good." Ken says titles in who work in groups of two dozen!
this section now contribute to 20% of the store's over-
all stock. Half of all of the literature stocked in the Librarie l'Essentielle - Montreal, PQ. Odette De-
many categories -—- including Central and Latin Amer- sormeaux says that the year-and-a-half old store did
ica, Media/Culture, Health, Spirituality, Parenting, better than last year, but that it is difficult to say if
Therapy, Alternative Politics, Economics Ecology, increases were due to holiday sales or not. "We made
Peace -- is women’s literature. more money than last year, but we have been doing
January 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:56 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
that constantly throughout the year." She noted that well and affirmations books, too. Local women’s hand
December sales, compared to those of November were painted t-shirts, small carved boxes and jewelry were
"almost exactly the same," and that "proportionally, among the popular gift items.
we have more clients." She reports that, "Figures are January represents a further increase in sales with
up every month." This good news is in light of the the Ottawa Women’s Bookstore supplying all books
trend for seasonal sales in the city to be "generally for several university courses, from first year to
down" this year "in the book business and other retail graduate courses. Says Peggy, "Some courses require
sales". Overall, Odette notes, "We did much better this up to ten titles. We have to go after the business, but it
November over last year." This reflects the fact that the brings in a lot of new people," adding that "Once
store is getting better known in Montreal as the bilin- customers come in they keep coming back. Magical
gual outlet for feminist titles. isn't it!"
Tops in sales for the holiday season included Continuing renovations, gearing up for Spring
calendars and almanacs, with the only French al- conferences and a book launching of Susan Crean’s In
manac available, Remue-Menage, from the Feminist the Name of the Fathers (Amanita Enterprises), on the
Press, as the "absolute best seller." In English, Cat’s subject of child custody in Canada, are currently in
Eye [the New Margaret Atwood novel, not yet availa- the works for the store.
ble in the States] did really well, Dolores Klaich’s
Heavy Gilt went well and in the lesbian section, More The Toronto Women’s Bookstore - Recent reno-
Dykes to Watch Out For by Alison Bechdel and Un- vations, Which ran into the inevitable overtime, led
broken Ties by Carol Becker were among the top this store into the holiday season. Completing the
sellers. Odette mentions that small meditation books work just at the beginning of December offered the
from the spirituality section went well with titles from store the opportunity to coincide an Opening, along
Barbara Walker and Lynne Andrews being popular. with their 15th Anniversary in an after-hours celebra-
She notes as an aside, that Yoga For Cats has always tion. Mona Oikawa, a newcomer to the Bookstore
been a book to move well! staff, said it was a definite success with the attendance
January does not offer any reprieve from the of "Lots of supporters from the community." The
holiday rush as the Women’s Studies courses at Con- longer than expected renovations affected sales but
cordia and McGill resume. Odette notes that "Last figures weren't available at the time of the interview.
year we made more in January than in December due We'll catch up on the Toronto store soon.
to teachers’ orders." These courses bring in large retail
sales as well as acting as a source for new customers. Women’s Bookstop - Hamilton. Renee Albrecht
reports that good holiday sales "Paid our bills!" - a
The Ottawa Women’s Bookstore - Peggy Harris feminist bookseller’s dream come true... Total figures
reports that, "Sales were up. We were busy but it for the season hadn't been tallied but Renee was aware
wasn’t insane." of a ten per-cent increase over last year in sales re-
They had arranged to stay open every night corded before the beginning of December. Best sellers
before Christmas until 9:00 pm and Peggy says, "That are reported as Cat's Eye and Toni Morrison’s
was a good decision." It meant that the five staff mem- Beloved.
bers, especially part-timers, booked in extra time but January, for the Hamilton store, means inventory
it offered access to shoppers on their way home from and the beginnings of plans for the coming year. "We
work downtown. have made a goal to save for the next Bookfair." In
Tops for the season: Peggy relates that there were Montreal, Renee shared time off and conference atten-
not really any ‘best sellers’, but that there was a good dance with her co-worker Candace, and the two
increase in fiction sales "...which means an upswing women are dedicated to both being in Barcelona at the
in terms of presents" and that people are buying more Bookfair - at the same time!
books to give as gifts. Calendars and almanacs went This Fall they doubled the size of the store result-
January 1989 26 Volume 11 Number 5
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:56 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
ing in an increase in sales. Says Renee, "People want
to browse. It’s really exciting. Everything is going
really well." One.of Renee’s main interests is in build-
ing up the international aspect of the bookstore. She is
interested in contacting Latin American publishers
and hopes anyone with pertinent information will
contact her. Renee is heading out to the Bookseller’s
Convention in Washington, DC in May where she
will be looking to re-establish connections made at the
Montreal Bookfair.
Northern Woman’s Bookstore - Thunder Bay.
"Things went reasonably well," reports Margaret Phil-
lips, from the north. She reflects, and adds, "We actu-
ally did very well, but sales included some big ‘group
orders’ from Transition House and the Women’s
Directorate. On the whole, it was an improvement
over last year."
The Bass/Davis The Courage to Heal is reported
by Margaret as "by far the best seller." A title "specific
to us" from Pemmican Publications was Honour the
Sun by local northern author, Ruby Slipper Jack,
which did very well.
Still open three days a week, Northern Woman’s
hB oo uok rss ,t o r be u t h a ds e t ap il la sn s h ai vn e p nr oo tg r be es es n t o c o min pc lr ee ta es de ao np den we Everywoman’s Almanac 1989 - Women’s Press/Canada
have to wait until next issue to hear the final good and prints Were popular as well.
news. Anne notes, during that period, a decrease of the
books that are constantly good sellers throughout the
Bold Print - Winnipeg. Anne Kent réports sales rest of the year - psych, theory, abuse and addiction
have been "very good - up from last year," noting, recovery.
"We’re still growing!" Anne elaborates on a plan the January usually means a slower period for Bold
Winnipeg store had as a "sort of gesture to the com- Print, but the store holds its birthday party in January,
munity, and for last-minute shoppers." coinciding with a sale on selected items and offering
"We did something different. We had a Midnight live entertainment. This year they’re pairing the event
Madness sale on the 22nd of December. We stayed with workshops by Sandra Butler.
open until twelve. We're usually open until 8:00 pm.
We had 10% off music; 30% off selected books; and we The Book Womb - Winnipeg. When contacted
served spiced apple cider and cookies." Anne con- about the status of the unique bookmobile service in
tinues, "It pretty much doubled our sales for the day. the truly frozen north -- "There’s a blizzard happening
It was very busy and more social." and the wind chill factor is about 50 below." —- Jahnet
Highlights in sales for the season included Tracks Hewsick quipped, "You want to know if there have
by Louise Erdrich; Mundane’s World by Judy Grahn; been any holiday sales!" Jahnet reports that the Book
and More Dykes to Watch Out For. Sidelines in- Wombis "more or less in hibernation - not totally -and
cluded a lot of calendars and almanacs and "lots of doing a book-table next week." Since last report Jahnet
music this year." Locally produced jewelry, pottery has been working full-time at her part-time-not-book-
27 January 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:56 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
selling job (sound familiar?) and has been busier than more Herstory."
she would like to be. Although time is limited for Frances Dearman cites that in general areas bio-
Jahnet to spend selling books, she is looking to have a graphy, travel and Canadian fiction went well. "We
sale in the near future to clear stock. sold the last copy of Everywoman’s Almanac on
Christmas eve -- versus forty left over last year."
Common Woman Books - Edmonton. I contacted Frances notes that from the lesbian section "specific
Andrea Harbour on a Sunday morning at the book- spicy novels" were big sellers -- Rubyfruit Jungle and
store. It was minutes before a reading was to take place High Hearts from Rita Mae Brown, and in mysteries
featuring Diana Chown, a local author reading from Barbara Wilson's Sisters of the Road sold well.
the rediscovered journal of her great-great aunt Alice After-Christmas activity brought in customers
A. Chown: The Stairway, which depicts life on the who treated themselves to some of the "more expen-
prairies in the early days. Diana has prepared an sive" books: Woolf's biography of Emily Dickinson
introduction to the work and has published the book. and Josephine Baker’s autobiography (written with
There were a lot of women’s voices in the background. Joe Bouillon) sold, along with Beryl Markham’s
Andrea told me it was snowing and it was "minus Straight on Til Morning.
twenty-eight". Brigitte adds that since submitting a series of
But obviously the weather in Edmonton doesn’t book reviews to a local magazine aimed at women in
deter getting the word out. This reading is one in a the community, sales have increased for those titles
series of readings being held at Common Woman specifically mentioned in the reviews. As she says, "It
Books: Nicole Brossard spent her birthday - Novem- is certainly worthwhile."
ber 27th - at the store reading from her latest work to January plans for Everywomans include stocking
be translated into English, Aerial Letters; and Daphne up for and selling to students of Women’s Studies
Marlatt and Betsy Warland did a recent reading from courses at UVIC; readying for the 14th Birthday cele-
their collaborative work Double Negative. bration; and arranging readings from west coast
Andrea notes that sales for the season were "dis- authors Helen Potrebenko and Dorothy Livesay.
appointing -- not as good as last year", and reports that By the way, Everywomans, at their November
calendar sales started and ended early. They received retreat, decided to move towards computerizing --
goods in August - and that it seemed that last-minute preliminary inquiries into software and appropriate
shopping was lower. hardware are being made. Estimated time of im-
Andrea is still interested in getting together with plementation...that information is not yet available. In
women from other Canadian bookstores and meeting keeping with the collective process at the store the
somewhere in the middle of the country. Can she get approach will be long and comprehensive -- some-
some feedback on that? times a frustrating experience for some of the collec-
tive members, but one which ensures that all members
A quick jump to the west coast brings us to Every- know what is taking place and ensures that each mem-
womans Books - Victoria. Brigitte Sutherland reports ber has played an integral part in seeing and under-
that in total Everywomans "did a bit better than last standing the plans as they come to fruition.
December," and notices that there were a good num-
ber of shoppers who hadn't been into the store before. Whew! For a limited number of stores across the
Brigitte notes that many people commented on the country there is sure a lot to talk about. For those stores
store's increase in stock but that there is always a not yet contacted I hope to catch up on latest news,
problem for orderers in "trying to anticipate the hot ideas and information for your part of the country, in
sellers". the near future. Of course, you can always drop me a
"We ran out of Barbara Walker's Women’s Ency- line, or call to give me the latest! This is it for Canadian
clopedia of Myths and Secrets and did well in calen- Content until next time - Donna Murray, The Cottage,
dar date-books and almanacs. We could have sold 1175 Hampshire Rd., Victoria BC, Canada V8S 4T1.0
January 1989 28
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:56 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
2) N
9 c00 9 9
Susanna J. Sturgis writes, "Glad you liked that Women’s History Month Poster (D13490) AARP Ful-
letter in PW. They cut my favorite part, which was a fillment, 1909 K. Street NW, Washington DC 20049.
suggestion for an anti-chain store ad, hatched while I
was still in D.C. At the time Crown Books was putting Computerized Love Affairs: The Regulator Book-
out full-page ads of Robert Haft holding up a best- shop in Durham has their inventory up and running
seller and saying ‘If you paid full price, you didn’t get on Wordstock and sent a note saying that they love it.
it at Crown Books.’ My idea was to get a whole gang If you're contemplating the possibility, you might call
of people together, each brandishing their favorite John Valentine there for a rave review. New Words has
non-best-seller, ideally published by an independent been up on Wordstock for over a year now and still
press, all saying ‘If you have this book, you didn’t buy love it madly. Call them for the long-term report.
it at Crown Books.’ With a list at the bottom of all the Meanwhile, for those of you following the continuing
participating feminist and other independent stores." saga of Full Circle's attempts to get a revised version
of BookLog to do point-of-purchase, et al., to function
at the level of their expectations...I'll spare you the
%2. A3 details but they still aren't up and running and don’t
have a projected date. Stores that are happily running
BookLog without point of purchase include A Room
March is National Women’s History Month: The of One's Own, ClaireLight and Women & Children
Women’s Initiative project of The American Associa- First.
tion of Retired Persons is offering a free poster cele-
brating National Women’s History Month that would And Then There Are the Sales Affairs or A Best-
make a fine backdrop for a window display. The seller in Any Other Location... Tina, at A Room of
theme is "Heritage of Strength and Vision" and is One's Own reports recommending Fried Green To-
portrayed on the AARP poster by ten pairs of women, matoes at the Whistle Stop Cafe as an excellent gift
one pioneer and her contemporary counterpart, who book for "Aunts, mothers, lovers, southerners, friends,
represent singular achievement in fields from advo- co-workers and just about anyone else"—and ARO?
cacy and the arts to literature, sports, science, and sold 100+ copies in December, despite the book’s un-
women’s rights. Women portrayed include Dolores availability for ten of the prime selling days. Mean-
Huerta, Margaret Chase Smith, Patsy Mink, "Babe" while the literary bookstore in a similar community
Didrikson Zaharias, Billie Jean King, Willa Cather, reported selling five copies.
Toni Morrison, Dr. Alice Hamilton, Dr. Chien-Shiung
Wu, Jane Addams and Annie Dodge Waueka and Favorite Odd Phone Call of December: Another
more. The short biographical notes make the poster an store reports that their local listener sponsored radio
interesting read in and of itself. Write to National station phoned them up saying that they'd heard the
January 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:56 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
bookstore had Zora Neale Hurston and could a staffer from Trash and Marita Golden (A Woman's Place) read
put them in touch??? Sure! Any medium could do from her forthcoming novel Long Distance Life. It’s
it—if Zora was willing. enough to make a woman want to move to DC! All
readings were on Sunday afternoons with a $2.00
More on the Censorship Front: Herotica was door.
seized by New Zealand Customs. Reports Down
There Press of their distributor Benton Ross, "Guess The "I Don't Believe It!", Dept: One of my
we'll have to go before the Indecent Publications favorite pieces of mail this fall promoted an Astral
Board again!" More news as it develops. Projection Kit—Includes everything you need to leave
your body: book, meditation tape, a quartz crystal
O00 7 already charged for astral projection, a meditation
book card and an instruction book to guide your flight.
Only $19.95. Among the author’s apparent qualifica-
Promotion and Distribution: Naiad’s first mail- tions are being listed in Who's Who of American Women,
ing advising their direct mail customers of the book- in Who's Who in the World and in The International
stores in their area that stock 75% or more of Naiad’s
titles should be in the mail as you read this. Several aW nyri t e lir m's i t W s h to o' s n W ewh -o a. g e ( A sm al e sI - e rh yea ?ring owls?) Are there
times over the last year Naiad asked stores that
wanted to be included in this project to contact them. Odd-Sight-Em'’s: The Dayton Hudson Founda-
Like a lot of good ideas there was a bit more time tion (B. Dalton Booksellers, Dayton Hudson depart-
between the inception of the idea and its implementa- ment stores and Target Stores) recently helped to fund
tion than was originally planned. The idea of dividing Daily Rhythms: Three Women Poets, issue #15 of
their mailing list into geographic areas and sending Sing Heavenly Muse!. Do you suppose this means that
the names of the stores nearest the customers was one B. Dalton will stock the book?
of those flash brainstorms. Implementing, however,
was contingent on purchasing both a new computer And More Odd-Sight-Em'’s: There’s a letter circu-
and new mailing list management software and get- lating in my community criticizing the (woman) edi-
ting the data transferred and the system up and run- tor of a local gay paper. No—criticism is nothing odd
ning. FBN and Naiad would both like to hear from in the feminist community—but this one bemoans the
stores how effective this program turns out to be; if it fact that the paper gets no government funding be-
succeeds in bringing new customers into the stores cause there's no way that they can call the govern-
and successfully informs mail order customers of the ment in to do a public inquiry.... Did I just step out on
wonderland of books waiting for them in feminist a time warp or something? Did I just hear a group of
bookstores in their own states. If your store was left feminist and gay activists calling for government in-
off the Naiad list and you do carry 75% of their titles, tervention in gay publishing? Thinking this is going to
you can be included in the next mailing by writing or help something?
calling Barbara Grier at Naiad Press, PO Box 10543,
Tallahassee FL 32302. 904-539-9322. Good News: Vicki McConnell’s Double
Daughter was nominated for Best Books for Young
Lammas Bookstore did what looked like a Adults list. Cleis Press’ Louise Rafkin was featured on
wonderful reading series this fall: Native American a segment of Geraldo on relationships between lesbi-
poet Elizabeth Woody read from her new book Hand ans and their mothers.
Into Stone; poet, playwright, and filmmaker Michelle
Parkerson read from Waiting Rooms; Louise Rafkin Ideas: A novel approach to marketing: Clairelight
read from her own work; Hattie Gosset read from sponsored a "Penny-A-Page" sale the week after
Sister No Blues, Betty Steinshouer performed in a one Chtrisotm as omn remoainvderes, et c.,o thuat t th.ey rea-llyC wSantOed
woman show on Willa Cather; Dorothy Allison read
January 1989 30 Volume 11 Number 5
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:56 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
It’s going to be a good year for Florida bookstores:
Sue White is opening a women’s bookstore for the Ft.
Lauderdale/South Florida community. It will be
called First Page and will initially open February 1 in
a side room of JJ's Other Side, the local women’s bar.
In mid-April the storefront next door will become
NEW BOOKSTORES available and First Page will open in a space of her
Aquarius Books is the new feminist bookstore in own with direct street access, etc. Send information to
Bloomington, Indiana. After several years of running First Page, c/o JJ's Other Side, 2283 Wilson Dr., Ft.
two stores in cities a half-day’s drive apart, Dreams Lauderdale FL 33305.
and Swords owner Harriet Clare concluded that the
ABA is right, that it’s at least three times as harder to
run two stores as one and decided to put all of her
energy into the Indianapolis "home" store. Hopefully
she'll be writing about that for a future issue of FBN.
Meanwhile the manager of the old store, Nicki Nicklas AQUARÍUSs
and a crew of six Bloomington women have taken
over the storefront and are now running Aquarius BOOKS
Books (books for a feminist future.) Send them cata-
logs and congratulations on their new store at 116 FOR a Feminist future
North Grant St., Bloomington IN 47401. Their new
phone number is 812-336-0988.
Patty Callaghan, the manager at Crazy Ladies
Bookstore in Cincinnati (see elsewhere in this issue for Meanwhile in Aurora Illinois, a community
news about the building Crazy Ladies is buying), is about 50 miles from Chicago, Diane Marcheschi is
moving to St. Petersburg, Florida to open a feminist opening a bookstore next to her non-alcoholic night-
bookstore there. Patty's new store will be called club for teenagers. ("It’s a perfect set-up," she says.
Brigit’s Books. She plans to open shortly after ABA, "The storefront next door is coming up for rent, so
figuring that will give her time to hire and train a new we'll have that for the store and we'll have the club for
manager and order for the new store. We’ll have the book parties....") Send Diane information at Club Al-
address by next issue. If you know anyone who has ternative, 924 N. Lake St., Aurora IL 60506.
some business and is ready to move to Cincinnati to SanSu Women’s Bookstore began last year as a
manage a collective feminist bookstore, tell her to call women’s mail order bookstore and opened as a store
Patti at Crazy Ladies: 513-541-4198 or write CL, 4041 about five months ago. SanSu stocks a wide variety of
Hamilton, Cincinnati OH 45223. subjects and issues of interest to women and also a
31 January 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:56 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
wide selection of cooking, traveling, spirituality, be about one third feminist, one third lesbian, and one
metaphysical and children’s books as well as cards, third gay men’s books. These stores reflect the re-
music and other gift items. Send information about newed and growing bond between the lesbian and
running a women’s bookstore and catalogs to owner gay male communities, but don’t seem to reflect any
Suzanne Trupp, SanSu, 433 E. Main Suite 12, Ventura falling of sales of feminist books.
CA 93001. Phone is 805-652-0111. So! On to the Lavender stores:
Carol Lampson is opening a feminist bookstore in Cindy M. Graeff is opening Lavender Hearts
Hartford, Connecticut. Please send her catalogs and Books and Tapes which will stock feminist and gay
information at her temporary address 88 Allendale titles. Send information to her at PO Box 4129, Mt.
Rd., Hartford CN 06106. Penn PA 19606. We'll run the store address as soon as
Mary Stockton is opening Crone’s Harvest, a we get it.
feminist bookstore in Jamaica Plain, Massachusetts. Lavender Connection is open at 2909 Liberty Bell
Send her information at Box 2728, 02130. Lane in Reynoldsburg, Ohio 43068, stocking gay and
lesbian books. Send information to Dan Cormany.
Two's Company, a book, card and gift shop stock-
ing feminist and gay literature, is open in Tulsa, Ok-
Svi lahoma. Send information to Brandy and Tari Powers,
2921 S. Harvard, Tulsa OK 74114.
In Michigan, Kris Sawkin and Carol (?) are open-
Interesting how store names go in cycles. Early on ing a women’s bookstore in Mt. Clemens! Send them
there were numerous "A Woman's Place" bookstore, information at 103 Mark Dr., 48043.
followed by at least three "A Room of One's Own’s"
(and A Mind of Her Own).... Various kinds of Sisters Does anyone know or have the address of the
seem to be very current (Two Sisters, Southern Sisters, new feminist bookstore in Buenos Aires? The
Southern Wild Sisters and My Sister’s Words) and grapevine is a wondrous and splendid thing but it
various Lavenders are the most recent trend, marking sometimes loses essential details—like addresses. If
with color a wave of gay and lifestyle-oriented book- you have`it, please send it and we'll run it here... Also:
stores being opened by lesbians and by lesbians and Does anyone know if Excephion’elle Books in New
gay men in partnership to serve gay and lesbian com- Brunswick is still around? We're getting mail returned
munities, sometimes including the feminist commu- from them and can’t find them by phone...
nity and sometimes not. Until the last couple of years
it was pretty predictable that women, straight or gay, SUCCESS STORIES
opened feminist bookstores that served feminist and A note from Pokey Anderson and Annise Parker,
lesbian communities, sometimes including sections co-owners of Inklings, "We did it! We opened for bus-
for gay men, and oftentimes not. Gay men opened iness on December 3 (only 2 1/2 months behind
stores serving gay (men’s) and, increasingly over the schedule)! A jumbo thank you to FBN and all the femi-
years, the lesbian communities. The last year or so has nist booksellers and suppliers around the country
seen an increasing number of women starting book- who have so generously shared their experience and
stores to serve the lesbian and gay communities (and advice. Our new digs: Inklings—An Alternative Book-
sometimes feminist) and several lesbian/gay male shop, 1846 Richmond Avenue, Houston TX 77098.
partnerships opening to serve lesbian / gay communi- 713-521-3369. Houston has had places to buy gay or
ties, sometimes including (non-lesbian) feminist sec- lesbian books off and on over the years, but it’s been
tions and sometimes not.... Many of the stores budget years since we've had a feminist bookstore. Inklings
to create stock that is 50% women’s books and 50% will specialize in all three: feminist, lesbian, and gay
men’s titles. Women’s may include feminist titles and male books. Come visit!" (They were previously re-
lesbian titles or may not. Other stores are setting up to ceiving mail at 2212 Portsmouth, 77098.)
January 1989 32
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:56 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
1988 was a bumper-year for new feminist book- BAD NEWS
stores. As we've been tallying the results of the Spinsters Books and Webbery in Lawrence,
economics questionnaire, we kept a list of the stores Kansas (66044) is closing due to "burnout and
that had opened in 1988. They include Mystic Moon exhaustion."
(New Orleans), Book Connections (Austin), Inklings
(Houston), Lunaria (Northampton), EOS Women’s PERIODICALS
Books (Fort Lauderdale), Two Sisters (Palo Alto), I think it’s hard for feminist bookstores to carry
Southern Sisters (Durham), Together As One enough periodicals. Periodicals have the news and
(Colorado Springs), SanSu (Ventura, CA) and Visions information long before it’s in book form, keep both
and Voices (Pawtucket, RI) as well as a number of gay booksellers and our customers in touch with various
and/or lesbian and gay stores like People Like Us in parts of our communities, keep customers coming
Chicago... It’s been quite a year! back on a regular basis to pick up new issues, and
encourage book sales by reviewing books. The only (?)
Feminist, lesbian and gay books and periodicals Videos problem is that stocking magazines can be both labor
intensive and an accounting headache, when each
INKLINGS periodical has to be ordered (and returned and paid)
An Alternative Bookshop from each individual publisher... Inland is making it
easier by stocking a range of periodicals including
OPENING Belles Lettres, Black/Out, Calyx, Common Lives/Lesbian
Lives, Conditions, European Gay Review, Gossip, Heresies,
Saturday, December 3 Ikon, Other Countries, Outlook, Sinister Wisdom, So-
PN m+4>3 mrm j Wou or mne er n, ' s T Rri ev vi ia e, w W oo fm a Bn o o kof s aP no dw e mr, o rW e.o m Ife ,n b A y r t si os mts e N fe aw ils u, re
1846 Richmond of the universe, you aren't on Inland’s mailing list and
(2 bk s 5 E 2a 1st - 3o 3f 6 S 9heperd) gh aa zv ie nn e' st , r ce ac lle i v te hd e m t h e ai tr 8D 0e 0c -e 2m 43b -e 0r 1 3 81 9 8 a8 n d c a at sa klo g f o o rf o m nea .- Or
write PO Box 261, East Haven CT 06512.
NEW OWNERS BOOKS FIND DISTRIBUTORS
Betty Shoemaker is the new owner of Choices in Writers and Readers Books are no longer availa-
Santa Barbara, California (906 Garden Street, 93101). ble though Camden, but many of their titles are at
She writes that she bought the store in August at the Inland. Poseuses, the collection of contemporary pho-
age of seventy. tographs, by Gon Buurman featured in last issue's Art
Books column, is now available through Bookpeople
MOVED as well as Inland. Inland has also picked up Ho-
Crazy Ladies Bookstore has bought a building mophobia: A Weapon of Sexism and The Source-
kitty-corner from their current location. Their new book on Lesbian and Gay Health (by the Lesbian and
address (effective Feb. 1, 1989) is 4041 Hamilton, Cin- Gay Health Foundation, 400+ pages, $20 pb), and
cinnati OH 45223. (Old address was 4112 Hamilton. Continued on Page 80
33 January 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:56 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
QVE
By Anne Miller patriarchy, to be my own boss and do my own thing
There is something unique about Nancy Kinsey’s while providing a service for womyn. I had wanted
bookstore—it moves! Instead of looking in a storefront to do this for a long time. I have a love of books and
window to find her shop, Nancy’s customers eagerly womyn, not necessarily in that order.
await the arrival of her turquoise VW van filled with o How long have you been in business?
"books and other wonderful things for people who NK: A little over a year.
love themselves, each other, and the planet." Shop- o Are you upwardly mobile as well?
ping is a pleasure for Nancy’s clientele as she drives NK: Absolutely not, that is not my intent. I would like
right to their front door. Mail order isn’t the only way to be a total war tax resister. I only want to have
to shop without leaving home! enough money for my needs and not an overabun-
dance that just pays into the war machine.
° How's business, Nancy? o What kinds of books do you specialize in carrying?
NK: Good, although womyn in this area seem to like NK: Basically feminist and peace activist. I also carry
light reading such as novels rather than books on calendars, journals, T-shirts, buttons, and used
feminist theory that present many different view- books. I travel to events all over Central Florida as
ap ro ai tn it ss t. wI o r mea yl nly , ae nn djo y b o s oh ka sr i n byg b wo oo mks y n b y o f r a cd oi lc oa rl, wse itp h- dw ie fl fl e ra es n td o t i tm lea si .l-orders. I currently stock over 120
my sisters. My bestseller is Lesbian Passion by Joanne
Loulan. Books on women’s spirituality, self-help and On The Move can be contacted by calling 813-823-
h poe pal ut lh a r .i s s I u e rs e, a l lb yo t h en jp oh yy s ti ac la kl i na gn d t om wen ot mal e, n a r ae b o ual ts o the 3P643e otr e wrritsinbg u tor Ogn Th eF MLov e, 3PO3 B7ox3 2198.5, StO.
books. Business-
wise I don't make
any money but I
want to perform a
service and share
with others the in-
credible variety of
books by, for and
about womyn. The
energy I receive
from providing this
service gives me the
energy I need to con-
tinue.
o What gave you the
idea of having a
portable bookstore?
NK: I wanted to
work outside the
Volume 11 Number 5 34 January 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:56 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
in Feminist
Bookstores
By Betsy Nuse children’s books and collections of short stories
Let me begin with the exciting books by Black directed to "women all over the world, especially fem-
women writers I saw for the first time at the Feminist inists." An interesting book of poetry I bought from
Book Fair in Montreal! The second part of the column her in Montreal was Cassava Song and Rice Song
begins the "bestsellers list" compiled from this (Tana Press, no ISBN, price under US$10), a witty
Spring’s poetry questionnaire. "praise song" tribute to Nigeria’s native staple crop,
cassava, coupled with direct criticism of illegal trad-
ing in imported rice, which makes Nigeria even more
dangerously dependent on foreign exchange. I think
a selection of Ms. Nwapa’s books would make an
important addition to any feminist book store where
readers interested in African culture would appreciate
authentic material. Write to her directly at Tana Press,
2A Menkiti Lane, Ogui, Enugu Nigeria — and help a
Nigerian feminist and Africa’s balance of foreign ex-
change!
The University of the West Indies Press had on
display in Montreal a good selection of books by
Caribbean women poets. The Penguin Book of
Caribbean Verse in English, ed. Paula Burnett (ISBN
From a new Black Women’s press in the U.K. 0-14-058511-7, US$8.95) was my first introduction to
called Black Woman Talk comes their first publication, the number and range of these exciting authors, but
an anthology Black Women Talk Poetry (ISBN 1- U.W.I. had as well From Our Yard: Jamaican Poetry
870400-00-3, C$9.95, Sheba, dist. by Bookpeople and Since Independence, ed. Pamela Mordecai (Institute
Inland). It includes the work of a range of young of Jamaica Publications, ISBN 976-8017-04-X, C$8.00).
Women of Colour living in the U.K. organized into 11 of the 28 poets in this anthology are women, and
thematic topics including "Being a Lesbian..." The the book includes a good selection of each author's
poems are readable in style and speak to racism, sex- work, a general introduction and a biographical note
ism and conflicts between women of different genera- on each author. My favorite of the monographs I
tions and backgrounds. bought were Olive Senior's Talking of Trees (Cala-
If you ever tried to order African women’s fiction bash, ISBN 976- 8040-00-9, C$6.00) and Lorna Goodi-
before the recent wave of new publications (thank son's Tamarind Season (Institute of Jamaica, no ISBN,
you, U.K. Women’s Press and others), you surely en- C$5.00). I hope the recent publication of Senior’s sto-
countered Flora Nwapa’s Efuru (Heinemann African ries (Summer Lightning and Other Stories — Long-
Writers Series — one of the few books in the series by man, ISBN 0-582-78627-4, approx. C$8.00, dist. in
a woman author!) Ms. Nwapa has had her own press Canada by Thomas Allen) may spark interest in her
in Nigeria for a number of years, and has published work; she has written on the status of women in the
35 January 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:56 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
Caribbean, and her poetry is literary but pulls no mouth and by example... What we are therefore at-
punches in condemning racism and colonialism. tempting to do here... is to return the woman, the
Goodison’s book includes poems about New York and mother to her rightful place as the educator of the
Toronto, a great proletarian answer to the line (quoted nation. We are attempting in our small way to provide
at the beginning of her poem "Judges"), "This court a forum where women can still give to the nation;
does not support women’s liberation" and, as a bonus, perhaps no longer now by word of mouth only but by
cover art and drawings by the author. For all these and the Pen." A Pot of Poetry is an extraordinary book of
more write University of the West Indies Publishers’ seemingly-simple poems, quite attractively produced
Association, P.O. Box 42, Mona, Kingston 7, Jamaica and illustrated with black and white drawings, which
W.A. speak to the conditions of Black people, particularly
Without doubt the most exciting Black Women’s women in South Africa. Need I say more than that the
publication I bought at the fair was the second book of remarkable ability of poetry to speak on many levels
another Black Women’s Press, A Pot of Poetry by simultaneously is used to powerful effect in this col-
Cikizwa Nzube ka Mokoena, published by Seriti Sa lection? That the women of Seriti Sa Sechaba had the
Sechaba Publishers from South Africa (ISBN 0-620- courage to publish this book is remarkable; that all ọf
11045- 7, less than C$10. This press (its name means us should order it to support them seems to mea must.
"Spirit of the Nation; Women are the Spirit of the A short story collection, Women in South Africa:
Nation") was founded in February 1987. They explain From the Heart — an Anthology was also announced
the background of their project in this way, "In tradi- at the fair and will be published in the U.S. next year
tional African society women were the custodians of probably by Kitchen Table. Write to these women
culture. They were responsible for the education of directly: Seriti Sa Sechaba Publishers, P.O. Box 62384,
family and society passing their lessons on by word of Marshalltown, 2107, Johannesburg, South Africa.
New Directions (Penguin in Canada) offers col-
ETEL ADNAN lections from two earlier 20th-century poets that
should make good backlist additions to an established
THE ARAB APOCALYPSE section: H.D. Selected Poems (ISBN 0- 8112-1066-9,
US$8.95) and Stevie Smith New Selected Poems
a Pei 3 (ISBN 0-8112-1068-5, US$7.95). Along the same vein
LALE a ast Black Sparrow (Firefly in Canada) has announced,
— samar I= also for September, Emerald Ice: Selected Poems
anai N — Na f 1962-1987 by Diane Wakoski (ISBN 0-87685-744- 6,
US$12.50 — hardbound and signed editions also
available). Remind your customers that single-author
selections like these are perfect when they want to
E ret fel l e cA t d n da en st r d ue cc to ion nst r iu tc set ls f . p o Ae t i fc o ud ri s c do eu r fse o r ct eo ! r he aa sd w a r its tu eb ns t a mnt ai na yl q su man alt li t y b o oo kf s w thor ak t ab ry e a e i tw her rit e hr a rw d h o to
— Elizabeth Fernea find or out of print.
This book, a masterwork of the dislocations
and radiant outcries of the Arab world, Feminist Bookstore Bestsellers A-G
r peaf of eirm ts s .E .t .e l A —dna n , J as a a cm kon g t Hhe i rfo sre cm hos mt an The rest of this column is part one of an alphabeti-
cal (by author) list of poetry "bestsellers" compiled
POETRY / $13.50 ISBN 0-942996-09-7 from the questionnaires you so enthusiastically re-
THE POST-APOLLO PRESS turned earlier this year. Each writer listed here was
35 Marie St., Sausalito, CA 94965 named by several stores. Those marked "*" are the ten
statistical favorites — those I concluded are sure fire
36 Volume 11 Number 5
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:56 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
winners no poetry section should be without. I coded
authors "L" if their work could also be shelved in a
separate Lesbian Section and "B" if it could be shelved
in a separate Black Women Section. The editions men- by Chrystos
tioned are all paperback unless otherwise noted.
Margaret Atwood “The honesty and
Best known as an author of novels like The Hand-
fierceness in Chrystos’
maid's Tale, Atwood was a poet first, and a strong
backlist of her poetry is still in print. She writes with poems is,
craft, but the control only serves to accentuate the in her own words,
sp io nw ge ler f u vl o l ue mm eo st :i o n thal e c mon ot ste n t r e co ef n th e ir s Iw no tr ek rl. u nI a rp r (e Of xer ford, a thunder
ISBN 0-19-540451-3, C$8.95); another good one is True that clears the air.”
Stories, with a striking sequence of poems on torture
written out of Atwood’s work with Amnesty and PEN — Audre Lorde
(Oxford, ISBN 0-19-540369-X, C$8.95). Selected ISBN 0-88974-015-1
Poems and Selected Poems II are also available for Paper, $9.50
fans and scholars, from Houghton Mifflin in the U.S. Available to bookstores through Inland or Bookpeople in the U.S.
(1965- 1975 volume ISBN 0-395-40422-3, US$9.95; PRESS GANG PUBLISHERS
1976-1986 volume ISBN 0- 395-45406-9, US$9.95) and Vancouver, B.C.
Oxford in Canada (1965-1975 volume ISBN 0-29- Canada
540251-0, C$14.95; 1976-1986 volume ISBN 0-19-
540561-7, C$12.95).
two volumes of poetry. They are attractive, readable,
Olga Broumas (L) and centered in the West Coast landscape: Earth
Her most recent book of poems, which should Witch (ISBN 0-920080-17-0, C$5.95) and The Annie
enthrall any of your customers interested in feminist Poems (ISBN 0-920080-91-X, C$7.95) — both from
language theory, is a collaboration of very experimen- Harbour Publishing (outside British Columbia order
tal writing with Jane Miller: Black Holes, Black from U of T Press, Book People or Inland). Harbour
Stockings (Wesleyan, ISBN 0-8195-6141-X, US$9.95, has announced a new volume of Cameron’s short
in Canada dist. by Scholarly). If it’s not already steady stories, Women, Kids, and Huckleberry Wine for
backlist for you, do order her first book of strong and October (ISBN 0-920080-70-7, C$19.95 cl).
artful lesbian poems which won the Yale Younger
Poets award: Beginning With O (Yale, ISBN 0-300- Cheryl Clarke (B,L)
02111-9, US$6.95, in Canada dist. by David Stimpson). Has anyone missed Living as a Lesbian (Fire-
brand, ISBN 0-932379- 12-5, US$6.95)?
Rita Mae Brown *(L)
She’s not publishing poetry now, but lesbian Emily Dickinson*
book collectors still enjoy re-reading her work from This entry should cheer up feminist teachers of
the 70's which was reissued in a new one volume literary history: a 19th-century American poet on a
edition: Poems (Crossing, ISBN 0-89594-247-X, feminist bestseller list! The standard edition of her
US$8.95, in Canada dist. by Bookcentre). work is still the one done by Thomas H. Johnson, the
man who "rescued" Dickinson’s poetry from the Vic-
Anne Cameron *(L) torian editing of her family. Try Selected Poems and
If Cameron’s novels sell well for you, do try her Letters of E.D. (Doubleday Anchor, ISBN 0-385-
37 January 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:56 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
09423-X, US$5.95) or Complete Poems of E.D. (Little Nikki Giovanni (B)
Brown, 0-316-18413-6, US$10.95). A lovely gift book of Giovanni has been writing poetry that speaks to
her poems with oversize watercolors is Acts of Light, racism — for children as well as grown-ups —as long
ed. Jane Langton (N.Y.G.S., ISBN 0-8212-1648-1, as Angela Davis has been analyzing similar phenom-
US$16.95, in Canada dist. by Little). If you're lucky ena in non-fiction. Her most recent poetry for adults :
enough to number among your clientele poetry en- Those Who Ride the Night Winds (Morrow Quill,
thusiasts or scholars with lots of money, a recent edi- US$4.95, 0-688- 02653-2, in Canada dist. by Macmil-
tion improves on Johnson’s, providing the exact lan) and for children: Spin a Soft Black Song (FSG
spacing, punctuation and organization of the chap- Sunburst, US$3.50, 0-374- 46469-3, in Canada dist. by
books in which this intriguing poet so carefully as- Collins). If Black Women’s autobiography or literary
sembled her own work: The Manuscript Books of criticism sell well for you, you might want to try these
E.D.: A Facsimile Edition 2 vols., ed. Ralph W. Frank- backlist titles: Gemini: An Extended Autobiographi-
lin (Harvard, ISBN 0-674-54828-0, US$125.00). cal Statement on my First 25 Years of Being a Black
Poet (Penguin, US$4.95, 0-14-004264-4 or A Poetic
Elsa Gidlow (L) Equation: Conversations Between Nikki Giovanni
Perhaps the appearance of her wonderful auto- and Margaret Walker (Howard, US$ 9.95, 0-88258-
biography, Elsa, I Come With My Songs, (Booklegger, 003-5).
Bookpeople, Inland), not long before her death, has
renewed interest in this unjustly-neglected poet. Gid- Judy Grahn* (L)
low was the quietly proud older lesbian with braids Grahn and Black lesbian poet Pat Parker cut an
wound up in a bun in the early lesbian/gay documen- LP of poetry in the early 70's — one of Olivia’s first
tary film Word Is Out. Several other volumes are also records. Grahn’s work has extraordinary fire, fueled
available from Booklegger: Makings for Meditation recently by her serious study and reinterpretation of
(ISBN 0-912932-05-8, US$5.00). Ask No Man Pardon: myths and symbol systems. Her most recent The
The Philosophical Significance of Being Lesbian Queen of Swords (Beacon, US$14.95 cl, 0-8070-6802-0,
(with photos, $3.00). Where Eros Laughs and Weeps in Canada dist. by Fitzhenry) was preceded by The
— a cassette recording of an interview and poetry Queen of Wands (Crossing, US$6.95, 0-89594-094-9,
reading broadcast on KPFA ($10.00). Sapphic Songs: in Canada from Bookcentre). The Work of a Common
18 to 80 (ISBN 0-912932-14-7, US$5.95. Sapphic Songs Woman (Crossing, US$7.95, 0-89594-155-4) makes
is also available from Naiad, Bookpeople and Inland). available her early work which was originally pub-
(40% for 5+, 50% prepaid. Booklegger, 555 29th Street, lished by The Women’s Press collective and Diana
San Francisco, CA 94131.) Press.
Marilyn Hacker (L)
Handsome Elsa Gidlow Bookmarks Her book of hot lesbian — yes, can you believe it?
Photo of the 85-year-old "poet warrior" with — Se a ss oo nn sn e (t As r bis o r ,L o Uve S, $ 7 D .9e 5a t h 0, - a 8n 7d 7 9 5t -h 8e 1 7 -C 3h ,a n ig ni n Cg a n o af d a the
her quote, "We consider the artist a special sort of
p soe rr ts o n o. f It ar ti is s t .m " o Dre e s il gi nk ee dly i nth a ct o m e mach er a o tf io n u s o fi s t ha e special d Ui Ss $t 8. . 9b 5y , 0M -3ac 9m 4-i 7l 2la 8n 2) 6. - 2T ,h e i n e a Cr al nie ar d a A dss iu stm . p bt yio n Rs a n(K dn omop )f , is
poet/philosopher by artist Jocelyn Cohen. Availa- a fine example of contemporary American "tradi-
ble to bookstores at no charge. Order from Celeste tional" poetic style..
West, Booklegger Publishing, 555 29th Street, San
Francisco CA 94131. 415-647-9074. Bookstores, Jan Hardy (L)
please order in quantities of 100 for easy shipping We can only hope Out Here Flying (Sidewalk
and packing. Revolution, US$3.95, 0-961-74060-4, dist. by Inland)
will have a sequel soon.
38
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:56 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
Joy Harjo
Even if you're just beginning a poetry section, be
sure to order She Had Some Horses. More Native
American poets including Harjo deserve a wider
readership. I'll elaborate on this in a future column.
(Thunder's Mouth, US$6.95, 0-938410-06-7, dist. by
Inland.)
June Jordan (B)
Sample Jordan’s fine, passionately anti-racist
writing in her most recent single volume: Living
Room (Thunder's Mouth, US$6.95, 0-938410-26-1,
dist. by Inland) or Passion: New Poems 1977-1980
(Beacon/Ariadne, US$6.95, 0-8070-3219-0, BPA 5, in
Canada dist. by Fitzhenry). s“I l i t pe pll e y do u d I o d uo nn't tre had e p o pe atr gy e, s b u t a s m y e a e sy ie ls y as I
Denise Levertov i hm aag nin de sd o mthi es p o wet o’s m ey ae ns ' ss li p bpi on dg y d o w wn h so ilm ee out on a
I doubt Levertov has made it onto curricula yet, cruise. A short book and irresistible once you
though her long and prolific career as a writer and her open the cover.”
devotion to political causes deserves such recognition. — Carol Seajay. Feminist Bookstore News
Her two most recent books are: Breathing the Water, “...a fine affirmation of lesbian identity and
which includes anti-nuclear poems and pieces about sexuality.”
Latin American refugees (US$6.95, 0-8112-1027-8) and —carol anne douglas. off our backs
Poems 1968-1972 (US$8.95, 0-8112-1005-7), which Bookstores may order from Inland Book Co., Inc.,
should include some of her anti-Vietnam-War pieces 245 Bradley St, East IH SBav Ne :n , 0 -C 9t 6 1 -0 76 45 01 62 0, - 4o r $ 3 c .9al 5l p8 b00-243-0138
— both from New Directions (Penguin in Canada). A
fun, large-format illustrated book you might try if you with cancer, Audre Lorde continues to chastise and
have book collectors among your clientele is Pig inspire us — in poetry as well as her perhaps better-
Dreams: Scenes from the Life of Sylvia (Country- known essays. I still like her strong, now 10-year-old
man, US$12.95, 0-914378- 82-1, also available in a book inspired by African traditions The Black Uni-
limited edition). corn (US$7.95, 0-393-04516-1). But her most recent
single book Our Dead Behind Us (US$6.95, 0-393-
Dorothy Livesay 30327-6) and the collection Chosen Poems: Old and
We desperately need to hear older women’s New (US$5.95, 0-393-30017-X) are fine and stronger
voices too — and what better one than the simply still. All are from Norton (Penguin in Canada). O
eloquent and compassionate voice of one of Canada’s
major poets? I'd recommend starting with the excel- After working at the Toronto Women’s Book-
lent retrospective selection Livesay fairly recently store, Betsy Nuse operated a small publishing com-
chose herself: The Self-Completing Tree (Porcepic, pany and mail order antiquarian book service
C$12.95, 0-88878- 258-6, in the U.S. dist. by Inland). specializing in books by and about women called
You might also order at the same time her autobiogra- Boudicca Books. When, exhausted but happy, she
phy Right Land, Left Hand: A True Life of the 30's closed Boudicca in 1986, she began to use her regular
(C$6.95, 0-88878-105-9) from the same publisher. paychecks and spare time to buy and read feminist
poetry. She has contributed poetry reviews to Broad-
Audre Lorde* (B,L) side, Canadian Selection and The Canadian Book
Despite a long and personally agonizing battle Review Annual.
39 January 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:56 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
Mary’s Faves and Raves when I picked up this book recently, I was reminded
of the sad beauty of Hurston/Janie’s philosophy and
her lovely language.
The following article is from the New Words Summer Margaret Laurence, A Bird In The House. Her
Newsletter. novels are super, but this collection of short fiction is
my favorite. These are stories whose main character
We're asked so often to recommend our favorites remains the same in each piece and, although each ċan
that we've decided to start a Favorites column. Mary be read separately, the whole becomes a chronicle of
Lowty is starting, but look for all of us to come out growing up.
with our favorites in the future. Margaret Atwood, The Handmaidď’s Tale. A dys-
tophic future where surrogacy is enforced on a class of
Mary’s Favorites: breeder women for the benefit of the ruling patriarchs
It sounds easy, but how do you boil down de- in a bleak future where infertility is a severe problem.
cades of reading into a list of a dozen or so favorite Atwood’s work has been a staple of the bookstore
books? I've arbitrarily eliminated books no longer in since the beginning when we eagerly passed The
print, books by men, non-fiction (this time), mysteries, Edible Woman and Surfacing among ourselves.
science fiction, and poetry.
These are all works of fiction where the writing is E
so visual and powerful that to recall the title or to hold
the book brings back whole scenes that are imprinted
in my memory and renews friendship with the char- Doris Lessing, The Golden Notebook was a reve-
acters. These are books that I was impelled to finish lation to me and I recall with such affection those
and immediately wished I could read again for the notebooks that chronicle her life.
first time; books whose images and language are still Nadine Gordimer, Burger’s Daughter. Set in
vivid years after I closed the covers on them. These South Africa, this tells the story of a family fighting
women are survivors — of war years, adolescence, against apartheid. This was the first of Gordimer’s
injustice, life. They are written by women who craft that I read and now I seek out all of her books.
sentences beautifully as well as tell stories and create Virginia Woolf.I can never decide if To the Light-
memorable characters. They taught me something, house or Mrs. Dalloway is my favorite.
made me think, laugh, cry... The are listed pretty much Paule Marshall, Brown Girl, Brownstones.
as they first came to mind. (All of these books are now Marshall's affection for her characters adds
available in paperback.) enormously to the story of a Black family adjusting to
New York as the father yearns to return to his island
E home.
Alice Walker, The Color Purple. Celie’s letters are
Zora Neale Hurston, Their Eyes Were Watching more powerfully evocative than any narrative. She
God. Scenes of Janie and Tea Cake spring to mind but becomes a well beloved friend as we share her life in
January 1989 40 Volume 11 Number 5
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:56 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
this popular book. It is New Words’ all-time best Ella Lefland, Rumors of Peace. On the west coast
selling novel. of America, an adolescent comes of age during WWII,
Willa Cather, O Pioneers, My Antonia, and The learning about prejudice, love, and fear. Superbly
Professor's House. I refuse to choose among them, so written, this is funny and tender, a top favorite among
there! favorites.
Toni Morrison, The Bluest Eye. It’s difficult to I can't take up much more room, but I also can't
pick a favorite of Morrison’s, particularly with her stop without just mentioning the following contem-
latest, Beloved, such a fine book. But memory insists porary women whose books are a must to read:
I pick this one. Jamaica Kincaid, Annie John; Rachel Ingalls, Mrs
Caliban; Carole Maso, Ghost Dance; and Marilyn
: Robinson, Housekeeping.
The end. But not the last of the good books. The
The following titles share a common time from minute I finished I thought of dozens more that were
World War II. They detail the havoc in women’s lives absolute musts, but I have to leave something for the
that result from war, and the cruelty of war that men next list.
don’t write about. -Mary LowryO
Harriet Arnow, The Dollmaker. This is a power-
ful novel about a family displaced during wartime
when the father moves them from their beloved More Short Raves
countryside to Detroit where he finds war work in a Intimate Matters: A History of Sexuality in
factory. The wife, whose competence is unquestioned America, John D'Emilio and Estelle B. Freedman,
on the farm, becomes increasingly alienated and in- Harper & Row. By synthesizing a vast number of
competent in the cruel city. narrowly specific historical studies into a highly read-
Elisa Morante, History: A Novel. Translated from able narrative account, the authors have produced an
German. This novel is set in Germany slightly before instant basic text. Their analytical approach avoids
WWII when, as Vonnegut says in the introduction, the simple oppositions between "repression" and "libera-
immune system of humanity broke down. We are tion" or "hypocrisy" and "openness", stressing instead
shown the prewar camps and the beginnings of the the shift in sexual meanings and the changing tech-
reign of terror and horror. nologies of sexual regulation. They are attuned
Plays By Women 7. Gay Plays 3.
Selected and introduced by Mary Remnant. Selected and introduced by Michael Wilcox.
Thatcher's Women by Kay Adshead; Adult Cock and Bull Story by Richard Crowe and
Child/Dead Child by Claire Dowie; Stamping, Richard Zajdlic; Terminal Bar by Paul Selig;
Shouting and Singing Home by Lisa Evans; Levitation by Timothy Mason; The Prisoners of
Deep Night by Marie Laberge; and Effie's Burn- War by J.R. Ackerly.
ing by Valerie Windsor. 413 14740 1 $13.95
413 17490 5 $13.95
METHUEN
Call Toll Fre e: : 1 -8 00D-541R-20A86 HMEINEAMANN
70 Court Street
41
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:56 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
throughout to the interaction of sexual politics and categories to the knotty problems of biological differ-
r$ac2ial4 a.n9d 5 c la ssc ldi.f f er-enMceso. dA e mrajnor a cThieivmemeents.O ence and legal equality. Others are critical of decon-
struction for its mystifying jargon and theoretical
narrowness—Barbara Christian’s "The Race for
The Book of Seeing With One's Own Eyes, Theory," reprinted here, is already a classic. And Leslie
Sharon Doubiago, Graywolf Press. True, passionately Wahl Rabine points out that some of the most interest-
told stories about coming of age in the sixties — teen ing of the deconstructive categories have developed
beauty queen, hippie, mother, writer. Sexy, earthy, independently in the work of feminist theoreticians
fiercely intelligent, and lavishly yet precisely worded, Nancy Chodorow and Zillah Eisenstein.
this book enacts the politics of personal authenticity If your customers include students who have to
that shaped a generation. "Doubiago’s stories are become deconstruction-literate, or theory freaks who
powerful and strong. They show us ourselves in ways want to, this is a good text to point them towards. Also
we haven't seen before." — Alice Walker. $7.50. -MT good for befuddled booksellers who want to be able
to choose among all of those feminist deconstruction-
= ist books rolling off the university presses.
Pam Rosenthal/ Modern Times O
Feminist Studies, Volume 14, Number 1, Spring
1988, $8.00 (Can be ordered from Feminist Studies, ER
c/o Women’s Studies Program, University of Mary-
land, College Park, MD 20742). Heroes of Their Own Lives: The Politics and
This issue of Feminist Studies is devoted to de-
History of Family Violence, Linda Gordon, Penguin.
construction, an intellectual project that has been Too often, we tend to see family violence only in its
wildly successful in many university departments. current forms, to treat it as a problem without a his-
Deconstruction attempts to expose "the artificial and tory. In this intimate and complex narrative, noted
hierarchical oppositions (man/woman, mind/body) feminist historian Linda Gordon challenges that habit
that lie at the heart of Western thought," and its pro- of mind. Tracing the changing forms of family vi-
ponents claim that it’s critical to feminist re-under- olence through the last 150 years, this close and sensi-
standings of just about everything. The language of tive reading of the records of social welfare agencies
deconstruction is strange, opaque, and difficult—as presents a history from the point of view of its victims.
well as arrogant, French-inflected, academic—but it’s Ultimately, this is a study of how family violence is
also intriguing and promises some new perspectives. constructed historically — and of how it may be con-
There are whole shelves of feminist deconstruc- fronted politically. $24.95 cl.
tion analyses rolling off the university presses this
year, but this collection is the one I'd recommend for Kindred, Octavia Butler. Recently reissued as
openers. Firstly and foremostly, I like it because it part of Beacon Press’ superb Black Women Writers
analyzes deconstruction, an academic philosophical Series, this is a gripping science fiction/ fantasy novel
movement, from the standpoint of feminism, a move- that uses its literary devices to tell intricate and impor-
ment dedicated to social change, and it does so in tant social truths. Dana, a black woman, celebrates her
ways that are neither starry-eyed nor anti-intellectual. twenty-sixth birthday in 1976 only to be snatched
There is an engagement with tħe interaction of theory from her home in southern California and transported
and practice here that is refreshingly un-preachy and to the antebellum South, where she becomes the
instructive. friend, slave, and protector of her own ancestors. Pro-
The essays are smart and provocative. Some at- foundly influenced by the slave narrative tradition,
tempt to define the important and innovative aspects and brilliantly perceptive about the present, this is a
o lif k e dd e c Jo on as nt r u Wct . io Sn c o tf to 'r s af pe pm lii cn ai ts it o n t h oe fo r y d— ecI o n p sta rr uti cc tu ivla erly b$ook8 .th9at5 ".li es -likMe tohe d treutrh"n (f ro mT tihme Inetrsod uc tiOon).
42
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:56 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
NEW AND STILL IN PRINT Alexander is an illustrated biography of a modestly
By Tee Corinne talented landscape painter (1881-1953) who struggled
to create in the face of disinterest and adversity. HMS
When I began this column two years ago, I Press, PO Box 794, Station ‘P’, Toronto, Ontario M5S
thought that there weren't many books about women 2Y4, Canada, $8.95 pb, 0-919957-14-5.
artists available. I’ve changed my mind. There are a Vision and Difference: Femininity, Feminism
lot of books already out there and mainstream art and the Histories of Art by Griselda Pollock is a
publishing seems recently to have noticed that there sophisticated and complex series of essays designed
is a market for these books. Hurrah! Now if they will to shift the whole way that women and women artists
only keep the prices reasonable... are understood within art history with essays on the
Giving Birth is Just the Beginning: Women relevance of Marxism to feminist art history, women
Speak About Mothering (text in French and English) as subjects and makers of films, etc. Routledge, Chap-
with photographs by Judith Lermer Crawley is a col- man & Hall, $14.95 pb, 0-415-00722-4; $57.50 c], 0-415-
lection of appealing, well presented photographs with 00721-6.
text by the women pictured, in which they talk about Some Memories of Drawings, Georgia O'Keeffe,
the personal pleasures and problems of mothering. ed. by Doris Bry is another absolutely lovely book
Sel9f-pu8blis0hed1, di1st. -by 0 Inla-nd,7 $2.0.0 0 lar:ge pb, 2- from the University of New Mexico Press. Drawings
are combined with O'Keeffe’s comments about where
Women Expressionists by Shulamith Behr has a the images came from and some of what they meant
cover that's so compelling that it ought to jump off the to her. Inspiring. U. of N. M. Press, $19.95 cl, 0-8263-
shelves. It deals with women involved with the Ex-
pressionist movement in painting in the early part of
this century. The images are vivid and emotionally
charged. The text consists of pertinent historical and
biographical material. Rizzoli, $19.95 large pb, 0-8478-
0963-3.
Kathe Kollwitz by W. Timm reproduces many
seldom seen images by Kollwitz (1867-1945), an Ex-
pressionist artist known for her anti-war and humani-
tarian concerns. The text is very compelling.
Henschelverlag Kunst und Gesellschaft, dist. by Im-
ported Publications, 320 West Ohio St., Chicago, IL
60610, $17.00 large cl, 0-8285-1735-5.
Sybil Jacobson: Painting in the West by Mary G.
43 January 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:56 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
1113-x. tographs by contemporary photographer Groover
Also from U. of N. M. Press is Eleanor King: Sixty whose work has a lonely city feel about it whether
Years in American Dance ed. by Nicole Plett, a lovely she’s doing kitchen still lifes, urban landscapes, or
book of photographs and essays about a delightful individual portraits. The picture quality is exquisite.
and germinal figure in the development of modern Museum of Modern Art, 11 West 53 St., NY, NY 10019,
dance. $10.95 large pb, 0-8263-1028-1. $18.50 large pb, 0-87070-309-9.
Contemporary Women Artists by Wendy Beckett Rondo by Miriam Schapiro is an elegant and
is a handsome new book combining beautiful illustra- exotic collection of colorful pictures by noted senior
tions of the work of 50 artists with an informative and feminist artist Schapiro (b. 1923) who was active in
lucid text. Universe, distributed by St. Martin's, $24.95 creating what some people refer to as The Feminist Art
large cl, 0-87663-691-1. Movement. She’s been around a long time, paid her
Views From Jade Terrace: Chinese Women Ar- dues, and she’s very good. The pictures in this book
tists 1300-1912 by Weidner, Laing, Lo, Chu and Robin- are of dancers and still lives and almost vibrate off the
son is a superb reference work, profusely illustrated pages. The book is bound accordion style and can be
with a highly detailed and informative text. Rizzoli, viewed as a traditional book or stretched out into one
$45 large cl, 0-8478-1003-8. long page. Bedford Arts, dist. by Consortium, $29.95
Women in Design: A Contemporary View by Liz large cl, 0-938491-12-1.
McQuiston is an overview of the work of 43 designers The Sisters’ Arts: The Writing & Painting of
from six countries. The work is very mainstream and Virginia Woolf and Vanessa Bell by Diane Filby Gil-
glossy. Photographs of the designers accompany their lespie deals with the creative interaction between
work. Rizzoli, $25 large pb, 0-8478-0944-7. Virginia Woolf and her older sister, the painter Va-
Jan Groover by Susan Kismaric is a book of pho- nessa Bell. They influenced each other and a host of
other creative individuals. Syracuse University Press,
$32.50 c], 0-8156-2430-1.
Black Pearls: Blues Queens of the 1920's by
Daphne Duval Harrison is a finely produced, lucidly
written book with wonderful photographs of the per-
formers. Recommended. Rutgers University Press,
$19.95 c], 0-8135-1279-4.
Five interesting books available from the Univer-
sity of Washington Press, not all new but all
interesting:
The Expressionist Landscape: North American
Modernist Painting by Ruth Stevens Appelhof, Bar-
bara Haskell and Jeffrey R. Hayes, has major sections
on Canadian Emily Carr (1871-1945: a magnificent
painter of trees and totem poles who never married)
and on Georgia O'Keeffe (1887-1986). Also touched on
are Alice Neel’s (1900-1984) little known landscapes.
$19.95 large pb, 0-295-96691-2.
Ilse Bing: Three Decades of Photography by
SEAN a) yY Nancy C. Barrett is a collection of gently romantic,
moody, warm feeling photographs by one of the
Painting by Alice Neal pioneers of modern photography who was born in
From Contemporary Women Artists Germany in 1899 and worked in Paris and New York.
44
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:56 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
The clear and interesting text establishes Bing in her
social and intellectual context. New Orleans Museum OUT OF. PRINI
of Art, dist. by University of Washington Press, $14.95
large pb, 0-295-96312-3. WANTED... OFFERED
Lee Krasner: A Retrospective by Barbara Rose
focuses long overdue attention on the dense and
powerful abstractions of Krasner (1908-1984) who
was often overlooked because she was married to
Jackson Pollock. The text is strong and intelligent. Books Wanted
Museum of Fine Arts, Houston and Museum of Mod-
ern Art, NY, dist. by University of Washington Press, Grand Books
$14.95 0-295-96148-1. Box 7424
Two excellent books about photographer Imogen Jackson, WY 83001
Cunningham come from University of Washington 307-733-1687
Imogen Cunningham: Photographs which includes Brown, Rita Mae. Plain Brown Wrapper, Songs to a
powerful portraits of Frieda Kahlo and Gertrude Stein Handsome Woman, Hand that Cradles the Rock.
among others, $19.95 large pb, 0-295-95452-3; and Arnold, June. Sister Gin (mult cc.).
After Ninety which she did after she was ninety, of
active and interesting people who were also over Carol Seajay
ninety. $17.50 large pb, 0-295-95673-9. Feminist Bookstore News
New in paper from the University of Washington PO Box 882554
Press (and much appreciated!) are two books on Emily San Francisco CA 94188
Carr (1871-1945). The Art of Emily Carr by Doris 415-626-1556
Shadbolt with gorgeous reproductions of Carr's lush Chicago Women’s Graphics Union’s Celtic knotwork
landscape paintings, a bargain at $24.95 large pb, 0- Women’s History Poster: "Work woven/ Turning
295-96695-5; and The Life of Emily Carr by Paula through time/ A history of women is a history to be
Blanchard, a compelling biography. $14.95 pb, 0-295- fought for." In frameable condition. Ə
96680-7.
North Carolina Quilts ed. by Ruth H. Roberson
is a serious consideration of quilting as an expression Helen Young Frost, $12.95 large pb, 0-914881-12-4.
of creativity, richly illustrated with color photos of Let's Make Waves! Complete Instructions for
quilts and b&w’s of many of the quilters. The Univer- Making Ocean Wave Quilts by Marianne Fons and
sity of North Carolina Press, $17.50 large pb, 0-8078- Liz Porter, $13.95 large pb, 0-914881-21-3.
4234-6. The Ladies’ Work Table: Domestic Needlework
C&T Publishing brings out a number of very in Nineteenth-Century America by Margaret Vincent
attractive how-to books on quilting. Write for is a scholarly look at the function of needlework in the
complete catalog: 5021 Blum Road #1, Martinez, CA 19th century home. Allentown Art Museum, dist. by
94553. Some of their books: Light & Shadows: Optical the University Press of New England, $19.95, 0-
Illusion in Quilts by Susan McKelvey is a pattern 929011-39-2.
book for making some striking, sophisticated quilts. Still available and selling well is The Fair
$14.95 large pb, 0-914881-20-5. A Celebration of Women: The Story of The Woman’s Building,
Hearts: A Sampler of Heart Motifs for Quilting, World’s Columbian Exposition, Chicago 1893 by
Patchwork & Applique by Jean Wells & Marina Jeanne Madeline Weimann, an excellent, thorough
Anderson, $13.95 large pb, 0-914881-22-1. The New anlda rentgeretai ni npg bboo,k . A0cad-em8y9 C7hi3cag3o,- $2145.95-0. O
Lone Star Quilt Handbook by Blanche Young and
45 January 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:56 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
By Jane L. Troxell novel that contrasts gay male life in contemporary
Lambda Rising Book Report urban America, pre-AIDS and post-AIDS. A black
comedy about AIDS, the book has generated very
Alas, 1988 — a banner year in gay men’s literature different reactions (from love to hate but never in-be-
— is over. The good news is that 1989 will prove to be
just as satisfying for readers of gay male literature. tt hw is e e wn il) l bf er o a m b ig t h boe o k r fe oa rd e 1r 98s 9 . I've encountered. N
Again, AIDS will figure prominently in this The bestselling Men on Men 2: Best New Gay
year's titles — even when AIDS does not figure in the Fiction (NAL/Plume, $9.95 pb, 0452261430) is the
plot. When David Leavitt's latest ignores AIDS (see second exciting collection of gay fiction from NAL.
previous issue), it is newsworthy; that a book is "pre- Eighteen new and recently published short stories by
AIDS" brings the work significance. Of course, many the acknowledged pro’s and bright new voices of gay
books, such as the collection of essays by controversial literature show this collection to be on the cutting edge
AIDS activist Larry Kramer, will attack the subject — not just of gay fiction, but of contemporary Ameri-
head on. Whatever else happens this year, though, can literature.
expect the high quality of the writing to transcend the In the long-awaited sequel to The Boy Who Picked
focus of gay men’s literature in 1989. the Bullets Up, Charles Nelson again recounts the
amazing adventures and misadventures of Kurt
Strom. In Panthers in the Skins of Men (Lyle Stuart,
$9.95 pb, 0-8216-2006-1, April), Strom, back from Viet-
nam, teams up with the potential love of his life, Nick,
NEW TITLES — GENERAL INTEREST va e rb yr a w mn uy c h It mali aa rn r i es dt a t ae n dt r voo ep ryer m fr uo cm h iN nte rw ig uJ ee dr s e wy i t hwho is
Blackbird author Larry Duplechan’s latest is due Kurt.
in March. Tangled Up in Blue (St. Martin’s, $15.95 cl, New in paperback will be the national bestseller
0-312-02583-1) is the story of three people bound by about the joys and pains of coming of age, Mysteries
ties of love, passion and friendship until a dramatic of Pittsburgh by Michael Chabon (Harper & Row,
crisis threatens to destroy them all. Maggie Sullivan is $7.95 pb, 0-06-097212-2, April). This first novel is a
happily married until, on the very same day, she finds sure bet in gay and mainstream markets, especially
out that she is pregnant and that her best friend, a gay after the controversy over the authors (hetero)sexu-
male, has been diagnosed with ARC (AIDS-related ality. Apparently, when it comes to preference,
complex). If that wasn't emotionally unbinding Chabon is not as ambivalent as his Pittsburgh pro-
enough, she finds out that her husband and best friend tagonist.
had been lovers years before. In March, Ballantine will publish the 1988 best-
Eighty-Sixed (Viking Penguin, $18.95 c], 0-670- seller, The Beautiful Room Is Empty by Edmund
82515-5) by David B. Feinberg is a shockingly, bitingly White ($4.95 pb, 0-345-35151- 7). In this sequel to A
satirical, frequently hilarious, and ultimately moving Boy's Own Story, a sexually obsessed, timidly conven-
November 1988 46
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:56 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
tional boy emerges from the tragi-comedy of his ado- AIDS
lescence making his way to the confidence of- Two important AIDS-related titles will be re-
adulthood. leased in paperback by New American Li-
brary /Plume Fiction in March. Written shortly before
SMALL PRESSES the author’s death to AIDS in July 1988, Robert Ferro’s
Second Son ($7.95, 0-452-26225-9) is a beautiful and
With Shadows of Love: American Gay Fiction
($8.95 pb, 1-55583- 136-2), Alyson Publications breaks deeply moving novel about two men who are brought
away from the New York City /San Francisco axis that together by the deadly disease they share. Plume is
t i ch E i nch oda a nes i , t t s o emd r ir nnio a tc cm l shC l l u e i h rn d [da o a ir ni ft cvle ge ie d ts Sr i hes B i sg J alt daa u y cy oar k c w r rsoim s, os f ] t s a s Hl a ge h i ra s t ea y p hw s a e n or mc v i it o cc eei ol s rn nl ue a g nc la l t ni t ne rf dd l yo e r s.c g s s o a t n B t yo st oh r te o e i ym m ke l s l ipp e i ss noa htts r ht a wa r bs t ay u2 h y0 t o s p A , o my lr m i "e t v oTa er e rr r ha es -y e. a g c( sS $l too as 8 olnmo d. r9 t ye l5 yp o a,n u n o b e d0 a f l t- i 4 t s W n aa5h c u2ai hn ms - 3 2 eg 2 bs6 -H i2 y nN e 3 a er g7 e ae -b rd: 2 -r se ) ota . eP ls ap d rk tT lo ia y s hf at i i d il sa cae v u f ss et c f r h o e oi to l cn f ilr t se i ic n n t AtG gh gi Ioe De n o Sh e r . xA u g o e mIe Tf cD u h aS W tn e p i vrEh o b efpi ft oai m d ci o wl e ke eo hm s r ot te i oc e e’s l l e lt s- h e the
satisfying than those in Men [on Men]." doesn't believe the disease will kill him and the Gay
Men’s Health Crisis volunteer who reaches out to help
him, and of a mother who defies the fears and preju-
dice of family and friends to bring her estranged,
dying son home to Greeley, Colorado. Whitmore re-
The C A os t f i or fs t L n ovov e e l ( $ 8w .9il 5l ph big , h l 0i -g 9h 3t 8 7 L 43ib -e 1r 0t -y 4, P Mre as rs c' hs ) s e ba yson. v we aa sl s d i in ag nt oh se e d e p wil io tg hu e K at ph oa st i, 's w sah ri cle o m w a.riting the book, he
Alexis Rogers details the story of two men who met in
Vietnam, then returned stateside (separately) to find
themselves partners on the LA Police Force. When
JC's marriage breaks up, Kaffey finds it hard not to
show his affection for his partner. The action takes UNIVERSITY PRESSES
place during a narcotics stake-out and investigation in Indiana University Press will publish the
t 9h 15e 1 7g 5a I -ny 2 7 -Cm 4u )e ,rn z ’ o Ds n a nr io i enm l a L Cn o uc ve re/ z oa d n(Kv , ne n tig ht hu er t se " . m P ar se ts es r, $ o8 f. 5 0 se rp iob u, s -0- h Gu aym o Fr oo lu ks ll oy r e e n at ni dtl e d A c cM uo ltr ue r aM tia on n t inh a n M iY do dw lel AE mve er r i cB ae:
ness," turns his pen toward love without losing his by Joseph P. Goodwin ($9.95 pb, 0-253-20497-6,
edge and without compromising reality. The book is March). "Lacking the formal support systems, gay
comprised of three tales with three different styles: the men rely on their folklore in interacting with one
first is told in modern-day realism; the second invokes another and to relieve the pressures of belonging to a
a Noel Coward down-for-the-weekend comedy; and stigmatized group." Relating stories and jokes, this
the third travels all the way back to time of The Ara- book explores the uses of gay men’s folklore and
bian N Ti hg eh t ss t. ories in Herd of Tiny Elephants (Banned e stx ra am igin he ts s t dh eae l d wif itf her e An Ic De Ss b ine t w thee en ir t fh oe l k lw oa ry e. gays and
Books, $8.95 pb, 0- 934411-13-1) by Stan Leventhal
collectively constitute an interesting look at many BIOGRAPHIES
popular literary genres; romances, fantasies, science New in paperback: Science fiction author Samuel
fiction, horror, westerns, coming-out stories and Delaney unfolds the details of his life in The Motion
erotica are all lovingly evoked, playfully parodied, of Light in Water: Sex and Science Fiction Writing in
satirized, and turned inside-out in this groundbreak- the East Village, 1957-1965 (NAL/Plume, $8.95, 0-
ing collection of short fiction. 452-26232-1, March). In this personal memoir of a
47 November 1988
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:56 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
writer's search for self-identity, Delaney explores spective. Boughner tells you what they don’t teach in
what it meant to him to be Black and gay in the early high school history classes.
1960's. Highly recommended!
New in mass market are Citizen'Cohn (Bantam, SCIENCE FICTION
$5.50 pb, 0-553- 27893-2) by Nicholas von Hoffman The year is 1999. The earth has been devastated
and The Autobiography of Roy Cohn (St. Martin's and humanity all but wiped out. An alien life form has
Press, $4.95, 0-312-914-02-4) by Sidney Zion. Bantam chosen to rescue a few humans. Why? Find out in The
calls Citizen "the only book that tells the full story of Cliffs of Aries, a first novel by former Philadelphia Gay
Roy Cohn." The hardback publisher of Autobiogra- News writer, Thom Nickels (Aegina Press, $10.00 pb,
phy terms it "the unvarnished... real Roy Cohn." Both 0-916383-68-7, dist. by Baker & Taylor). Nickels’ novel-
are fascinating accounts of a homophobic gay man las will be published by Banned Books in May.
who died of AIDS while campaigning against gay
rights.
HUMOR
A collection of the "smartest and wittiest gay and
lesbian comics"is coming from NAL/Plume in March.
HISTORY Entitled simply Gay Comics, this anthology show-
In Out of All Time: a Gay and Lesbian History cases the talents of contributors to Gay Comix over the
(Alyson, $6.95 pb, 1-55583-104-4), author Terry course of the past year. Smart, witty, and sharp, Gay
Boughner scans the centuries from ancient Egypt to tC ho rm oi uc gs h c h thar et s e yt eh se oc fo u sr os me e o f o f m oo ud re r n m og sa ty a sl tif ue t e a s o b s se ee rn vers
modern America, examining scores of the past’s most
of the community and society-at-large. ($7.95 pb, 0-
interesting men and women from a "different" per- 452-26229-1.) Edited by Robert Triptow. O
I have a lover Original Art Cards
p by Women
full color 5x7 cards with
women’s images
free shipping on orders of
10 dozen or more
simply irresistable cards...
T™ © 1988 call or write:
Au All Images, Inc. 4 solstice cards available
48 Volume 11 Number 4
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:56 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
43
Ursula LeGuin’s "Buffalo Gals, Won't You Come people to save what's left of society."
Out Tonight" won both the 1988 World Fantasy Award And in the same issue Pat (Falling Woman) Mur-
for best novella and the Hugo for best novelette, the phy said of her work-in-progress, The City, Not Long
latter in a squeaker over Pat Murphy’s multi-award- After, "It’s set in a relatively near-future San Francisco,
winning "Rachel in Love." after a plague has wiped out most of the city’s popu-
lation and the city has been taken over by artists who
are using it as an art project... It combines a science
A fiction premise with a strong element of either fantasy
or magic realism."
For librarians and hardcore bibliophiles is the
Speaking of LeGuin, her new collection of essays, Science Fiction & Fantasy Review Annual 1988,
Dancing at the Edge of the World (Grove Press, edited by Robert Collins and Robert Latham, which
$17.95), is full of good stuff, including the commence- claims to review virtually all English-language f/sf
ment address I wish Id had. A persistent theme is the books published during the year. Available from
importance across time and cultures of telling stories, Meckler, 11 Ferry Lane West, Westport, CT 06880 for
and what supports/hinders our efforts to do it. A $65.
couple of critics have accused her of turning her back
on sf in favor of the "Eastern Literary Establishment,"
and to them she responded, "The Eastern Literary
Establishment basically makes me throw up." In a
nutshell -- yes.
Interviewed in the October Locus, Octavia Butler ACE
(Dawn, Adulthood Rites, Kindred, Wild Seed, etc.) said Wolf’s Brother, by Megan Lindholm, $3.50.
this about Daughter of Mourning, her current work- Sequel to the well-done Reindeer People, about no-
in-progress: It’s "set in a United States that is getting madic herders in ancient Lapland, developing the
steadily worse.... The character I begin with is a stories of the healer Tillu and her strange, gifted, un-
woman who has a small child and who is homeless popular son Kerlew.
and who lives in a world where certain things are
going to be expected of her if she wants to get any kind AVON
of help. One of those would be the donation of her Featherstroke, by Sydney J. Van Scyoc, price n/a.
more expendable organs. That’s the reason why more Van Scyoc is very, very good, and she hasn't had a new
people don’t go for help... My main character is actu- one for a while. 3/89.
ally the small child. She is going to wind up doing An Alien Light, by Nancy Kress, price n/a.
something she hopes will gather together enough Paperback reprint. 4/89.
49 January 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:56 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsreligion of North America," when magic has become
as ho-hum as today’s technology. U.S. rights, anyone?
DAW BOOKS
The Boy Who Was Thrown Away, by Stephanie
A SC I DEN ACE V F II DCT I O BN E N LO DVE EL N BY EA y. e sS ,m sit eh rv, i t$ o3 r. 5 0 o. f S te hqu ee l l a kto e S Mn oo tw h- eE ry , e s h, e li pn s w a h bic oh y S mn ao sw te- r
AUTHOR OF CHILDREN OF ARABLE his magic gifts, Which include both music and the
ability to change shapes.
Feminist science fiction at its best. $3.95. D Ra ou bg eh rt se or n ’so f m t uh lte i - vL oio lun m, eb y f a nJ te an sn yi f e sr er iR eso b oe fr s o tn h, e
“David Belden...writes of societies that have their shapechanging Cheysuli hasn't been long on female
similarities to our own, in his cautionary dystopian tales of characters, but this, the sixth, features the unusually
the far future..….fortunately Belden has not only done a gifted Keely, warrior-trained and determined not to be
gavroeiadte dd e sailm opfle r aensesawrecrhs . ..i n tiso neos t w ao r wshoirpk, bofu t l ihgahst aelsso- forced into an arranged marriage. |
capism, but a book to make the reader think.” The Gate of Ivory, by Doris Egan, $3.95.
Carolyn Cushman in Locus, July 1988 Theodora, an anthropology student schooled in scien-
“Well done and, if you carry work by male authors, recom- tific methods and outlook, encounters Ivory, a world
mended.” The Feminist Bookstore News, November 1988 where magic works and the powerful make their own
laws. A toss-up.
317 pp - paper -— $3.95 - NAL/SIGNET The Last Wizard, by Tanya Huff, $3.95. In this
sequel to Child of the Grove, the Last Wizard is Crystal,
raised for a mission now completed, without purpose
BANTAM/SPECTRA in a world increasingly suspicious of wizardry. 3/89.
The Master of Chaos, by Terry A. Adams, $4.50.
ing sequel to Firebird pits the personal — the renegade Sequel to Sentience, about Lady Hanna of the tele-
Firebird is pregnant with twins — against intra- and pathic D'neerans, whose abilities have proven crucial
interplanetary intrigue involving her family, the in "first contact" situations. 4/89.
faltering rulers of Naetai. Warning: the nasties in this Spell Singers, ed. by Alan Bard Newcomer, $3.50.
one are grade-A sadists, and several scenes contain A very fine collection of (mostly) longer stories about
genuinely stomach-churning violence. swordswomen and sorceresses, two by Mercedes
Still Life, by E. E. Horlak, price n/a. E. E. Horlak Lackey, two by Marion Zimmer Bradley, and one each
is really Sheri S. Tepper, and this is a contemporary by Ru Emerson and Jennifer Roberson. Roberson’s in
tale of "dark sorcery," hinging on protagonist Sarah particular is a well-crafted, absorbing work from the
Chenowith’s ability to use the forgotten powers of her world of the Cheysuli. The allegedly Oregon-based
Hopi ancestors. editor's name sure sounds like a pseudonym to me.
asi
CENTURY
Unquenchable Fire, by Rachel Pollack, £11.95. I
have no idea whether this apparently cloth title is
available in the U.S. U.S.-born Pollack lives in the
Netherlands and has written tarot books as well as DOUBLEDAY/FOUNDATION
f/sf stories. According to Locus, this novel is set a The Healer’s War, by Elizabeth Scarborough,
generation or so after a "massive spiritual revolution $17.95 cl. Well- reviewed contemporary fantasy about
which made New Age neo-paganism the dominant an Army nurse in Vietnam, a journey through the
January 1989 50
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:56 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
Special Requests at
QA
the Terminist Bookstore
horrors of war and the strangeness of "normal" life
back home. I have a copy in hand and hope to make It’s been the season-
some original comments next issue. finely crafted, creative
titles. The following titles
POPULAR LIBRARY/QUESTAR were collected by a crew
Fires of Nuala, by Katharine Eliska Kimbriel, j of real connoisseurs. If
$3.95. A satisfying blend of intrigue, adventure, char- | reading these brings
acter study, and romance, set on Nuala, whose trinium others to mind, jot them
mines are the source of both fabulous wealth and the down on a postcard and
radiation that makes human reproduction harder
with Fea loc ah t e rp a s Fs ain ctg o r g , e n be yr a t Mio en li. s a T O CR . Michaels, $3.50. She Came Too Often
Another of the Skyrider’s straight-ahead space adven- DDykeu Isnvtasyion’ss Dinner ) J
t icu sr e os, u t i n t o W rh ii dc h t h t eh e h uv mill aa nin s r a ca er e o fr ig ah llt - t wo h-l oif e hr a- vli eke fanat- Lesbian Huns W
Lesbian Hons
genetically adapted to life in freefall. A good read for
train, bus, and subway travel. Shangorilla & Linda (from Prickly Heat Press)
Yogurt for Cats
Places of Interest for Sex
id When I Am a Lesbian I Shall Wear Purple
Memory Aboard
Gray Matter
Those great safe-sex titles: Daughters of a Coral Dam
Blood Games, by Chelsea Quinn Yarbro, $4.95. A and Neon Rubbers Glow in the Dark
predecessor of A Flame in Byzantium, concerning the Dusty’s Cream of Wheat Diner
SR ano cm t'Ga en r m an ino .blewoman Olivia and the vampire ToLwaerds abn Aipaolnogy o f O Wormeannges Ya
The Lady of Han-Gilen, by Judith Tarr, $3.95. PMagaont Mheedircawtionist cAhE
Tarr’s earlier "Hound and Falcon" trilogy was very
well-reviewed, as was the first book of the "Avaryan Battered Poems, Shattered Lives
Rising" fantasy trilogy, The Hall of the Mountain King. Totaled Woman
What they lacked was a focal woman character or two Daughters of a Corporate Woman
to pique the interest of a feminist reviewer. Advance Inside Cigars
p.r. and back-cover blurbs on this new arrival, the How to Be a Channel and Still Be Free
second book of "Avaryan Rising," are intriguing Graphics from Dykes-
indeed. More next issue! and More Dykes to Watch
Snow White and Rose Red, by Patricia C. Wrede, Out For. Special thanks to
$15.95 cl. A retelling of the fairy tale classic, set in the gang who collected
Elizabethan England, where Snow White and Rose these titles. Have a happy (e
ReFd arae tewor sisiteres l.iv ing o4n t/he e8dge 9 of . t he foOrest of -a Cn Sd cheerful new year! s. f
o
Volume 11 Number 5 51 January 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:56 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
new canadian/latin american women’s magazine
revista
Aquelarre
magazine
Canada— "Illegal gathering of witches." They used to
call us witches. What do they call us now? Arpilleristas,
weavers, union leaders, women in exile, political prisoners,
mothers of the disappeared, artists...….
Who Are We?
We are a group of Canadian and Latin American
Women.
among W uit sh h t ah ve e p exas ps ei rn ig e n co ef d t ai m be l, e n t dh ie n g L a ot fin t wA om e cr ui lc -ans The magazine will be published quarterly in Eng-
tures. We belong both here and there. lish and Spanish and will include interviews, testimo-
The Canadian women among us share an interest nies, poems and short stories, news, social and
in Latin American issues. political issues, women’s issues, women’s stories,
W e e A h a cv one c em rnan y a b ot uh ti n g sos c ii an l rc eo am lim tyo n a: nd the special humo r T, h ep h fo it ro sg tr a ip sh suy e a wn id l l v bis eu a pl u bar lit s. hed in April. Articles
way in which it affects women. a inlr te ea rd vy ie w s sc h e wd iu tl he d C hfo ilr e a np u b auli tc ha oti ro n I s ai bn ec ll u d Ae l l ee nx dc el ,u s i Ov se car
T Aw n o a wla an rg eu na eg se ss : o fE n tg hli es h v aa rn id ed S cp uan lti us rh e. s of the winner Argentinian actress Norma Aleandro (The Of-
Americas. ficial Story), Nicaraguan revolutionary and poet Daysi
Samora and Mexican singer Amparo Ochoa.
shape o o u A r id de es nir tie t i et so . explore together the elements that Canadian artist Clare Kudjunzik and U.S. artist Lisa
Kokin will be displaying paintings, collages, batik
work and sculpture while talking about their ex-
Why a Magazine? periences in Latin America. Aquelarre will be featuring
o We want to open dialog with all women who the writings of Chilean Diamela Eltit and Argentinian
share our interest in Latin American women’s issues. Sylvia Plager and Angelica Gorodicher. Honduran
e We want to know about you—mothers, sisters, ex-desaparecida Maria Ines Murillo talks about what it
friends—who live in Latin American or left for far- is like to be in the hands of her country’s secret police.
away countries. The first issue will be printed with assistance
We want to know about you who have just form OXFAM. Available to bookstores on consign-
arrived in this country. We share your experience. ment. $5/issue. Terms not sent. Subscriptions are
e We want to know about you who have lived in C$18/6yr. Or6der fr7om Aqu8elarre, . PO Box 65535O Sta. F,
Canada for a time and how you have evolved and Vancouver BC, Canada V5N 5K6. Phone: 604-251-
changed.
January 1989 52.
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:56 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
Two very interesting books from The Feminist The Women’s Press/Canada’s new collection of
Press: First published in London in 1930, Not So short fiction is Imagining Women by the Second,
Quiet: Stepdaughters of War by Helen Zenna Smith Second Story Collective. (A name that sounds like a
was awarded the Prix Severigne as "the novel most story in and of itself, but one that isn’t told in this
calculated to promote international peace." Not So volume...) The writers in Imagining Women address
Quiet is an autobiographical novel looking at war aging, childhood sexual abuse, community, sexual
through the eyes of the young women who served as identity, family relationships and culture, using writ-
volunteer ambulance drivers. The bite of this funny, ing as a tool to confront and challenge the assump-
bitter novel comes from Smith’s outrage at the sense- tions of contemporary society. Contributors include
lessness of war, at her country’s complacent patrio- Marlene Nourbese Philip (see Harriet in Small Press),
tism and at her own daily contact with the blood of the Claire Harris, Claudia Casper, Mary Lou C. Debas-
wounded. Rowdy high adventure and a perversely sige, J.A. Hamilton, Aline Burke and Ann Decter. $9.95
comforting read in these trying times. My choice for pb, 0-88961-124-6. The Women’s Press, 229 College St.,
Inauguration Eve reading... Smith is the pseudonym #204, Toronto ONT, Canada MST 1R4. Dist. by U. or
of Evadne Price (1896-1985), a novelist, journalist, Toronto, Inland and Bookpeople.
playwright and children’s author. Following the
success of Not So Quiet..., she wrote four additional
Helen Zenna Smith novels: Women of the Aftermath,
Shadow Women, Luxury Ladies, and They Lived with Me.
$9.95 pb, 0-935312-82-X; $26.95 cl, 0- 935312-97-8,
March.
My Mother Gets Married is The Feminist Press’
second book by Moa Martinson (1890-1964), the popu-
lar Swedish writer who wrote largely about the
struggles of working class Swedish women in her own
and earlier generations. My Mother Gets Married is
Martinson’s most famous novel and is the first volume
of her acclaimed autobiographical trilogy. "Originally
issued in Sweden in 1936, the novel is told through the
honest eyes of Mia, a feisty and resourceful girl-child Post-Apollo Press announces a new collection of
of a family caught in the intense degradation of poetry by Etel Adnan, The Arab Apocalypse which
poverty. Martinson recalls and recreates in Mia the promises to be her most exciting work yet. "An immer-
ways in which poor children survive powerlessness sion into a rapture of chaos clawing toward destiny
and confusion." $9.95 pb, 0-935312-81-1; $24.95 c|], 0- and nullified hope refusing its zero. It is also the
935312-99-4. journey of a soul through the cartography of a global
53 January 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:56 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
immediacy rarely registered by maps, replete with stores, no minimum. They also have the last 100
signposts like hieroglyphs in a storm of shrapnel and complete boxed sets of Quest: A Feminist Quarterly, if
broken glass. Above all it is a book that...rivet(s) the you know a library or collector with the good sense to
. sensibility to the Middle East condition like a book of want them. All 20 volumes for $100. The Feminist
changes." Post-Apollo Press (35 Marie St., Sausalito Institute, PO Box 30563, Bethesda MD 20814.
CA 94965), $13.95 pb, 0-942996-09-7. Dist. IN & BP.
Women’s Self-Defense: A Complete Guide to
The Feminist Institute offers several new pam- Assault Prevention by the Los Angeles Commission
phlets including The Croning Celebration by Jacque- on Assaults Against Women is the culmination of
lyne Gentry and Faye Seifert on rite-of-passage fifteen years of teaching self-defense workshops and
celebrations for women turning fifty ($2.00, 10 pp, learning from the women who take the workshops.
0-916516-11-4); Sexual Harassment and Employment Written for women of all physical abilities, the book
Discrimination Against Women, "A consumer hand- covers topics including "What is Self-Defense?," "Vi-
book for women who are harmed and for those who olence Against Women Today," "Misconceptions and
care," a short, concise look at the many ramifications Realities" which includes facts on rape and battering,
of sexual harassment in the workplace that is espe- "Awareness," "Basic Safety Strategies," "Assertjve-
cially good on the emotional ramifications though a ness," "Physical Techniques," "Emotions," "If You Are
bit less sensitive on lesbian issues than I'd have ex- a Survivor," "Double Jeopardy" (for women who are
pected ($4.75, 22pp, 0-916516-10-6); and Protection Deaf or differently-abled), and more. Price to book-
Against Infection: For Women Using Alterative In- stores is $8.00. LACAAW sells the books for $10, but
semination, an excellent and informative (and cau- stores are free to set their own prices. 106 pp, 11" x 8
tionary) look at the possibilities of contacting AIDS 1/2". No ISBN. Order from LACAAW, Women’s Cen-
and STDs via AI. It stresses that most AI clinics are ter at Council House, 543 N. Fairfax Ave., Los Angeles
profit oriented and that many fail to do testing that CA 90036.
would protect women and disqualify donors and out-
lines tests and procedures to keep risks to a minimum. Cranehill Press has published The Wisewoman’s
Lesbian-inclusive and turkey-baster positive. Worth Sacred Wheel of the Year, sequel to The Wisewoman.
the hassle of ordering pamphlets. ($4.00, 10 pp, 0- Both books feature a series of short stories about a
916516-12-2.) Other pamphlets include Prevention of brother and sister (from a classic, alienated middle-
Violence Against Women ($3.00, 25pp), Fighting class family) who meet and become friends with Rose-
Back: A Self Defense Handbook ($2.50, 16 pp), mary, an old wisewoman/ witch living aloneina cabin
Myths About Rape ($.75). 40% discount to book- in the woods—and continue that friendship against
LESBIAN ETHICS uses lesbian experience as a
starting point for redefining ethics. The overall
thesis is that the values from anglo-european
ethical philosophy undermine rather than
promote lesbian connection. Challenging control
in lesbian relationships, the book develops an
ethics relevant to lesbians under oppression —
one which avoids both blaming the victim and
victimism, which embraces the spirit of lesbian
philosophy I can relate to. resistance, and which encourages plurality.
INSTITUTE OF LESBIAN STUDIES
“lesbianism, the theory.” 1P.1.SO.. BOX 60242
PALO ALTO, CA 94306
January 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:56 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
parental disapproval. Rosemary offers the children saying good-bye, they learn unexpected things about
many ideas —from vegetarianism to the cycle of the themselves, their histories, their passions. Franco and
year, to trees that communicate—and the notion that Thad give each other, and the reader, the gift of
things are often not as simple as they appear to be. loving—without sentimentality or illusion—in the
Illustrated, 48 pp, staple-stitched. $3.50, 40% discount presence of death. Joan Lindau has written in intimate
to bookstores. Cranehill Press, 708 Comfort Rd., book, soft with the details of daily routine and caring,
Spencer NY 14883. Also distributed by New Leaf. lucid in its portrayal of hard emotional realities,
straightforward and honest in its telling." $8.95 pb,
0-932379-59-1, April.
Firebrand has three Spring titles, The Big Mama
Stories by Shay Youngblood, Letting in the Night, a LETTING IN
novel by Joan Lindau, and Metamophosis: Reflec-
tions on Recovery by Judith McDaniel and has also
assumed publishing responsibilities for Beth Brants
A Gathering of Spirit: A Collection by North Amer-
ican Indian Women and Yours in Struggle: Three
Feminist Perspectives on Anti-Semitism and Racism
by Elly Bulkin, Minnie Bruce Pratt, and Barbara Smith.
"Set in the Black small-town south of the early
‘60's, The Big Mama stories capture the richness of
being raised by a community of women. Seen through
the eyes of the girlchild mothered by her ‘Big Mamas’,
the daily lives of ordinary incredible women are dy-
namically portrayed. Included are Fannie Mae, the
narrator's real mother, whose reputation for living
helps keep her memory alive; Miss Corine, preserver
o Mf i s sb e a Lu ilt yy , s ‘fe ucr ne nt ys a wn od m elo nc ’ a l w g ho os s sip h; a r a en d a M bei dss inT o m th ea n bd ig [a UMe r icZan: In dLiani l ue
white house on Sixth Avenue. These and other Black
women in Shay Youngblood’s spunky first book, "Moving from addiction and alienation to greater
women related by blood and history, offer a legacy of self-empowerment, author and political activist
joy and survival in the midst of hard times." $8.95 pb, Judith McDaniel travels the road to recovery in this
0-932379-57-5, 112 pp, April. insightful, revealing book. In a long essay exploring
"Letting in the Light is the tender story of two her own recovery process from alcoholism, she ex-
women in love—separated by geography, time, and amines her experience of Twelve Step Programs from
their own decisions—who revive their relationship in a feminist perspective, raising questions about both
the face of one woman's terminal illness. As Frances the benefits and the problems as she encounters them.
Cole and Thaddea Owens confront the inevitability of Her poetry covers the emotion turf, places seen by
Volume 11 Number 5 55 January 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:56 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
many but rarely observed as acutely. At a time when
women in increasing numbers are struggling to come
j ESS to terms with chemical dependencies, Metamophosis
WAÆLL S opens up new space for understanding and growth."
$7.95 pb, 0-932379-61-3, 64 pp, April.
Author of THE DRESS/THE SHARDA STORIES The covers of both A Gathering of Spirit and
brand’s publication. Both have been reprinted on acid-
free paper as a sign of Firebrand’s commitment to their
long-term value. When A Gathering of Spirit was
first published in 1982 it created a wave in both the
feminist and Native American publishing worlds.
been heard in print. Five years and several editions
later, the ripples are still being felt. A Gathering of
Spirit remains one of the single best sources for ex-
periencing the vibrancy and breadth of Indian
women’s writing. $9.95 pb, 0-932379-55-9; $20.95 cl,
0-932379-56-7.
Yours in Struggle is as relevant now as it was
when originally published in 1984. It addresses diffi-
i lives and S T read "TWO pened because we were able to talk to each other in the
: and wept a en nd t w ata s Q g ul ra d . l i vH ee s,w S n utice f (b Mi ar is c nt k n igp e l r a Boce ru, u n cd ed e ss Pp — rit awe t t )ho , u i r t A e f v r oe Cr -Ay h m rd eii rsf itf ce ai nare n n (-t Br a a rid bise an re at d i t Si e mSs o i tua hn t )d ,herner
Ashkenazi Jew (Elly Bulkin). Each of us speaks only
for herself, and we do not necessarily agree with each
other. Yet we believe our cooperation on this book
FILLEN TLUS
TosHià E $8.95 pb, 0-932379-53-2.
Firebrand Books, 141 The Commons, Ithaca NY
14850. Distributed to bookstores by Inland, Book-
people and The Distributors.
| fu or excitement. for geod
_ writing-Yeu wont be disap- Make some room on the shelves (or build some
_ peinted” Sandy Boucher, more cases!). Naiad Press has (already) scheduled 24
jess WELLS au t1h2or6 Opf.g sH..é a r$tw7o.9m5en.
ISBN; 9:9407- -00- Hegia
Fire by Jane Rule (September), The Beverly Malibu
Now Availa b` l eG iTohvranoungi'hs RBoooomkpeople, Inland, tK ha et h e pr ui ln pe rV a. cF lo asr sr ie cs t h($ r1 e6 e. 9 5 oc ml, nO c t bo yb e Mr), ca r e Hp ar si tn int sof
- e T W e a r h g
LIBRARY B BOOKS 584 Castro #224 San Francisco, CA 94114 (August), There’s Something I’ve Been Meaning to
Tell You on coming out to your children (October) and
January 1989 56 Volume 11 Number 5
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:56 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
Pleasure by Robbi Sommers which Barbara Grier,calls pb, 0-941483-30-4) and South of the Line, a second
"a really erotic book" (July) as well as new novels by novel by Catherine Ennis (To the Lightning), an adven-
Camarin Grae (July) and Valerie Taylor (August). In ture tale about a penniless and homeless governess
the meantime, 1989 opens up with the 15th anniver- and her wealthy, widowed, mysterious benefactress,
sary edition of Dolores Klaich’s Woman Plus Woman set in the Union-occupied South during the later part
and a new novel by Gail Pass, Surviving Sisters. of the Civil War. Federal soldiers commandeer their
riverboat and the two are put ashore (with two ser-
vants) in near wilderness conditions only to be stalked
by a brutal gang of river pirates.... Or as Naiad says,
"Non-stop action, romance and suspense." $8.95 pb,
0-941483-29-0.
Surviving Sisters by Gail Pass (Zoe's Book) offers
two sisters grappling the loss of both of their
brothers—one to death in Vietnam, the other to sanc-
tuary and then death in Canada—and their war of
attrition against their father’s refusal to honor both
sons. Irena’s attraction to her archaeologist-employer
Maggie Leland brings the emotional war to a new
front. "Intensely erotic, complex and intelligent." $8.95
pb, 0-941483-16-9, February.
Naiad’s other two February novels are Of Love
and Glory by Evelyn Kennedy (Cherished Love), a
depiction of two lovers caught in the passion of love
amid the conflagration of blitz-torn England ($8.95 pb
0-941483-32-0) and Clicking Stones by Nancy Tyler
Glenn, "a unique and fabulous tale encompassing our
own times and [moving] into the 21st Century... a
fascinating, erotic, compulsively readable saga with
First published in 1974, Woman Plus Woman New Age themes about the potential that resides
was one of the first truly fine lesbian books I sold as a within us all" $8.95 pb, 0-941483-31-2.
bookseller. Klaich’s profiles of the lives and loves of a In March Naiad will release two first novels: In
distinguished group of lesbians included Renee Raging Mother Mountain by Pat Emmerson and In
Vivien, Natalie Clifford Barney, Romaine Brooks, Every Port by Karin Kallmaker. Raging Mother
Radclyffe Hall, and Gertrude Stein as well as the lives Mountain Irene Aguilar learns to find comfort with
of dozens of contemporary lesbians. $9.95 pb, 0- the L-word, Arliss finds her way out of her hideous
941483-28-2. Naiad’s other January titles include Slow mistake of a marriage, and they and the librarian in
Dancing at Miss Polly’s by Sheila (Faultline) Ortiz Mobley, Oregon meet up with Furosa Firechild and
Taylor, in her poètic debut, rich with storytelling and her Amazon dream of Wonderland on the sides of
Taylor's own particular humor and sensibility ($7.95 Raging Mother Mountain. Says Naiad, "Exceptionally
57 January 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:56 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
gifted first-novelist Pat Emmerson has portrayed for we've been waiting for: original, illuminating, com-
us the authentic lives of lesbian women, and, in Furosa prehensive and inspiring. I want everyone to read it!")
Firechild, one of the most comic, outrageous, and to Gloria Anzaldúa ("In a time when much of what is
magnificient characters ever to stride onto the pages written by non-colored women fails to touch me,
of a lesbian novel." $8.95 pb 0-941483-35-5. In Every Lesbian Ethics is a politically engaged philosophy I
Port, set in the San Francisco of the late seventies, can relate to, can identify with.") to Naomi Littlebear
offers "a sexy page-turner of a novel" exploring the Morena ("This book encourages compassion for lesbi-
conflicts of a well-heeled executive who tries to ans among lesbians and I say ‘It’s about time!’ Above
believe she’s "only having a few flings" until she falls all ít is brimming with vision and is so full of heart.")
in love with the alluring young hotel executive who to Elana Dykewoman ("This is a book in which your
lives in the condo across the hall. $8.95 pb, 0-941483- best friend discusses and argues with you until 3 a.m.,
34-7. and you finally fall asleep delighted to be a lesbian,
able to dream ʻlesbianism, the theory.) $14.95 pb,
0-934903-03-4. Institute of Lesbian Studies/ILS, PO
Box 60242, Palo Alto CA 94306. Bookstores order from
Inland and Bookpeople. |
Gaia's Guide 1989 is at the printers as I write this
and should be at distributors as you read it.... This
year’s edition includes all of the U.S.A, Canada,
Europe, Australia, and New Zealand. Lots of great
new information on Israel, Japan, Thailand, and
Lesbian Bedtime Stories (gathered by Terry Yugoslavia. As usual, the information centers on
i LW " sT e so h blo i i isd g a r h n o t t w h , Bi) c eak dfi s tf iiv mrd o m elu u e i m n S g tm e , o ri wd ia e- ni sM l d l a h r p a ac lr sh w o v a byif ed sr ee o n m l eb s ce b rdT i et ao ai nu tm e-g deh p or tD oseo i a t v d i ee i v mn e g . -B o to hk as t. cg h suar o l po u p u s pe op rs rs , a t c a t pn siu t ed ib ro vl nio ic e cr a r eg t ssia , on n ai rnsz e,a d st ti s o aaw un t ri ts t, aoc nr h n tb b sa eo ,r y as sr a,d n a s dn e, md wb e o rc ool g mu k eb es ns nt c, o ’y sr eg s cu a, ene n s dmt t e e v rd sici- tim
mp eo vuw ene rir t y ie da sn . ad yI t i n i ps np c ri lr oue d b e lst e h m e lo n -l sges o-b t lei va rn im n ( g a rn ,o d m s af one mcm e,i e n i s s tt fo) r a i nec so t m aa- sb you ,t some a a lon n cd d a l lyg qua y it r/ e el se es a ab r i cfa hn ew e d c e un fp ot c re or m s m, i n al g xo it m s e v u o e mnf t s am , c c a t uil o r o a .o c r y Ed ..ae ..cr h T r hae ers o e u a c r l ac i sse -s
Je Sr l uio ndt i ei n c ga 1, 9 S 8a c 9n a . d l e " P l So rpt os e s c p i eo a rf l o uth sou " m b soo hor ok. p" s st T o aro reu esg h f i nr D vo io m tv e e d n i o ts w o o tf t ahf ke r er o i u n 4gg 2h % a Bs wi rc a i s t ii sn c hat le l r e en d qu a t iT vio h an le ea nl G t l i e r os l fb s’ i a gn G i ru lg i du e si , cd oe ua tb sdo e o blk i ug. th I t t tfs hu elf i s hr ps uot mo f oe rd i o t n dio i dn t nh ’e t
discount and free shipping on prepaid orders of 10+ survive the Atlantic crossing. Edited by Sandy Horn,
b "So to rk us g. g C lih ne gc "k s s h m opa sy a b re e p ofo fst e- rd ea dt e d u p t o t o M 5a 0r %ch d 1 is5 ct oh u. nt plus p Du iDsb tl ris ibh iue td es d b y tt o G ba ri oa o, k si$ t9 o. br5 e0 s p bub y, 3 Int8 l4 a n op dg , s , B r o0 o- k9 ps4 e7 o9 p2 .l- e2 ,2 0 T- h24 e. O
free shipping, payment due in 60 days. Order from
Tough Dove Books, PO Box 528, Little River CA 95456.
No phone, but prompt bookrate shipment. Tough
Dove is also distributed by Inland and Bookpeople at
standard discounts.
Sarah Lucia Hoagland’s Lesbian Ethics: Toward
New Values is out and about. No copy in hand as we
write this, but it’s getting rave reviews from a number
of reputable sources, from Alix Dobkin ("This is what From Everywoman’s Almanac/The Women’s Press
58
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:56 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
Disabled, Female, and Proud: Stories of Ten award, I'd nominate this book right off. Written for
Women with Disabilities by Harilyn Rousso offers a adolescents, but an excellent addition to any book-
message to teen-age girls growing up with disabilities: store's disabilities section. $9.95 pb, 0-930958-04-7.
"You do not have to be or become any one thing 30% discount for 5+ books and well worth the hassle.
because you are a woman or because you have a Exceptional Parent Press, PO Box 657 Kenmore Sta-
disability. Making choices—about school, work, tion, Boston MA 02215.
family, and love—is what being disabled, female and
proud is all about." The women portrayed are em- If you stock "armchair" or actual travel books,
ployed in a number of fields from court interpreter to consider Walks in Gertrude Stein’s Paris: Five Walk-
ing Tours for the Literary Traveller by Mary Ellen
Jordan Haight. The book features enough women to
be satisfying and points out all the successive loca-
tions of Shakespeare and Company and La Maison des
Amis des Livres, the various homes of Adrienne Mon-
nier and Sylvia Beach, as well as the homes of Zelda
Fitzgerald, Natalie Clifford Barney, Colette, et al.
Shelve next to Women of the Left Bank. Published by
Gibbs Smith/Peregrine Smith Books $11.95 pb, 0-
` STO WRIIETSH O DFI S ATBENIL I TWIEOSMEN 87905-268-6.
The Latin American Literary Review Press’ Fall
list includes two books of interest. In Women of
Smoke Chilean poet Marjorie Agosin portrays a
variety of women, women’s situations, realities and
reactions ("Her mouth a perverse stretch of drought.")
art therapist to civil rights investigator to neurochem- with strong, sure-handed poetry. Translated by
ist. Each story describes the woman’s job, includes a Naomi Lindstrom. Bilingual edition, $10.95 pb, 0-
dp eh so ct ro ig br esa p h th eo f t rh ae inr in w go r nk ei cn eg s s ai rn y a f op ra r tt hic eu l a jor b ,w o hr el rd , disa- 9 H3 u5 b4 e8 r0 m-3 a4 n- X i. s E an c clo os lle ed c t iG onar d oe fn sb ty or ieA sn g re il ci hn a w M itu hñ iz h- istorical
bility and its particular effects on her life and tells a images of Spanish and Mexican culture (helpfully
bit about her growing up years. Women portrayed footnoted by the translator) by a writer/scholar born
include Black, Hispanic, and white women from a in Spain and raised in Mexico in a community of
variety of class backgrounds. Most of the women talk refugees from the Spanish Civil War. She writes as
about growing up in their particular communities as both an insider with an intimate knowledge of Mexi-
well. If there was a "feminist anthology of the year" can history and mythology, and as an outsider who
Volume 11 Number 5 59 January 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:56 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
against women and against children, the American
Nancy Dupree: Indian Movement, leadership, the women’s move-
ments both white and world-wide, parenting, values,
Selected Writings dignity and respect, women’s lives and her own... A
edited by Jacquelyn Dobson strong, tough book. Over the next year Maracle will
also publish two poetry books and a collection of short
Nancy Dupree’s two recordings on Folk- stories. Her earlier book Bobbi Lee: Indian Rebel (a col-
ways Records® went a long way towards put- laborative work) was published in 1975. I Am Woman
ting the sound of black dialect on the ears of was a bestseller at the Montreal Book Fair. 40% dis-
America. count to bookstores. $10.95 pb, 0-921576-00-5. Order
Nancy pulled no punches when it came direct from Write-On Press, Box 86606, North Vancou-
to the way black women are treated, both by ver BC V7L 4L2.
the establishment and within their own sub-
culture. She knew what she wanted for her Honour the Sun by Ruby Slipperjack is told in the
daughter and other young black women and voice of a ten year old girl. It is the fictionalized story
men. of growing up in a small, impoverished Native com-
Now available for the first time in book munity on the Canadian National Railroad line. Order
form, the thoughts, hopes, tirades, and from Pemmican Publications, 411-504 Main St., Win-
dreams of Nancy Dupree. $10.00 paper nipeg MAN R3B 1B8, Canada.
$20.00 cloth
SkyLark, The second volume of Cherokee writer Barbara
Smith's trilogy Renewal: Teoni’s Giveaway is out. In
Publishing Co. the first volume (Renewal: The Prophecy of Manu, $9.95
213 Pond View Heights Rochester, N.Y. 14612 pb, 0-919441-18-1), Teoni, a contemporary young Na-
tive girl is abducted and taken to live with the Ani-
senses herself doubly exiled, as a Spaniard and a Jew. shoni, an ancient mythical people who live under the
Translated by Lois Parkinson Zamora. $11.50 pb, 0- sea. While among them she and the child she bears are
935480-34-X. Order from LALRF, 2300 Palmer $t., taught the spiritual values common to all Native
Pittsburgh PA 15218. people by the Anishoni Elders. In Teoni’s Giveaway
Teoni leaves the security and depths of the Pacific
Rich Like Us, Nayantara Sahgal’s novel set in the Ocean to return to the uncertainty of the land of her
darkening universe of New Delhi during Indira birth to share her learning with her people and others
Gandhi's Emergency (1976-77) offers the effects of the battling the destruction of our planet. $10.95 pb, 0-
experiences on two friends, Sonali and Rose, one In- 9191441-19X. Theytus Books.
dian, the other Cockney English. New Directions (80 Theytus also has a series of children’s books in-
Eighth Avenue, NY NY 10011) $8.95 pb, 0-8112-1078-2. cluding Mirrna and the Marmots by Peggy Capek
New Directions other Fall titles included paperback ($4.95 pb, 0-919441-03-3), a story involving two en-
and cloth editions of H.D.: Selected Poems edited by dangered species—Vancouver Island white nosed
Louis M. Martz ($8.95 pb, 0-8112-1066-9; $18.95 c|, Marmots and Fairies and how they help each other to
0-8112-1065-0) and New Selected Poems of Stevie survive and, in so doing, help themselves as well;
Smith ($7.95 pb, 0-8112-1068-5; $18.95 cl, -1067-7). Kwulasulwut: Stories from the Coast Salish by Ellen
White($6.95 c], 0-919441-04-1), a collection of five sto-
Lee Maracle’s I Am Woman is a twenty-year jour- ries translated into English portraying a world of Na-
ney sorting through and integrating issues of colonial- tive spirituality, co-operation, respect and an sense of
ism, racism, love, mothering, the effects of a oneness with self and nature; The Princess and the
generation of child-stealing, homophobia, violence Sea-Bear and Other Tsimshian Stories by Joan Sko-
January 1989 60
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:56 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
gan ($4.59 pb, 0-9631360-05), a collection of eight intense stories Sans Souci has been slowly making it’s
Tsimshian legends which pay tribute to the heritage of way down from Canada. Born in the Caribbean and a
the Metlakatla people and the Tsimshian’s continuing resident of Toronto for the past 18 years, Brand is
relationship with the surrounding sea and rocky writer well-known to Canadian feminists, having
shores (for young adults); and two books by Jeannette published short stories in Fireweed, Canadian
Armstrong (April Raintree) Neekna and Chemai, a Women's Studies, and Stories by Canadian Women,
fictional story portraying what life may have been like poetry in The Penguin Book of Caribbean Verse and co-
for two young girls in the 1800's and Enwhisteetkwa: authored a non-fiction work, Rivers Have Sources, Trees
Walk in Water, another fictionalized recreation an Have Roots—Speaking of Racism. She also has five books
eleven year old girl’s life in 1860, including her first of poetry including Chronicles of the Hostile Sun and the
forthcoming No Language is Neutral. She's currently
working on The Lives of Black Working Women in On-
Neekna and Chemai tario—An Oral History. $10.95 pb, 0-88795-072-8;
ne Armut 9 $24.95 cl, 0-88795-073-6. Williams-Wallace Publishers
also has Libby Oughton’s collection of poetry Getting
RENEWAL the Housework Done for the Dance, a rowdy collec-
T eio n iLs G IGVEiycawAy a:vi BOOR TW < TWO tion of work by the publisher who keeps Ragweed
Press and Gynergy Books thriving. Williams-Wallace
Publishers, 192 Cobourg St, Stratford ONT N5A 3E1.
Hopefully at Inland by the time this arrives in the
mail.
Heinemann offers two great new women’s titles
in their Caribbean Writers Series: Ti Marie by Valerie
Belgrave and Harriet’s Daughter, the winner of the
1988 Casa de las Americas Prize, by Marlene
Nourbese Philip.
By Bar para Smith Harriet’s Daughter is an excellent young-adult,
coming-of-age novel about two Caribbean /Canadian
contact with non-Indian people. $4.95 pb, 0-919441- girls, one born in Canada, the other recently arrived
12-2. All well-illustrated, beautiful books. against her will, and their commitment to each other
The word "Theytus" translates as "preserving for as they make their way toward adulthood. Very real-
the purpose of handing down." Since 1981 Theytus istic about teen problems dealing with conservative
Books has published a wide range of adult and child- adults, about the real world of runaways, and finding
ren’s novels, Native history, culture, politics and edu- understanding adult help when it’s needed. Rich
cation, making authentic and accurate Native with respect for culture, independence, and interde-
material available in books and videos. 40% discount pendence. The title is from the game of "Escape the
for 5+ books. Theytus Books, Box 218, Pentiton BC, Slavers" that Margaret instigates (to no small amount
Canada V2A 6K3. 604-493-7181. of trouble from the grown-ups) based on tales of Har-
Toronto writer Dionne Brand’s collection of thick, riet Tubman. Stock it in YA, to be sure, but don’t forget
Volume 11 Number 5 61
January 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:56 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
cational Books, 70 Court Street, Portsmouth NH
FROM JUST US BOOKS, INC. 03801. 800-541- 2086.
BL A " C K M H O forI NST TO HRY Maria W Mo im ese n (: P a T trh ie a r cL ha yst aC no dl o n Ay c c ub my u lG ate ir om n a n o n f e am Win ois rt ls d
“49 important black achievers are Scale, Veronika Bennholdt-Thomson, and Claudia von
s inpo vt itli ig nh gt e fd o. r mAt at tr ..a .”ctive and Werlhof examines how capitalism's penetration of
for Young Readers rural societies undermines women’s position in par-
AFRO-BETS Book of Black ticular, may reduce life expectancy (as in India), im-
6H 4e r o pe ps , f 4r -o com lo r A c ot vo e rZ , 2-color poses on women the double load of housewife and
interior with photos. $7.95 peasant, and finds that even where women have been
plus $1.75 shipping organized into labor unions or co-operative forms of
AfoFrR O P-rBeE-TscShAoBoCle r &s 1 2:3 production, women’s special burdens of patriarchal
BOOKS 24 pp, 4-color, oppression and economic exploitation often persist.
f“ lT$ $ eh3 1 x. . e 9 7 5 5 A efe s iha r rc oi h p - bp B oi ep n dtl g s iu s sK i td os P4Z r5e es5d s.- 6 P . r e Ds is s, t r i$ b1 u5 t.0 e0 d p bb y, I0 n- l8 a6 n2 d3 2 a- n45 d6 - T4; h e$ 4 H5. u0 m0 a ncl i, t i e0 s-86232-
t h e form the
letters of the alphabet and Humanities Press also has the U.S. distribution of
numbers 1 through 10.”
Life Histories of African Women edited by Patricia
S Be ln acd k s Hel if s- ta od rd yr e Msse od n t hst a bm rp oe cd h u re en .velope for free W. Romero, a volume containing seven life histories of
women from different geographical areas and from
varying cultural backgrounds. Many of the women’s
° 301 Main St. Suite 22—24 • Orange, NJ 07050 lives were affected by the European colonial presence,
to sell it to all the rest of us who never got enough others reflect on the influence of Islam. Academic,
adolescent girls novels with power in them. $7.50 pb, rather than popular reading, but accessible. Ashfield
0-435-98924-3. Press, $12.50 pb, 0-984660-05-8; $29.95 cl, 0-948660-04-
Ti Marie is set in eighteenth century Trinidad as X.
long-neglected Trinidad gains new importance in the
power games of European empires. Racial and politi- Afro-Bets ABC and Afro-Bets 123, created by
cal conflicts intensify and violence is in the very air. Cheryl Hudson with Wade Hudson, are two early-
Yet, against the encroaching evil there is love—of learner books designed to teach basic reading and
family, for friends and, for Elena, there is the love of a math readiness skills. The books are whimsically il-
reckless young English nobleman. But their union is lustrated by the "Afro-Bet kids" who shape the num-
threatened by prejudice of color and of class. Valerie bers and letters with their (gymnastically proficient)
Belgrave has vividly recreated a crucial time in Carib- bodies. Words and pictures from African-American
bean and world-history—where the old order is experience reinforce each letter and number. "A is for
changing and the struggle echoes down to the present Africa", "C is for car and camel and cornrows." Eye
day. $9.50 pb, 0-435-98830-1. Heinemann’s terms are a catching, attention holding color illustrations. Both
drag: 20% for bookstores (no minimum?!) unless you're great additions to any children’s section. $3.95 each.
on the agency plan and/or order 50 books, non-re- Just Us is an independent publisher of books for child-
turnable. I don't understand why publishers choose to ren, specializing in picture books with an emphasis on
make their books so inacessible to bookstores. But the African- American experience. Multi-dimensional
some of their titles are worth going to great lengths to learning materials are also available, including flash-
carry, so phone them up (on their nickel) and com- cards, posters, coloring books, school bags, T-shirts
plain. Prices aren't printed on the books, so bookstores and sweatshirts. Their newest book Afro-Bets Book of
can mark them up if necessary. Heinemann Edu- Black Heroes which features 49 Black achievers in-
January 1989 62 Volume 11 Number 5
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:56 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
door to a military base, lesbian land in the South, the
southern tradition of playing dress-up /drag, an inter-
view with Black civil rights activist Bayard Rustin the
chief organizer for the 1963 March on Washingtonon
doing gay rights along with civil rights and on J. Edgar
Hoover’s harassment of Martin Luther King for
having gay associates....… There's more gay male his-
tory here than lesbian, unfortunately, but I wouldn't
Harriet Tubman, the second book in Parenting want to be without any of it, myself. Also includes a
Press’ Biographies for Young Children Series, tells reprint of Dorothy Allison's "A River of Names" from
Harriet Tubman’s story in first person for pre- Trash. Great color cover featuring a Black drag queen.
schoolers and young readers. Well told, well il- $5.00, ISSN 0146:809X, 50% discount to bookstores.
lustrated, and affirming. $5.95 pb, 0-946990-32-7; Other back issues of Southern Exposure include
$15.95 library, 0-946990-33-5. Parenting Press, PO Box Generations: Women in the South, Working Women:
15163, Seattle WA 98115, 800-992-6657. A Handbook of Resources, Rights and Remedies,
and Growing Up Southern. The new issue has been
The Graywolf Annual Number Five Multi-Cul- redesigned and looks great! Order from SE, PO Box
tural Literacy is a direct response to books like Cul- 531, Durham NC 27702.
tural Literacy and The Closing of the American Mind, that
have touched a national nerve about the quality of River of Promise: Two Women’s Story of Love
education in America, but have done little to extend and Adoption is the compellingly written story of a
or promote Americans’ understanding and awareness
of the many cultures which contribute to the breadth
and depth of contemporary American culture. The
essays in Multi-Cultural Literacy demand a broader,
more inclusive vision of American culture. The four
women contributing to the book are Paula Gunn
Allen, Gloria Anzuldúa, Michelle Cliff, and Michele
Wallace. Cultural Literacy includes a list of 5,000 things
"literate Americans know". Multi-Cultural Literacy
extends this list to include the rest of us with concepts
like: deep ecology, diaspora, Amelia Earhart, Medgar
Evers, Great Mother, Che Guevara, Lorraine Hansberry,
Billie Holiday, Zora Neale Hurston, Rosa Parks, trickster,
Wounded Knee, Zimbabwe... $8.50 pb, 1-55597-114-8.
Southern Exposure has a great new issue on gay
and lesbian culture in the South titled Mint Juleps,
Wisteria & Queers. Articles look at a gay paper in the SSƏ1J BUHUaI eJ WOJ urugn, JLU
wartime South, the politics of running a gay bar next
63 January 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:56 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
lesbian couple's attempts to have children by artificial step-by-step directions for writing a living-together
insemination and later through adoption. Written in contract. Bright, strong cover. Highly recommended.
the great lesbian true-to-life adventure story style, the $17.95 pb, 0- 873337-077-5. Nolo Press, 950 Parker St.,
book describes their relationship, their careers, their Berkeley CA 94710. Distributed by BP & IN.
decisions to parent, their frustrations with AlI, their
rejections by traditional adoption agencies, disap-
pointments as adoptions fell through (one time, after
several weeks of parenting the infant) and their final
successes in adopting two children in rapid succes-
sion. Author Judy Dahl is an MCC clergyperson who ©)
anchors her story in Biblical metaphors and her life in
a strong belief in a personal God named "Gracie." CLOSET
Order from LuraMedia, PO Box 261668, San Diego CA
92126.
The new, revised Legal Guide for Lesbian and
Gay Couples by Hayden Curry & Denis Clifford is
out. Nolo Press’ attitude is that a little preventative
law is the best way for lesbian and gay couples to take
charge of our legal situations and avoid a multitude of Perverts by Official Order: The Campaign
legal problems and grief. First published in 1980, the Against Homosexuals by the United States Navy by
Fifth Edition has been substantially revised and up- Lawrence Murphy is out from Harrington Park Press.
dated. Most of the chapters have been reorganized Looks to be exclusively about the Navy’s campaign
and some (the discussion on planning for medical against male homosexuals—the lesbian history of the
emergencies, estate planning, and having and raising same has yet to reach book form. Good, readable,
children together) have been significantly expanded. accessible history. $19.95 pb, 0-918393-44-2. Also out
This edition also includes a list of lesbian and gay legal are John De Cecco’s Gay Relationships, primarily
organizations and several new forms including the about gay men and often quoted in Betty Berzon’s
power of attorney forms which are substantially Permanent Partners ($14.95 pb, 0-918393-33- 7) and Too
different from the previous edition. It also includes Little, Too Late: Dealing with the Health Needs of
È BANNED BOOKS
RIPEN
A FSIS
64 Volume 11 Number 5
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:56 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
Women in Poverty ($14.95 pb, 0-918393-50-7.) writing, and text based on the film’s original narra-
Forthcoming form Harrington are: Loving tion. Morrison died in Kenya of malaria as the book
Boldly: Issues Facing Lesbians edited by Esther went to print, so the collection serves as a memorial to
Rothblum and Ellen Cole ($14.95 pb, 0-918393-58-2); both Jewett and Morrison. $12.95 pb, 0-945980-03-5;
When Husbands Come Out of the Closet by Jean $21.95 cl, 0- 945980-02-7. North Country Press, Box
Schaar Gochros which focuses on the wives’ ex- 641, Unity ME 04988.
periences ($16.95 pb, 0-918393-61-2); Women As They
Age: Challenge, Opportunity, and Triumph edited The Hedgehog written by H.D. for her daughter,
by J. Dianne Garner and Susan O. Mercer ($19.95 pb, is a coming-of-age story about a fatherless Anglo-
0-918393-62-0); AIDS and Families edited by Eleanor American girl living in Switzerland with her mother.
Macklin ($14.95 pb, 0-918393-60-4); and The Sexually “One day the girls goes in search of a hedgehog to kill
Unusual: Guide to Understanding and Helping the snakes in the garden. Along the way she meets a
edited by Dennis Dailey advocating sensitivity and young mountain boy who not only challenges her
understanding toward people whose sexual expres- quest, but also her feelings and assumptions about
sion, whether willing or unwilling, is viewed as nega- herself.” Originally published 50 years ago in a
tively deviant ($12.95 pb, 0-918393-63-9). 40% for 5-9 limited edition of 300. $12.95 c], 0-8112-1069-3. New
books, 45% for 10+. Add 3 percentage points for non- Directions.
returnable. Harrington Park Press, 12 West 32nd St,
NY NY 10001.
The seventeenth edition of The 1989 Gayellow
Pages is out: $10.00 pb, ISSN 0363-826X. Order from
Renaissance House (Box 292 Village statión, NY NY
10014), Bookpeople or Inland.
In The Anguish of Loss, Julie Fritsch, a sculptor,
artist and mother expresses her heartache and
bereavement after the birth and death of her newborn
child. Photos of her clay sculpture and accompanying
prose convey her process of working through this
grief. The Anguish of Loss is a tender and powerful
photographic journal. Co-written with Sherokee Ilse Imported by Dufour Editions, Meggie’s Journey
(Empty Arms and Miscarriage: A Shattered Dream). Win- by Margaret D'Ambrosio tells the story of a girl from
tergreen Press (4105 Oak Street, Long Lake MN an ancient Celtic tribe on the threshold of woman-
55356), $8.95 pb, 0-9609456-5-2. Standard bookstore hood. Based on Celtic mythology, the novel tells of
terms. Meggie’s journeys to the other worlds and the wis-
dom of the Sidhe, a race of spiritual beings, and the
Master Smart Woman offers a portrait of Sarah reunion with the Great Goddess. Looks very interest-
Orne Jewett based on the film by Jane Morrison. The ing. $10.95 pb, 0-978275-44-8. Dufour Editions, PO
book includes 85 photographs, excerpts from Jewett’s Box 449, Chester Springs PA 19425. O
65 January 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:56 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
New from Ohio State
Justifiable Homicide
Battered Women, Self-Defense, and the Law
By Cynthia K. Gillespie
“Anyone who wants answers to questions about the long sentences women typically receive for
exercising their right to self-defense should start with this book. Gillespie combines clear analysis,
sound politics, and compassion in describing the anguish these women endure—first at the hands of
their abusive partners, then at the hands of the law.” —Ginny NiCarthy, author of The Ones Who Got
Away: Women Who Left Abusive Partners
320 pages. ISBN 0-8142-0466-X $24.95
Books & Life
By Jan Clausen
In this collection of articles, essays, and reviews, novelist, poet, critic, and long-time feminist activist
Jan Clausen explores the intersection of literary art and politics. Taking as her paradigm of engaged
poetry and fiction the extraordinary body of writing that emerged from North American feminism’s
Second Wave, she probes for answers to questions about the social responsibilities of the fiction writer,
the relationship of poetry to silence, and the influence of “politically correct” mores on books by
lesbian-feminists.
192 pages . ISBN 0-8142-0465-1 Cloth, $24.95 ISBN 0-8142-0470-8 Paper, $8.95
Art & Anger
Reading Like a Woman
By Jane Marcus
“These feminist critical essays about Wilde, Ibsen, Meredith, and above all Virginia Woolf have grown
old, but honorably. They bring back the atmosphere of earlier stages in evolving feminist arguments,
when plucky polemicists took on critics who considered Oscar Wilde an effete decadent or Virginia
Woolf a hopeless esthete, a snob—apolitical, sexless, mad. . . .Woolf had to wait for these new readers
who would recognize her not only as stylist but as feminist, socialist, pacifist, mystic, collectivist, lover
of women and their books; we are in their debt for rethinking Woolf, loving her for what she knew,
how much she got said against the grain.”—The New York Times Book Review
312 pages. ISBN 0-8142-0453-8 Cloth, $30.00 ISBN 0-8142-0460-0 Paper, $11.95
Ohio State University Press 1070 Carmack Rd. Columbus, Ohio 43210 614-292-6930
January 1989 66 Volume 11 Number 5
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:56 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
FROM
THE
E
iL D. —Ih a 1 =4 s1 F l
By Kris Hoover Scott. The author's specialty is 19th-century France,
Amazon Bookstore but her essays on studying gender and class will ap-
Minneapolis peal to readers interested in feminist theory and class
analysis as well as history. $29. cl , ISBN -6610-4, 256p.
COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS Also note: Thinking Through the Body, Jane
Gender and History, Linda J. Nicholson. This Gallop, $25. cl, ISBN -6610-4, 200p, photos. Feminist
inspiring essay locates the development of feminist reflections on sexuality, psychoanalysis, and dichoto-
theory in the history of the last four hundred years, mies that "[keep] our lives out of our knowledge":
along the way giving small gems of insight about how mind/body and public/private; Responsive Work-
and why feminism has developed as it has. The author place, Sheila Kamerman & Alfred Kahn, $14.50 pb,
calls on feminists to improve our sense of history so ISBN -6481-0, 329p, documents the ways in which
that feminism will achieve both humility, a need employers have and have not responded to the needs
pointed out by feminists of color, and a justified sense of women workers and of parents; and, though there
of its own great importance as a social movement. probably isn't anything specific to women here, some
$13.50 pb, ISBN 0-2310-6221-4, 256p. stores may want to carry: Gays/Justice, Richard D.
Women’s Psyche, Women’s Spirit, Mary Lou Mohr, $25. cl, ISBN -6734-8,304p. Arguments for gay
Randour. Dramatic first-person accounts of the civil rights and suggestions for political organizing by
spiritual experiences of 94 women of diverse ages and a gay male philosopher.
backgrounds are blended with ideas from theology
a mn ed a n p insy g c h ao nl do g y id e i nn t i tt yh .i s $ 1s 3t .u 5d 0y p o bf , Iw SBom N e n -6’s 2 5 s 1e -a 6r ,c h 2 4 f 0o pr . A
Brilliant Bylines, Barbara Belford. This lively
biographical anthology of women journalists in the
U.S. begins with Margaret Fuller in the 1840's and NEW YORK UNIVERSITY PRESS (dis-
includes women currently writing. Each woman’s tributed by Columbia University Press)
biographical sketch is followed by examples of her Susan B. Anthony, Kathleen Barry. Anthony is
writing. $15.50 pb, ISBN -5497-1, 385p, photos. so interesting, and her ideas and conflicts are so rele-
Women in Saudi Arabia, Suraya Altorki. The vant to contemporary feminism, that I hope readers
author, one of the first Saudi women to receive a PhD, will wade through this biography despite its awful
describes wealthy urban women’s lives from an in- writing. Annoying reptition, meandering sentences
sider’s point of view. She blends her own experience and insignificant quotations detract from the wealth
with her observations of continuity and change of detail about Anthony's strategies and personal life.
among grandmothers, mothers and daughters in thir- It is, nonetheless, the only book we have that seriously
teen families. $13. pb, ISBN -6183-8, 183p. explores the loving relationship between Anthony
Gender & the Politics of History, Joan Wallach and Elizabeth Cady Stanton that was so crucial to the
Volume 11 Number 5 67
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:56 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
lives and work of both feminist leaders. 426p, 23 pho- in Cities, Jo Little et al., eds., $32. cl, ISBN -5043-5,
tos, ISBN 0-8147-1105-7, $27.95 dl. 224p; and a corrective to the popular prescription that
Lust to Kill, Deborah Cameron & Elizabeth women would be so much better off if we just did
Frazier. An unusually readable, insightful and activ- home-based work: Homeworking: Myths and Reali-
ist-oriented study of violence against women. Serial ties, Sheila Allen & Carol Wolkowitz, $30. cl, ISBN
killers, the authors note, are typically seen in Western -0490-1, 208p.
countries as literary/ philosophical heroes or as psy-
chological/sociological deviants. Ignoring the fact UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA
that these murderers are all male has pre-empted Private Self, Shari Benstock, ed. Essays by Eliza-
questions about the patriarchal political content of beth Fox-Genovese on Afro-American women’s writ-
their crimes. In looking at serial murder as a male ing, Jane Marcus on the private selves of public
crime, the authors compare killings of women and women, James H. McGavran on Dorothy
those of boys and men and explore such topics as: why Wordsworth’s journals, tellingly entitled "Putting
women do not commit sexual murder; evidence that Herself Down," and nine others by well-known
serial murder is a recent, Western phenomenon; and scholars make up this latest collection in the burgeon-
the sexualization of violence in Western society in ing writing on women’s autobiography. $10.95 pb,
general and within feminist and lesbian communities. ISBN 0-8078-4218-4, 319p ; $34.95 c], -1791-9.
$15 pb, ISBN -1415-3. Holy Women of 12th Century England, Sharon
Women, Work and Fertility, 1900-1986, Susan H. K. Elkins. This is the first book-length study of Eng-
Van Horn, blends anecdotes, analysis and well-pre- lishwomen’s religious houses, almost all of which
sented statistics to chart U.S. women’s changing crea- were founded in the 1100's. Elkins unearths the cir-
tive negotiation of the world of work and childcare. cumstances of the founding of women’s monasteries
This is a well-written summary of "where we are now, and describes the lives and ideas that animated them.
and how we got here" that focuses not on "women’s Though the author does not make use of Jan Ray-
roles," but on women’s actions. Don’t be put off by the mond’s or other feminist writing on women’s com-
forgettable cover -- this is a handy, comprehensive munities, Elkins’ basic research will be of interest to
little book. $15. pb, ISBN -8760-6, 232p. many feminists.$29.95 c], ISBN -1775-9, 244p.
Also note: a new collection on the ways in which Changing Lives of American Women, Barbara
city life differs for women and men and how urban D. Melber et al. This charting of women’s changing
geography might better meet women’s needs: Women work and family structure aims to do what Women,
Great by Jane Wiseman.
413 17750 5 $12.95
Call Toll Free: 1-800-541-2086
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:56 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
toni ONI h
Work and Fertility (NYU, above) does, but in a more her management of her husband’s career from ex-
journalistic, easy-to-read way. Sadly, it achieves the plorer to Civil War general, to her own career as a
opposite: its analysis resembles that of a light ma- writer. Herr has a fine grasp of history and feminism,
gazine article, and its writing is overly academic. and a polished prose style -- novel readers as well as
Many social trends familiar to feminists are docu- those interested in 19th-century and California his-
mented with handy statistics, but most explanations tory, will like this carefully-researched, fast-paced
are shallow. The authors are puzzled, for example, by tale. $14.95 pb, ISBN 0-8061-2159-9, 496p.
the current large population of single women. $12.95 The Roman Mother, Suzanne Dixon. Since most
pb, ISBN to be announced, 250p; $24.95 cl, -1813-5. of women’s existance in ancient Rome took place off
Jean Rhys and the Novel as Women’s Text, the battlefield, and certainly outside the Senate, the
Nancy R. Harrison Rhys’ popularity in academic author has, she says, ransacked a variety of sources.
circles is large enough that you might consider carry- Stores near colleges might be able to sell this readable
ing a copy of this study of her two best known novels, study of Roman women and the role and ideal of
Voyage in the Dark (1939) and Wide Sargasso Sea (1966). motherhood. $29.50 c], ISBN -2125-4, 286p.
The author's language is somewhat academic, but this
won't dissuade the hardcover litcrit audience. Harri- AN
son's well-supported argument is that the "women’s"
nature of Rhys’ fiction lies in its "narrative structure,"
that is, not so much in the tale, but in how it is told.
$34.95 c], ISBN -1790-2, 289p. HARVARD UNIVERSITY PRESS
Mapping the Moral Domain, Carol Gilligan et
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN PRESS al., eds. This collection by psychologists about the
Making A Spectacle, Linda Hart, ed. Playwrit- different ways in which women and men make moral
ing appealed to Megan Terry, she says, because theater decisions, and their different approaches to relation-
audiences "will even listen to a woman - without ships and concepts of justice, responsibility, and
interrupting her." This collection describes the variety dependence, was announced for October ‘88.1 haven’t
of uses such writers as Maria Irene Fornes, Ntozake seen it, yet, however. Unless it turns out to be terribly
Shange, Michelene Wandor and other feminists in the academic, there should be a large audience for it --
U.S. and Britain, are making of the stage. About $12.95 Gilligan’s In a Different Voice (1982) still sells steadily
pb, ISBN 0-4720-6389-8, 347p. and Women's Ways of Knowing (Harper & Row) was
Also note: Anne Sexton: Telling a Tale, Steven hard to keep in stock at Amazon in Minneapolis even
E. Colburn, ed., $12.95 pb, ISBN -9379-0 ; $32.50 c|, as a $20 hardcover. $30. cl, ISBN 0-6745-4832-9, 432p.
-9379-7, reviews and essays by many authors, written Real Rape, Susan Estrich. A Harvard law profes-
during and after the poet's lifetime. sor, feminist and rape survivor explains how the legal
system continues to fail rape victims and recommends
UNIVERSITY OF OKLAHOMA PRESS specific changes in the law. Her language is not too
Jessie Benton Fremont, Pamela Herr. This enjoy- difficult for most non-lawyers, and she gives many
able biography follows the daring, ambitious Fremont examples and states her pithy conclusions clearly.
from her childhood as a Senator's daughter, through Customers may also recognize Estrich as the manager
Volume 11 Number 5 69 January 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:56 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
of Dukakis’ presidental campaign. $7.95 pb, ISBN -7-
4944-8, 176p.
Women’s Quest for Economic Equality, Victor R.
Fuchs (male author). Relates the gap between
women’s and men’s incomes to the unfair share of
childraising women bear and recommends labor
market reforms such as comparable worth and child-
centered policies such as subsidized daycare. $18.95 cl,
ISBN 9-5545-5, 176p.
Surrogate Motherhood, Martha A. Field ex-
amines the possible legal approaches, from federal
prohibition to varying state laws, and recommends
that the biological mother retain her right to keep her
child until at least sometime after the birth. $22.50 cl,
ISBN 8-5748-8,224p.
A Sor Juana Anthology, Alan Trueblood, trans.,
$29.50, ISBN 8-2120-3, 272p, and Sor Juana, or The
Traps of Faith, Octavio Paz, $29.95 cl, 8-2015-X, 560p.
DAUGHTERS OF THE DESERT Sor (Sister) Juana awed Mexican elite society with her
W NAO TM IVEN E AA MN ET RH IR CO AP NO L SO OG UIS TT HS W A ESN TD 1 T 88H 0E —1980 brilliant and often feminist verse and prose writing.
AN ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE The Anthology represents these 300-year-old works,
BARBARA A. BABCOCK & NANCY J. PAREZO while Mexican poet Paz’s biography ponders Juana
T d ofh es i is g t h nl eea v d i rs oh t lol ey g t ei hl nl au e trs t a wr tea ot m e ad e n c c o a m at na pl to r hg e rhu oe e p n o si lis ov g e ip s a tar sst ,s e sso csf m h o ea lnn art s o , an n ag d no di n r g e a v c i tp s iir voo in sje tc st I ln eae rs n ed de al ba b eC sr su z a’ n da m ra ez nin og w n c ea dr e e wr r itas e r ,a wco hu or t u ll ia td my a, t e t lyhen
h Soa uv te h wpl ea sy t.e d P ri en s e nu tn sd e tr hst ea n cd ai rn eg e r st h oe f N fa ot riv tye - fA ivm ee r wic oa mn e ncu l wtu hr oe s e of the r le in fo eu n c ined s se ic lu el nar c e l .e a r Uni Nng I V a En Rd S s Ip Te Ynt Oth Fe r Pes Et N o Nf S h Ye Lr VANIA
work on the indigenous cultures of Arizona and New Mexico
bCegIa: n -b1ef0o8re7 -1794 0 .$ 32596. 9 p5p*., 1P83a :h-a1lf0t8on3e-s 4 & $li1ne9 . a9r5t PRESS Handmaidens of the Lord, Elaine J. Lawless. By
WESTERN WOMEN describing the daily rounds and spiritual struggles of
THEIR LAND, THEIR LIVES several colorful, dedicated Penticostal women preach-
E VD II CT KE ID L B . Y R UL II ZL L I &A N J AS NCH ICL EI S S MEL O, NK ers, the author shows how these independent and
The essays gathered here take a closer look at topics that were powerful community leaders hold their position
of traditional importance to women throughout the country. while at the same time preaching a gospel of women’s
D wo om me es nt ’i sc li ed ge ao ll o rg iy g, h tr se li ag ri eo u js u s te x p se or mie en c oe f, f tham e i l iy ss u v ea sl u te hs, a t a n ard e subservience. The author's empathy and respect for
examined anew within the context of recent study of women at these right wing women, combined with her clarity
t Che l : f r -o 1nt 0 8o 9f - t 3h e $s 2et 7tl .e 5m 0e *nt Pwa av :e . -3 168 0 9 p 0p. -, 7 2 3 $ h 1a 4lf .t 9on 5es about the contradictions in their lives will help femi-
nists gain a fuller understanding of Evangelical
ISBN Prefix: 0-8263 *indicates short discount women. $17.95 pb, ISBN 0-8122-1265-7, 272p; $39.95
cl, -8100-4.
SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY PRESS
UNIVERSITY OF Arab Women in the Field, Soraya Altorki &
NEW MEXICO PRESS Camilla Fawzi El-Solh. Arab women anthropologists
ES working in Lebanon, Saudi Arabia, Egypt, Iraq and a
G Bedouin community discuss their own experiences of
ALBUQUERQUE, NEW MEXICO 87131 ~= | studying Arab women and explore the promise and
January 1989 70 Volume 11 Number 5
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)7f:ffff:ffff:ffff:ffff:ffff on Thu, 01 Jan 1976 12:34:56 UTC
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
—,
1 R —ro n o R=A NSiAN A
difficulties of studying one’s own society. $14.95 pb, society's definitions of women throughout her life,
ISBN 0-8156-2450-6, 208p; $27.95 c], -2449-2, and also how her growing understanding of Ameri-
can Indian culture ultimately challenged her to under-
UNIVERSITY OF NEBRASKA PRESS stand herself as a white outsider on Indian land.
Artemisia, Anna Banti (Lucia Lopresti). Banti $16.95 pb, ISBN -8156-0, 464p; $32.95 cl, -3128-8.
began this haunting, sparely and elegantly written Also note: Life in Alaska, May Wynne Lamb,
feminist novel in the 1930's. Her subject, Artemisia $8.95 pb, ISBN -7927-2, 192p; $19.95 cl, -2879-1,
Gentileschi, was a great Renaissance painter, perhaps memoirs of a Kansas woman who taught school in a
best known now for her paintings of the Biblical scene small Alaskan town in the 1930's; and two collections
in which Judith murders her captor, the general by Willa Cather: Willa Cather in Europe, $7.50, ISBN
Holofernes. The author's house and the manuscript -6333-3, 178p, journalistic impressions of her first trip
were destroyed by the Nazis, however, and when to Europe in 1902, and Not Under Forty, $6.95 pb,
Banti began to rewrite the story, she found that the war ISBN 6331-7, 147p, essays on the cultural dislocations
had changed her understanding of her fictional Ar- of World War I. Other Cather paperbacks are also
temisia’s life. The final novel, just translated into Eng- available. Nebraska also publishes one or more books
lish, parallels and sometimes blends Artemisia’s and each season about white women’s lives in the "fron-
the author's experiences and passions, their desire to tier" West. Fall 1988 offerings are: A Tenderfoot Bride,
create and their experiences of male violence. $21. c, Clarice Richards, a memoir of a Colorado rancher, first
ISBN 0-8032-1203-8, 219p. published in 1920, $6.95 pb, ISBN -8930-8, 234p;
Artemisia is the latest in Nebraska's European $18.95 cl, -3889-4; and Indians, Infants and Infantry,
Women Writers series. All are of interest to feminist Merrill Mattes (male author), a biography based on
stores, and all are, unfortunately, still hardcover. Write the letters and diary of Elizabeth Burt, the wife of an
publicist Diane Wanek for an annotated -list of the infantry officer. $8.95 pb, ISBN -8157-9, 304p.
novels in the series. A
Dakota Diaspora, Sophie Trupin. Formerly pub-
ali s h Je ed w i sb hy hA ol mte er sn ta et ai dv ee r P inre s Ns o o rf th B Der ak ke ol te ay , p rt oh vi is d em s e am o ri ar r e of EN l
view of rural Jewish immigrant life. Despite her UNIVERSITY OF KENTUCKY PRESS
parents’ different experiences of the U.S. -- her father Kentucky publishes literary criticism, regional
found "a man’s freedom and dignity" denied a Jew in books and black studies. Several offerings from
Europe, but her mother saw only new tasks in place Spring and Fall 1988 deserve feminist bookstores’ at-
of familiar people and habits -- Trupin records that the tention -- don’t miss their catalog for the next few
pair did create a warm home, and built a small Jewish seasons, as paperback editions become available.
community with a few neighboring families. $6.95 Two books on Gwendolyn Brooks: A Life of
pb, ISBN -9414-x, 157p. Gwendolyn Brooks, George E. Kent (male author),
A Stranger in Her Native Land: Alice Fletcher $25. cl, ISBN 0-8131-1659-7, 304p; Gwendolyn
and the American Indians, Joan Mark Fletcher (1838- Brooks: Poetry and the Heroic Voice, (literary criti-
1923) was one of the first women anthropologists. cism) D.H. Melhem (probably a male author), $12. pb,
Mark’s biography shows how Fletcher challenged ISBN -0180-8, 280p.
Volume 11 Number 5 71 January 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:56 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
ALICE A. CHOWN
in others very much ahead of it.
Singing Family of the Cumberlands, Jean UNIVERSITY OF NEW MEXICO PRESS
Ritchie. Autobiography of the famous folksinger, first Western Women: Their Land, Their Lives, Lil-
published in 1957. $8.95 pb, ISBN -0186-7, 264p; $20. lian Schlissel, Vicki Ruiz & Janice Monk, eds. A fresh
c], -1679-1. contribution to multi-cultural women’s history, these
Two works of feminist literary criticism with interesting papers cover Indian women’s legal rights,
wide appeal: Women’s Poetry of the First World War, Engish-speaking women’s struggle with ideals of
Nosheen Kahn, $25. c], ISBN -1677-5, 240p; and Ameri- domesticity, cross-cultural marriages, and other im-
can Women Writing Fiction, Mickey Pearlman, ed., portant issues in understanding past and present ex-
essays on Toni Cade Bambara, Mary Lee Settle, Louise perience in the western U.S. $14.95 pb, ISBN
Erdrich and seven other contemporary writers. $10. 0-8263-1090-7, 354p, 22 photos ; $27.50 cl, -1089-3.
pb, ISBN -0182-4, 232p; $20. cl, -1657-0.
And from last spring’s list, a rare book on the YALE UNIVERSITY PRESS
subject of women and sports: Playing the Game: Jane Ellen Harrison, Sandra J. Peacock. Using
Sport and the Physical Emancipation of English psychology and intellectual history, Peacock seeks to
Women, 1870-1914, Kathleen E. McCrone. An enthusi- unravel the apparent discontinuities in the life of this
astic and readable account of the radical feminist con- pioneering woman, Cambridge professor, brilliant
tributions of such unlikely-sounding places as teacher, and innovative scholar of ancient Greece.
Madame Bergman-Osterberg’s Hampstead Physical Harrison (1850-1928) expounded passionately on
Training College. McCrone’s book is a wide-ranging texts written by men, yet sought to prove the historical
analysis of Women’s athletics as a successful attack on existence of matriarchy, made a life-long study of his-
Victorian patriarchy’s definition of privileged women tory, but denied historical influences on herself. She
as docile and idle. $35. c], ISBN -1641-4, 310p. formed solid and passionate intellectual friendships,
but also messy emotional entanglements. And, while
January 1989 Volume 11 Number 5
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:56 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
ir RI an7 iA h
Harrison is remembered as a lone woman scholar Duras’ writing is not feminist. Though expensive, this
among men, she chose women as life partners. $27.50 study is on one of the cutting edges of academic liter-
c], ISBN 0-300-0-4128-4, 283p. ary criticism and deserves inclusion in large litcrit
Feminist Legacy of Karen Horney, Marcia West- sections. $30. cl, ISBN 0-4287-6, 260p.
kott. This clearly-written book presents the insights Teenage Preganacy in Industrialized Countries,
for feminist psychology to be found in this psycho- Elsie F. Jones et al. Nowhere else in the industrialized
analyst's often overlooked later writing. Horney re- world is teenage pregnancy the burden to young
jected Freud’s use of male viewpoints and conflicts as women and to society that is in the U.S. This book
the norm, and in her later work focuses almost exclu- looks at 35 other countries in order to challenge main-
sively on the emotional conflicts and challenges of stream assumptions about its "causes." It argues for
girls and women. She also broke with Freud over the better access to contraceptives and information about
inevitability of childhood conflicts and felt that de- sex, and measures to address the more abstract causes
humanizing social arrangements, not the clash of in- of early, unplanned preganacy like poverty, despair
stinct and civilization, caused the psychic trauma about ever getting a good job, and U.S. policy-makers’
called "neurosis." $9.95 pb, ISBN 0-4204-3, 242p. steadfast enforcement of a single "moral" norm in a
Deceptive Distinctions, Cynthia Fuchs Epstein. pluralistic society. $12.95 pb , ISBN 0-4325-2, 310p.
Well-known sociologist Epstein offers no fresh analy- Yale French Studies, 75. The Politics of Tradi-
ses of social roles (her specialty) in this bland survey tion: Placing Women in French Literature, Joan De-
of two decades of feminist research on gender in- Jean and Nancy K. Miller, eds. Essays on French
equality. Recent feminist thinking on race, class and literature from the Middle Ages to the present call for
lesbian issues is absent, as is mention of "radical" the redefinition of French literary "periods" and
analyses such as Andrea Dworkin’s. Its dry style ren- "movements" to account for women’s writing. Yale
ders the studies summarized less, rather than more, French Studies combine for discount with other Yale
accessible to general readers. And it is so careful not books. $13.95 pb, ISBN 0-4323-6, 272p.
to offend powerful men that it can offer as conclusions
only tired generalizations about the ways in which
women and men misunderstand each other. The time
is right for overviews, but Miriam Johnson’s Strong
Mothers, Weak Wives, (U. of Calif., see Sept. 88 FBN)
has much more to offer than this disappointing book.
$25 cl, ISBN 0-4175-6, 300p. RUTGERS UNIVERSITY PRESS
The Other Woman: Feminism and Femininity Brazilian Women Speak, Daphne Patai. Vivid
in the Work of Marguerite Duras, Trista Selous. Prac- oral histories of twenty women from urban Rio de
tically all of French novelist Duras’ work has recently Janeiro and the rural Northeast, domestic workers,
become available in English. French feminist literary nuns, prostitutes, homemakers, revolutionaries and
critics using the ideas of psychoanalyst Jacques Lacan others, speak to the opportunities, constraints, and
have used Duras’ work as an example of the subver- desires that shape Brazilian women’s lives. The
sively feminist text. Selous takes, instead, the interest- author adds background on economic conditions, lib-
ing position of agreeing with Duras herself that eration theology, Afro-Brazilian spiritual practice,
Volume 11 Number 5 73 January 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:56 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
feminist and black activism, health, education and
law. $13.95 pb, ISBN 0-8135-1301-4, 404p; $37. cl, ISBN
-1300-6.
The Lamplighter Maria Susanna Cummins.
Written in 1854, this female Horatio Alger story was
outsold only by Uncle Tom's Cabin. Like Horatio, the
boys’ hero, Gerty rises from the slums through good-
ness and right living. However, this female quest is
situated not in the male world of pitiless competition,
but in a community of care and mutual aid. The
novels heroine inspired three generations of girls and
its values are an interesting counterpoint to the
The Poems of Phillis Wheatley "masculine virtues" of the time. $15. pb, ISBN -1332-6,
Revised and Enlarged Edition 480p; $45. c], ISBN -1332-4.
Edited with an introduction by Julian D. Mason, Jr. Women Artists, Women Exiles: "Miss Grief" and
Other Stories, Constance Fenimore Woolson. Wool-
Julian Mason has now provided the fullest and most
accurate edition yet produced of the poems of fable-like quality of romantic fiction and the realistic
Phillis Wheatley, an important young black poet of description and ambivilent emotions of modern writ-
eighteenth-century Boston. The original edition of ing. Her work is of particular interest to feminists as
this book has been extensively revised and ex- an illustration of what Sandra Gilbert and Susan
panded in light of recent Wheatley scholarship and Gubar have called the "anxiety of authorship," the
includes each of her fifty-five poems and twenty-two heart-wrenching difficulty of reconsiling the identities
letters as well as other works now known to be by of woman and artist. $15. pb, ISBN -1348-2, 350p; $42.
Wheatley, all annotated. c], ISBN -1347-3.
approx. 240 pp., $24.95 cloth, $12.95 paper Also note: Frances Burney: The Life in the
Works, Margaret Anne Doody, $14.95pb, ISBN -1355-
3, 528p, 30 illus; $40. c], ISBN -1309-x, the dramatic life
The Cold War Romance of and works of the English novelist and playwright, a
Lillian Hellman and John Melby contemporary of Jane Austen; Centuries of Female
by Robert P. Newman Days: Englishwomen’s Private Diaries Harriet
This is the story of the affair between Lillian Hellman Blodgett, $29.95 cl, ISBN 1314-6, 355p, delves into the
and John Melby, a Foreign Service officer she met in diaries of 60 women, written over 300 years, to illumi-
MRu es lbsi ya ld eu tr ti en rg s, W FBo Ir l d a n dW a Pr a s sII p. o rB ta s e Od f f o icn e H fie ll el sm , a n M ea lbn yd ’s n wa ot me e na ’ sf e am tta il te u d w eso r ald n d a n cd o n cs eh ro nw s ; a E xc o n Ft amin iu li it ay : Go rf and-
hearing transcripts, and the files of Hellman’s law- parents, Parents and Children Adjust to Divorce,
yer, this book is a compelling account of a love affair Colleen Leahy Johnson, $14. pb, ISBN -1325-1; and,
that was aborted and then revived by the Cold War. for Katherine Hepburn fans, the screenplay and pro-
approx. 490 pp., $24.95 duction notes for Bringing Up Baby, Gerald Mast,
(male) ed., $14. pb, ISBN -1341-3, 233p, 22 illus; $32.
c], ISBN -1340-5.
available at bookstores or from
The University of North Carolina Press Correction: The author of University of Chicago’s
Post Office Box 2288 informative and entertaining cross-cultural study of
Chapel Hill, North Carolina 27515-2288 dance, Dance, Sex and Gender is Judith Lynne
HANNA. In the Sept. ‘88 FBN, I mistakenly gave her
January 1989 74 Volume 11 Number 5
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:56 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
E
1il.
By Sandi Torkildson stories in Love Life ($16.95) focus on people coping
A Room of One's Own/Madison with the problems created by love.
There is a new Margurite Duras novel, Emily L.
Since most of Spring 89 publishers’ catalogues ($14.95) coming out in May from Pantheon.
have not arrived yet, I am doing a quick overview of
the new titles that are expected in the upcoming sea- The leading title in non-fiction is a new collection
son. of poems by Adrienne Rich. Time’s Power: Poems
1985-1988 ($15.95 c], $7.95 pb) will be published by
Norton in May.
Bantam will publish Going Within ($18.95) by
H Shirley MacLaine in May. I do not know if this is
fiction or non-fiction. That may depend on your view-
point.
W Faa mlk ile iT r ar h e a n ( $dt 1w 9 .Mo 9 5a )b r ,gi g a W r eb at lo ko eAk rs t ’ sw a or foe id r . s n t T e w h ne o vn T eo lev m e sl ips n l e cb e y o f T hA eMli c y Ce olor mark B se ta uc do yn oP fr e s Vs i r ( gH inar iap e r W o& o l fR o bw y) w Loi ull i s ep u Dbl ei s h S a la v o .land-
Virginia Woolf: The Impact of Childhood Sexual
Purple is due in May from Harcourt Brace Jovanovich. Abuse on Her Life ($22.95) is due out in April.
Dino u bFelebdrauya r yw.ill publish Atwood’s Cat’s b ($18.95) The autobiography of Pakistan's first woman
"F" Is for Fugitive ($15.95) by Sue Grafton is her p our tim ie n m Min aris ct he r , f r D omau g Sh it mer o n o f & D Se cs hti un sy te r ( .$19.95) is due
sixth mystery. It’s due out from Holt in May.
Susan Brownmiller’s first novel, Waverly Place
($18.95) will be published in February by Grove Press. Zil;
Marge Piercy’s novel about a community over-
run by tourists, Summer People ($19.95) will be pub-
lished by Summit (Simon & Schuster) in June. The Warrior Queens ($22.95) by Antonia Fraser
Buffalo Afternoon ($19.95) is a new novel by will be published in March by Knopf (Random
Susan Fromberg Schaeffer (Anya), due out in May House). It looks at women who have led their coun-
from Knopf (Random House). tries during war.
Pantheon (Random House) will publish Novelist Marilynne Robinson (Housekeeping) will
Latecomers ($16.95) by British author Anita Brookner publish a non-fiction title, Mother Country ($16.95),
in March. about the nuclear waste off the coast of England. This
Harper & Row will publish a new collection of is due in June from Farrar, Straus, & Giroux.
short stories by Bobbie Ann Mason in March. The Robin Morgan's new book, The Demon Lover:
75 January 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:56 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
F ruary from Nor Ont tohe nSexu.ality of Terrorism ($18.95) is due in Feb-
Macmillan Publishing Group was one of the first
“...lessons catalogues to arrive so I will highlight a few of their
THE COLOR of positive titles. First time novelist Ann Oakley will have a new
u s ai n i d la of fvfiremema t iionan in sbtodo k f orduot m inf M E anrfcghrl. a oOnamdkl.e y H iEse rna gwnellola n nk-nfdowi.cn t isooHcnio lo gbfisot o kbsook
: Woman's Work and Taking It Like a Woman have both
GHT healing, and been published in the U.S. Her novel, The Men’s
m FLaneImyV a n ITa NnR L O LA hE R omApoAs etS o f:” aol ll 1o Rg oy o g m py r(0 o6 f8 P9e-s 1s2 o0 fr5s0 i 8 , w h$h1 8o. 9 f5f) :a lisl 1 aib lno u tl1 o tvweo. married soci-
— Larry Siegel, M.D. The most interesting book on Macmillan’s list is
AIDS Task Force, Born for Liberty: A History of Women in America by
AMSAODD Sara Evans ($24.95, 002- 9029902, April). Evans covers
U the history of American women from the Iroquois
Craestsinpgo nlidghst otno t hAe IsDhaSd o wws, i tHhaz e ldtehn e m aptroown, e trh r oaugnhd t hhe o fpulel raocfia l, :e t h:n ic: and class diver-
daily meditation. sity of American women for the last three centuries.
Order #5056 $6.95 Novelist Bette Pesetsky has a new collection of
short stories due out in April from Macmillan. Con-
Toll-free l d fessions of a Bad Girl ($17.95, 0-589-120214) deals
ESTO MN Only ZEIN e with the vagaries, tenuousness and tenacity of family
relationships.
New in paperback from Free Press (Macmillan) is
Z When Battered Women Kill ($9.95 pb, 002903881-2,
March) by Angela Browne. Browne shows how bat-
K S a tered women adapt to their tormentor’s behavior to
v S minimize the violence and how society makes it so
sÉ x" S A difficult for these women to escape. She reveals that
> N S S the difference between victims who kill and other
S YO SS > battered women lies not in themselves but in the
S o F c severity of the violence they have endured.
E % NESS Also coming in paper from Macmillan is The
ELS : Illustrated Garden Book by V. Sackville-West ($15.95
SL > A pb, 0689-708165, April). This is a collection of Sack-
ES i v ville-West’s gardening articles for the Observer.
s : KS AN A collection of short stories by Melissa Pritchard,
( X S SS’ :t h aey w fi rnNonm e rM aCoyof l l ifetrrho em ( M F laCaconmlnliielerlray n )( .MO 'aSCcpominriniltlo ar nS ) e.A i zwSuprairersdi t, ( $iS7se .i d u($e7 . 9in5
É S , L pb, 002-0360703) portrays characters with restless
o) v“ e C $ $ souls and questing spirits who are caught in the odd,
SS NY s ironic and sometimes cruel dilemmas of modern life.
é PO <E È Recognizing Child Abuse: A Guide for the Con-
No SD cerned by Douglas Besharov ($9.95pb, 002903082X,
s: © July) is a checklist of tell-tale signs of child abuse and
7 guidelines for action. From Free Press (Macmillan). O
January 1989 76 Volume 11 Number 5
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:56 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
A Room of One’s Own 3 In Her Day, Brown, Bantam Books, $4.50.
Madison, Wisconsin 4 Being: Guide to a New Way, Sunlight, Earth Books,
December 1988 $5.95.
5 Macho Sluts, Califia, Alyson Publications, $8.95.
1 Fried Green Tomatoes at the Whistle Stop Cafe, 6 Healing the Shame that Binds You, Bradshaw,
Flagg, McGraw, $5.95. Health Communications, $9.95.
2 Beloved, Morrison, E.P. Dutton, $8.95. 7 The Hug, Simpson, Annick Press, $0.99.
3 Courage to Heal, Bass, Harper & Row, $14.95. 8 Healing the Child Within, Whitfield, Health Com-
4 Reflections in the Light, Gawain, New World Li- munications, $8.95.
brary, $6.95. 9. Bradshaw on the Family, Bradshaw, Health Com-
5 Her Mother’s Daughter, French, Ballantine, $5.95. munications, $9.95.
6 In Her Day, Brown, Bantam, $4.50. 10 Places of Interest to Women, Ferrari ed., Ferrari
7 Each Day a New Beginning, Hazelden, Harper & Publications, $8.00.
Row, $7.95.
8 Radiant Way, Drabble, Ivy/Bantam, $4.95. *
9 Gone to Soldiers, Piercy, Fawcett, $4.95.
10 Found Goddesses, Grey, New Victoria, $7.95.
11 Mundane’s World, Grahn, Crossing, $10.95.
12 Lesbian Ethics, Hoagland, Institute of Lesbian Stu-
dies, $14.95.
13 The New Our Bodies Ourselves, Boston Women’s Two Sisters
Collective, Simon & Schuster, $15.95. Menlo Park, CA
14 Codependent No More, Beattie, Harper & Row, Fall 1988
$8.95.
15 American Childhood, Dillard, Harper & Row, When You're Ready, Evert.
$7.95. Bradshaw on the Family, Bradshaw.
16 Prosperine Papers, Clausen, Crossing, $8.95. Love, Medicine & Miracles, Seigel.
Each Day a New Beginning, Hazelton.
ClaireLight Addictive Organization, Schaef & Fassel.
Santa Rosa, CA Going Out of Our Minds, Johnson.
December 1988 Feeding the Hungry Heart, Roth.
Key, Zen Center.
1 Reflections in the Light, Gawain, New World Li- Reflections in the Light, Gawain.
brary, $6.95. Twelve Steps for Everyone, CompCare.
2 Courage to Heal, Bass & Davis, Harper & Row, Do What You Love, The Money will Follow, Sinetar.
$14.95. Women’s Reality, Schaef.
Courage to Heal, Bass & Davis.
January 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:56 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
Lesbian Passion, Loulan.
Codependence, Schaef.
Crystal Handbook, Sullivan.
Power of Myth, Campbell.
Codependent No More, Beattie.
Monarchs Are Flying, Foster
Lesbian Couples, Clunis & Green.
Leave a Light on For Me, Swallow.
When Society Becomes an Addict.
Crazy Ladies
Cincinnati, OH
Entire Year - 1988
Period, Loulan.
The Courage to Heal, Bass & Davis.
Internal Affairs, Hagan.*
Going Out of Our Minds, Johnson.*
Lesbian Passion, Loulan.
Voces de mujeres tercermundistas Women’s Ways of Knowing, Belenky, et al.
en los Estados Unidos Places of Interest to Women.
w N Na ANHealing the Child Within, Whitfield.
wd Codependent No More, Beattie.
The Spanish translation 10 Dreams of a Woman Who Loved Sex, Corinne.
and adaptation of 11 Women’s Reality, Schaef.
12 Outgrowing the Pain, Gil.
13 Lesbian Couples, Clunis & Green.
This Bridge *Indicates author's appearance at Crazy Ladies.
Called My Back: Silver Moon
Writings by Radical EL non tid ro en , Y eE an rg l -a n d 1988
Women of Color
She Came in a Flash, Mary Wings, £4.50.
with a new introduction Women Who Love Too Much, Robin Norwood,
by Cherrie Moraga £2.99.
Intercourse, Andrea Dworkin, £3.50.
Paperback . ...ISBN 0-910383-19-7 Beloved, Toni Morrison, £3.95.
Hardcover . ... ISBN 0-910383-20-0 Naming the Waves, Christine McEwen ed., £5.95.
Distributed by Inland, Bookpeople, L-S, Something Shady, Sarah Dreher, £4.95.
Books on Wings, & Relámpago Books. The Love of a Good Woman, Isabel Miller, £3.95.
Bluebeard’s Egg, Margaret Atwood, £3.95.
Esta puente, mi espalda is published by Against the Season, Jane Rule, £4.50.
Ism Press, P.O. Box 12447-F, Writing Lives, Conversations Between Women Writ-
San Francisco, CA 94112. ers, Mary Chamberlain ed., £7.95. O
January 1989 78 Volume 11 Number 5
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:56 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
Printing Granddaughters of Corn, Continued
the type and first halftones are "stripped in" on 19" x
2 sh5" e e tm a as nk di n g m us sh te e bt es. pF oo su itr i o np eag de s s o f i tt h ao tn w o hn ee n s i td he e o af c t ua al Index of Advertisers
pages are printed, folded and cut, they will be in
proper sequence. After exposing the sheet for the All Images Ine. =... .. 48
p til oa nte s, ts hh ee sr ee cm ono dv e s h a t lfh te o n t ee sx t e x a an ctd l y h a wlf ht eo rn ee s t ha en d f ip ro stsi- A Aly Vso On T P Iu b l Oica at rio en s i.. r.. n.... .. . n > .. . T C E3 76
were and reexposes the second plate. Duotones allow Banned: Books... =. > e. 64
a greater range of black and gray tones, greater con- Harper & Row. 7. e e. 5
trol over the image, but there is also greater room for Hazelden.. s.. s a t 76
ErTOr. Heineman... of e s. 3,7
Talking about Granddaughters, Doyle points out Institute of Lesbian Studies..........…..... 54
that even though she did all the production work, Ism.Press. >... rbb 78
what is more important for her "is how the structur- Just Us:BOOks.... >.. e a 62
ing, editorial and design work was done: all by con- Library B:BOOks. e 56
sensus. Over a period of two years, this book went Methuen . -> é e bse e 68
through many stages of shaping, largely conducted NAL/Signet -> >20 b ene 50
through mail back and forth... until all was shaped Ohio State University Press. ......... 66
and accepted by everyone." PPerrgeamsosn PGreassn...g a s . 3 C74
Doyle has designed the book to be looked at, to
be picked up and held. She has made the trim size 8 x POSt Apollo Press... t. 36
10 so the book can easily betaken in one’s hands rather SSt. k Myartlian'rs kPre.s.s... . s6... 0 C2
than left on a table like many other books of photogra-
phy. Along the bottoms of the pages, in a gray bar, Sidewalk Revolution ......:..........…... 39
Doyle has printed the names of disappeared women. University.of New Mexico Press .......... 70
It’s a subtle, but powerful message. University of North Carolina Press ........ 74
Curbstone’s plans are for Doyle to do a book of University of Toronto Press .............…. 72
photographs every eighteen months. "Images and
words," she says, "photographs that are.no less an art
for containing and working with social and political NEA Deadlines, Continued
bi C on oo kf r .o nr m sa ht ei o n su.. c. c et eh di ss . i Is t o iu s r a nf o c iu ms p." o r I tn a n tG r aa nn dd d a bu eg auh tt ie fr us l of c of nu sn id ds e r u n apd pe lr y inth ge i fR e a yg oa un / hB au vs eh (a od rm cin anis t r crat ei ao tn e)s , a s o likely
project. Application deadlines for 1989 are as follows:
papeI r) G n ir sa n dd id stau rl ig bh ut tae er ds bon yf C tho er nd T a(0 lm-9 a1 n.5 3 0 C 6 o- m60 p - a3 n, y $O 1 a9 n. d95 PF si re sl etl sao snw c s Aeh s i sp t ios s t aLf no i ctr ee ,r C a r Sr y ee pa t tMi ev mae g b a eW z rin r ei 1t s ;e r d Ds u i sed t ru A ie b u u gM tu ia osr ntc h 1 P ; r 3 o; S j em cA tas l s- l ,
September 11. Applications for Fellowships for
Translators and Professional Development Projects
Womyn's Braille Press, Continued will probably be due in January of 1990; Audience
8475, Minneapolis MN 55408. 612-872-4352 or 822- Development Grants (for Audience Development
0549. Projects, Literary Centers, and Residencies for Writ-
More good news: WBP received a $2,500 grant ers) will probably be due in early December 1989.
from the funds left over from the lesbian/gay March Write to Dorothy Abbot at NEA, Nancy Hanks Cen-
o bn eW tas th ein rgt on . v T ohe l u fu nnd ts e w eil rl be p us red o gto r d aev melop . a © t2er0, 5110006 P e nnosrylv a ncia a Alvle n ue2 0NW2,- W6a8sh2in-g5ton4 9DC6. O
79 January 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:56 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
The Bibliotective Agency is a search service for and victim support services, restaurants, women’s
rare and out-of- print books. Free until book found. centers, gay/lesbian centers, lots of mail order re-
R.R. #1, Box 262, Leo, IN 46765. sources and upcoming events.... Each area is locally
researched for maximum accuracy.
Lunaria, a new feminist bookstore in Northamp- Send correspondence to : Gaia’s Guide, 147 West
ton, Mass, is buying (used, new, & rare) books & 42nd Street (suite 603), New York, NY 10036. Or (bet-
music. Non-returnable overstock? Library growing ter yet) direct to: Gaia’s Guide, 412 Archway Road,
beyond bounds? Call or write: Lunaria, 90 King $t., London, N.6-England. Phone: London: 241-3278. Dis-
Northampton, MA 01060, (413) 586-7851. tributed to bookstores by Bookpeople and Inland.
US$9.50 pb, 384 pages, ISBN: 0-94792-220-24.
Teachers. Students. Poets. Use our Poetry Test.
Test strength, gain knowledge, learn analysis, increase FBN Classified Ads $2 per 25 characters. 25%
publishing opportunities. Fun. Instructive. $10.00 discount for 3+ insertions paid at one time. Payment
WIMPT 2215-R Market Street SF, CA 94114 mFusrt aaccnomcpainsy c ado. , S en d C toA FB N , 9 PO4 1Bo8x 8882.5 5 4,O San
Women in Mail Order. A regional mailing list of
dealers -- current. $3.00 and SASE: WIM Publications,
2 F2 r1 an5- cR is c oM , a r Ck Ae t 9 4S 1t. 1, 4 .Dept. Rab - LDMO, Box 137, San r hT e ah p va o et r - tA as r- W r t ivhay ea dt, , C t tho hen e t i W n Lu ao ze m ad re an ’ s t i tP lr ese s s h ab vo eo k as r r f ivr eo dm , at nh de tU h.K at.
Hot Wire: Journal of Women’s Music & Culture. t ph oe st . W Til hl eia ym 'rs e- W sea ll ll ia nce g b to ho ek irs oa vre e r sr te op co kr t oed f tt ho e b e U . Kin . the
Each 64-pg. issue includes stereo recording, festivals, Women’s Press Women Artists diary/calendar at
interviews, articles. National in scope; lesbian /femi- 75% discount (non-returnable) and recommend it as
nist emphasis. 3x/yr. 40% discount for 5+. 5210 N. a good calendar to stock year around (at progres-
Wayne, Chicago IL 60640. sively lower discounts) for people who lose theirs...
By the time you read this you should have Inland’s
Book of Kiera Ishtar. Send $5.00 to Patrick second Woman Source Catalog in hand, featuring
Saucer. 2507 Hilton Court, Augusta Georgia 30909. new titles from an amazing number of feminist
presses. This edition incudes Women’s Press/U.K.
Gaia's Guide - 1989, the 14th edition of the Inter- titles and Sara Steele titles. Any order of fifty books
national Guide Book & Resource directory for Gay from this gets you 42% discount. (Be sure to order
Women. Includes U.S.A., Canada, Europe, Australia, backlist separately, so as not to confuse the computers
New Zealand... plus lots of great new information on and lose the discount.)
Israel, Japan, Thailand, Yugoslavia and more. Over
5,000 listings of groups, organizations, bars, clubs, lots PUBLISHERS MOVE, TOO
more guest houses, publications, Switch boards, book- W LacAe Bo ok s’ 9new8 ad1dre0ss 9is P.O B ox- 93C87, S Sea ttl eO
stores, medical practitioners, attorneys, emergency
Volume 11 Number 5 80
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:56 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsMacho Sluts, by Pat Califia, $8.95. “Macho Sluts
breaks through the veils of silence that define,
limit and deny women’s erotic possibilities.
Besides providing titillating exploration of
graphic sexual fantasies, Macho Sluts is also an
informative document.” — Scot Bravmann, San
Francisco Sentinel
A free “Macho Slut” button is shrink-wrapped
with each book.
1 Just Out!
A Mistress Moderately Fair, by Katherine Sturte-
vant, $8.95. “A colorful and historically accurate
romp through 17th-century London with a stun-
ning and well-crafted denouement. The reader is
thoroughly charmed by Sturtevant’s elegant prose
a Wnd ee kc la yrefully conceived characters.” — Publishers O tru ut d eo f S t A eil nl T isi m jue, s t b y on eT e or fr y t hB eo u mgh an ne yr , f a$ s6 c. i9 n5 a. t iG nger - peo-
ple in this history of gays and lesbian from ancient
U nB in teb tc yr ko -k ge re rn i, t t y T P i e h fs: eD e lL . ,e os b f$i a 7n r. e 9 aE 5 l x . - liL f“o ev U . e r n Ts hb, er rb o ey 'k s e C ana r lo o l tT iS me. s o r ehas the E k ilg n luy o swp tt rn a t t eao dn d t bh yle e s sp ce ar r re - is cke ann tot uw. r in sF ti f f t Miy g i u c r hv ei asg e n l ae rt Wet e i ls h l h ao onf id t s e ob mo ot feh l y well-
c anra dz i n ae s ws i dh ee r se w, am tho r oe f r a hw um p aa ni n , b e hin at ve in orse . Te hm eo st ei o sn t, o- the Washington Blade.
ries and Becker's way of categorizing them feel
Rlik ote h ,l e s Bb ai yan W li if ne d o a ws s I have lived it.” — Patricia IO nr lad ner d . direct or through Ingram, Bookpeople, or
Crush, by Jane Futcher, $6.95. “A wonderful high-
school romance. Rich with developing sexuality Alyson Publications
and attraction with the ins and outs, true pain and 40 Plympton Street
joys of adolescent love. I wish I had read it in high : Boston, MA 02118
school.” — Carol Seajay, Feminist Bookstore
News
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:56 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsTTENTION BOOKSTORES:
l accee YYooiu rl i O rders Now for the Latest Titles from The Athene Series
RUSSIAN WOMEN’S STUDIES This fascinating collection of essays covers a
wide range of topics from the patriarchal
Essays on Sexism in Soviet Culture roots of Russian folklore to more current
by Tatyana Mamonova, Women’s Research issues such as homosexuality and the law.
Institute, Hartford, CT USA Tatyana Mamonova seeks to rehabilitate
with the assistance of Margaret Maxwell Russian women’s history by tracing its
connection to the present situation in which
feminism is not officially recognized by the
state, and also to forge stronger links with
the international women’s movement.
Thanks to her, we may find that each of us
has more in common with each other than
with the rulers of our countries.
“Every American woman who cares about
sbistoerohokod . .a.n d —peac e sGhoullod r reiaad t hSisteinem
TAKING OUR TIME EXPOSING NUCLEAR PHALLACIES
eF de im tei dn i s bt y P e Fr rs ip edec at iv Je . s F o on r m T ae nm , p Oo nra tl ai rt iy o Institute for E 0Dd -i 0t ue 8d -e 0 b 3y 6 A 4D 7ia p 5n 6a r iE S. lH o . f tR 1 cu o9s vse 8 ell r, 9 B Ue r S3k $e 5 1le 5y 0 ., 9 5C A p ( aaU p. gS p.A re. os x.)
wSittuhd iCeasor a nin S oEwdtouncation, Toronto, Canada 0:08-0364764 Hardcover US$35.00 (approx.)
Drawing from a broad range of disciplines, including THE RECURRING SILENT SPRING
politics, philosophy, physics and literature, Frieda by H. Patricia Hynes, Institute on Women and
Forman and her contributors elegantly expose the Technology, North Amherst, MA USA
patriarchal nature of linear constructions of time Due March 1989 256 pages
and show how women rebel against these by 0-08-037116 7 Softcover (US$14.95 (approx.)
tcermeaptionrgal tehxepirer ioewncne rwhhyitchhm isn; c lruhdyets h mthse rreefalleicttieins g o fa 0-08-037117 5 Hardcover (US$27.95 (approx.)
pregnancy, childbirth and housework. E WRITING OR THE SEX? z
J00a8n-u0a3i6y4 7 17928 9. 2S5o6f t cpoavgeers Uu s $w14h.y95 y Konu o wdo nit’t’s h naov e g tooo d read women’s writing to
0-08-0364780 Hardcover (S$36.00 by Dale Spender, Coogee, Australia
Due May 1989 256 Pages
NADIGAN NGE f W ; 0-08-033179-3 Softcover (S$12.95 (approx.)
Stud iessc aIdntee r noafti o nPael m Foirnuimst Resistance from Women's: (08.033180 7 Hardcover US$25.00 (approx.)
by Renate D. Klein, Deakin University, Victoria, US Dollar prices quoted are valid for all countries except Australia, Austria,
Australia & Deborah Lynn Steinberg, University of FR Germany, New Zealand, UK and Eire. (Prices for these countries and
Birmingham, UK others are available from the appropriate Pergamon office.) In addition, on
Due March 1989 300 pages some titles, the US Dollar prices may vary for customers in other regions.
0-08-0364837 Softcover (US$14.50 (approx.) Prices and proposed publication dates are subject to change without
0-08-0364845 Hardcover (18S$33.95 (approx.) prior notice.
PU SER: G AMMaOxN w PeRlElS S HA o museme,b e rF oafi r tvhie e wMa x wPeallr Cko,m mEulnmicastifono r Cdo,r p orNatYio n 1 G0r5ou2p3 o fU cSoAmpanies
UK: Headington Hill Hall, Oxford OX3 OBW England
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:56 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsBEAUTIFUL BOOKS
from
Red Rose Press
$13.95
Life Is a Gift
ISBN #0-9609888-0-7
$13.95
Appearances
ISBN #0-9609888-1-5
$13.95
ur existence To Heal Again
clearings through the n S ISBN #0-9609888-2-3
by
/ with illustrations ' TO)
“Possibly the most unusual—as well as beautiful —
self-help books we’ve ever seen. Works of art and treasure
chests of thought...incredibly popular, these books are
perfect gifts —for yourself or for a friend.”
—YES! Bookshop
Washington, D.C.
Soulprints
ISBN #0-9609888-3-1
Available February 1988
Often referred to
as the “Gift Book Press,”
Red Rose Press is proud to
offer four stunning titles
presented in four-color splendor
to keep or give as gifts.
The books, magnificently scripted
by Rusty Berkus with breathtaking
illustrations by Christa Wollan,
take the reader on a fascinating
journey through wordscapes that
uplift, restore and inspire.
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:56 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsCopies LIFE IS A GIFT
ISBN #0-9609888-0-7
Wholesale $8.40
Suggested Retail $13.95
_—___ Copies APPEARANCES
ISBN #0-9609888-1-5
Wholesale $8.40
Suggested Retail $13.95
Copies TO HEAL AGAIN
ISBN #0-9609888-2-3
Wholesale $8.40
Suggested Retail $13.95
Copies SOULPRINTS
ISBN #0-9609888-3-1
Wholesale $10.20
Suggested Retail $16.95
Available February 1988
TOTAL
NAME
ADDRESS Available through all major distributors.
8892-186 (818)
9ZŤL6 VO ‘Oupug
tz XOg Od
SSHèld FSO AHA
MORE THAN 100,000 BOOKS PRINTED —
AND NO RETURNS!
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:41:56 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms