Feminist Bookstore News
Source: Reveal Digital, 03-01-1996
Contributed by: Carol Seajay; Izzie; Shelley Anderson; Mev Miller; Barbe Szlavko; Monica
McQueen; Mary Ellen Kavanaugh; Jenn Tust; Helene Vann; Mary Morell; Roz Warren;
Dorothy Holland; Alexandra Wilson; Tee A. Corinne; Jennifer Einhorn; Richard Labonte;
Nan Cinnater; Nino Ricci; Patty Callaghan; Linda Bryant
Stable URL: https://www.jstor.org/stable/community.28036373
Licenses: Creative Commons: Attribution-NonCommercial
JSTOR is a not-for-profit service that helps scholars, researchers, and students discover, use, and build upon a wide
range of content in a trusted digital archive. We use information technology and tools to increase productivity and
facilitate new forms of scholarship. For more information about JSTOR, please contact support@jstor.org.
This item is openly available as part of an Open JSTOR Collection.
For terms of use, please refer to our Terms & Conditions at https://about.jstor.org/terms/#whats-in-jstor
Reveal Digital is collaborating with JSTOR to digitize, preserve and extend access to Reveal Digital
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist
~ Bookstore
- INews EN
Spring Announcements
March/April 1996 Volume 18 Num beir 6
hn F32479 [6 [ap
FMINa SC Rs al
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Boston Women’s Health Book Collective
In cooperation with The Boston Women’s Health Book Collective,
authors of The New Our Bodies, Ourselves
Sacrificing Our Selves
SACRIFICING for Love
By Jane Wegsheider Hyman
and Esther R. Rome
OUR SELVES | illions of women and
NI... girls risk health
and well-being to please others.
In an unflinching look at this
problem, Hyman and Rome
explain why—and offer life-sav-
HEALTH AND SELF-ESTEEM ing alternatives. A must-read
AND HOW TO STOP for everyone concerned with
women’s health issues.
By Jane Wegscheider Hyman aud Esther R, Rome
ISBN: 0-89594-743-9 © $18.95 e Paper e b&w photos • 224pp
> THE CROSSING PRESS
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
00 00:0 O0: 0 0 0
Little Sisters Bookstore (Vancouver) has won a engaged in The Mystery of the Disappearing Italics for
significant victory over Canada Customs. The Court the last several weeks.... Thanks to Kathryn’s courage
found (after a year of deliberation) that Canada and persistence, we've upgraded from the 1986 ver-
Customs has engaged in a pattern of blatant and illegal sion of Ventura and the 1987 version of Wordstar to
discrimination against lesbians and gay men, that such Corel Ventura 5.0 and Word 6.0. We knew this would
discrimination is contrary to Canada’s Charter of be a transition not lacking in glitches and challenges.
Humaāan Rights, that Canada Customs is in violation of Kathryn has solved a good many of them, but there’s
its own regulations, that even those regulations are still this pesky problem with the codes for italics and
inadequate and inappropriate, and that Canada bolds... So please be patient with irregularities you
Customs has no grounds whatsoever for refusing entry find in this issue. We're having faith that we can solve
to gay men’s materials simply for depicting anal sex! the remaining problems by the next issue.
The decision all but offered to shut down Canada Last issue we ran an article about Fem Books, the
Customs itself — and Little Sisters’ is going back to feminist bookstore in Taiwan — their address is 2F No.
court February 26 to ask the judge to suspend Canada 1-13 Ln. 286, Shi-tung Road, Taipei 11130, Taiwan.
Customs’ authority to stop books at the border. See Phone: 886-2-363-7929; fax 886-2-363-1381.
News for details and the ad on page 25 for books you Yours in spreading the words,
can display to raise consciousness about the case and
money for the legal defense fund. And, of course, you
can always send money directly to Little Sisters’ De-
fense Fund (1221 Thurlow Street, Vancouver BC V6E FBN
1X4, Canada) — legal victories don't come cheaply!
Deadlines
If the last issue addressed global concerns and
global books and publishing, t/is issue is dedicated to
the nitty-gritty: Staying Solvent by Cutting Your Cost
of Goods, a look at what it costs to publish books and ABA Special Issue
where the money goes, tools that do (or don’t help)
with daily bookselling, and a look at how one book- May/June
store launched a used book program. (The quiz at the March 8
end of the issue reads: If your store buys used books
at 25% of cover price, sells them at 50% of cover, and
pays for them with store credit, how much does this Summer Announcements/
cut your cost of goods and improve your bottom line? Sidelines Issue
If you already know the answer, skip immediately to
Cyberstuff and the Feminist Bookseller...) July/August
We may have been reading a bit too much Mabel May 10
Maney here at the FBN office, but we've all been
Volume 18 Number 6 March/April 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsour power,
as women,
Books in the Wild Women Series:
OUR POWER As WOMEN Wi WOoORDs FROM WILD WOMEN
Wisdom and Strategies of Highly Successful Women An Unbridled Collection of Candid Observations &
Helene Lerner-Robbins Extremely Opinionated Bon Mots :
This ultimate handbook for the Working Women’s Movement Autumn Stephens
contains essential wisdom from Gloria Steinem, Maya Angelou, Ear bashing quotes from Mae West, Madonna, Roseanne, and
Geraldine Ferraro, Patricia Ireland and many more! Gertrude Stein are laced throughout this collection which
ISBN 0943233-91-7 $11.95 Paperback celebrates the benefits of having a frankly macha mouth.
ISBN 1-57324038-9 $9.95 Paperback
FOR SHE Is THE TREE OF LIFE
Grandmothers Through the Eyes of Women Writers UPPITY WOMEN OF ANCIENT TIMES
contributors include Marge Piercy, Maya Angelou, Margaret Atwood, Vicki León
Isabel Allende and M. F. K. Fisher
“This book is really wonderful! Not just a fun read, Uppity
edited by Valerie Kack-Brice Women of Ancient Times is also grounded by excellent scholarly
“Engaging, powerful .….. evokes grandmothers as figures of precepts.” -Wendy Thacker, GAIA Bookstore, Berkeley, CA
strength and inspiration.” —Publishers Weekly ISBN 1-57324-010-9 $12.95 Paperback `
ISBN 1-57324-037-0 $14.95 Paperback
WILD WOMEN
ON THE WiNnGs oF Eros Crusaders, Curmudegeons and Completely Corsetless Ladies
Nightly Readings for Passion & Romance in the Otherwise Virtuous Victorian Era
Alicia Alvrez
ISBN 1-57324-013-3 $14.95 Hardcover A ISut Bum Nn 0St -e 9ph 4e 3ns 233-36-4 $12.95 Paperback
March/April 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFBN
Editor & Publisher
Carol Seajay ARTICLES
Assistant Editor
Jenn Tust Cyberstuff and the Feminist Bookseller . . .... 29
Adver t Kis ai tn hg r y & n P Wro ed ru hc at ni eon WAm hea rzo e n ’ Ds o eN s e w th eU s Med o n B eyoo k G 0P ?r : o g Br oa om k Cost Analysis . .27
Art BC oo olu km s n Ti est es Corinne F BE aB k: e rSt a y &i n g T a S yo ll ov ren t L... i n . k . =. . .> oe 3 r7 45
Canadian Books Alexandra Wilson Canadian Content: Going to ABA .......... 41
Gay Men’s Literature Richard Labonte Bookstore NEWS... i e 17
Humor Roz Warren NeWws/Short: Stories.. =... . 7
Music News Jennifer Einhorn
Mysteries Nan Cinnater L Bi ot rt dle e r sS i s •t e Nrs e’ w V i Pc ut bor liy sh eo rv se r a t C a Kn oa ed na / IC nu las nto dm •s A• B C Aa n Fad ila e s R Aej nec tt its rust
Universit yN e Pw r e sM see sd i a M eD vo r Mot ih lly er Holland S Nu ei wt A Vg ea ni tn us rt e R aa nn dd o Pm a n dH oo ru as e A • w aJ ro dh s n W M inil nl ee rr s S •e n Lt oen gic ned / In • Book
Proofreading Update • Britain's Net Book Agreement Dissolved •
Elaine Blake, Sarah Holmes, Obituary: Terri L. Jewell
Kirsten Janene-Nelson, Moonyean, Trivia & Commentary. =. =. -3 -.-.. 21
Cathleen Moore, Beth Morgan, Dena Taylor,
Julie Van Pelt, and Susan Waller D AEPA dR T M IE nNT dS ex =. e 123
Cover Art
Kathryn Werhane B Cac Lk l ato sS sPr ie Hfss i & e e dOth re r A G so dod s N : e w s e r . . . 1.. ... 2 54 49
Feminist Bookstore News
2358 Market Street
415-62 6S -a 1n 5 5F 6 rP aO Fn Ac iB Xso c : x o 4 1C8 58 A -2 65 25 9 64 4 -1 88 98 70 S Tü hb esc yr ip Wtio en n tIn f Tor hm aa tt -i Aon -.. W . a.. y . . . . . . .. . .. . . S i ts. . . 7 1 47
e-mail: seajay @ dnai.com Writing Wanted: >.. 0 e i S 51
FEMINIST BOOKSTORE NEW P S r ii sn tt he ed co min m u nU icS atA ions TAHE r BOtO K SBooks.. SSES e 59
v Fe Bh Nic le r e af co hr e s t h 5e 0 0 i n ff eo mrm ina isl t n ae ntw d o r fk em o inf is tf -e im ncin lii ns et d b boo ok okst -ores. Canadian Books S.S. s. a 58
s Ist neo dr l ie als ,e r Jin s a p a t nh i ne a nU d. ES . n K a egn nld ya a n .C a d Ln i,a b d r a a E r ia u as n r sw ,o e p wll e o , ma s e nAf ’se um ssi tn t ui r dst ia e s lb io ao ,k - New Zealand, G Ha uy m M ore n ’ ss sL sit i . es .t s a S e a W R. a. 6 55 4
t pe ha ic lh ese r s c, o m b po rok is e r e tv hi ee w re er ms, a i np du eb rli s h ofer s t h a en d s u bfe scm ri in beis rt s . biblio- Music NEWS. =. . SSSR e r a 61
Letters, articles, and news items should be received the Mysteries.. iS A a anes > > 73
f arir ts ict l e F s r i ad na dy lo ef tt et rh s e a rm eo n tt hh e p rr ese pce od ni sn ibg i l ip tu yb l oic fa t i to hn e. aS uig thn oed rs. New Media . SSA RAN r a ea Nan Ba W 55
FEMINIST BOOKSTORE NEWS (ISSN: 0741-6555) is Our Own:Presses= S0282 0 77
published bi-monthly in January, March, May, July, Publishers Row = 0. 0" S 115
September, and November by FEMINIST BOOKSTORE
N S PE e OW c SS o Tn a Mt d - A2 C3 S5 l8 Ta s EM s R ar :k P e ot P s lS t et ar age se et e, S p sa en a ni dF dr a n ac ati ds c do S, r a eC n sA s 9 F 4 c1 r1 ha4 n a. nci gs ec so , t oCA. S SH mON a l lR A PVS r e u se s e e s . .r . r r rA R s E S ia i 5 3 93
FEMINIST BOOKSTORE NEWS, PO Box 882554, San
Francisco, CA 94188-2554. University Presses =.. . . . . > sas hapen sus 103
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsTRANSGENDER N O. W IN
WARRIORS ALWAYS, WOMEN IN THE
Making History RACHEL: The TREES: U.S.
from Joan of Arc Letters of Rachel Women’s Short
to RuPaul Carson and Stories about
LESLIE FEINBERG D 1o 9r 5o 2th -y 1 9 6Fr 4eeman, B Ra et st ise tr ai nn cg e , and
The Story of a 1839-1994
Remarkable EDITED BY SUSAN
Friendship
EDITED BY
MARTHA FREEMAN
INTRODUCTION BY
LIEUTENANT NUN PAUL BROOKS
Memoir of a $18.00 paperback
Basque CARNAL ACTS
Transvestite in Essays
the New World With a New Preface
CATALINA DE NANCY MAIRS
ERAUSO $11.00 paperback
TRANSLATED FROM WOMEN
THE SPANISH BY WHO KILL
MICHELE STEPTO: & With Previously
B P PR REY O OO - -L CN I HD F OE I C A END G F MOA ARB RER JWI OE O RL R I EDS T GE BP AYT RO BER t WMU hn a oetp m e u r “ eb Bi nl a ai ’l ss t h to ee n rd ed MEETING THE
M i Dn eo b r ata thl e e D Aiv be or rs tit ioy n $ C1 H6.9 O5 O h Sa Ir Ndc Gover A $S 1Ny 5N .n 0 0d J r pOo aNm pE eS re b” ack G Q B FeuUR mdEE dE iA nhNT ii ss tt B ss ,,L IS anS d the
$K 2A 3T .0H 0Y h R arU dD cY over T W CO ro i sm iL seE n A o D fa n Ad m t eh re ican aRW e a FO d eM i mng iA ns i N s tTG owU aI rD dES A A Kr N Lt EN I E No f C Ath Re O LS Ye Nlf
Values Theology $14.00 paperback
CONSTANCE H. With a New Preface
BUCHANAN ROSEMARY
RADFORD RUETHER
$25.00 hardcover
$15.00 paperback
PUBLIS HING SINCE 1854
235 S ISR OE AEB BO% F ONS MSA 0:2 10:8 BEACON
March/April 1996 Volume 18 Number 6
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
720 E. 13th Avenue legislation that allows it to seize books and other
Eugene OR 97401 written materials entering the country.
Hi FBNers, PEN Canada is very disappointed, however, that
The news here is good. By last Fall — we knew the Justice Kenneth Smith has ruled the legislation is not
store was nearly under — the debts steadily increas- itself unconstitutional, despite his finding that its cur-
ing, etc. rent misapplication constitutes a “grave systemic
Started sharing the news with our community — problem.”
and they are the best!
A huge, very successful fund-raiser is how we
celebrated our 20th anniversary — all organized by
women in the community.
Then Lee Lynch's Amazon Trail column in Just We are pleased that Little Sisters has won some
Out [and other papers, about the importance of measure of justice after a very costly and lengthy
women’s bookstores that centered on Mother Kali’s] battle. But the court's notion that the current flaws in
and then our local paper — which in 20 years hasn't the system can somehow be fixed misses the essential
mentioned us once — did this feature. [Note: It's a point that book seizures are in and of themselves
front-of-section article from the Sunday paper with great unconstitutional.
photos of Izzie and the store — and is one of the best verbal PEN Canada believes that the statute governing
portraits of a feminist bookstore (and bookseller) that I've customs seizures contravenes freedom of expression
ever had the pleasure to read!—CS] guarantees since it allows for the prior restraint of
And our business picked up. It has been the most material that has not been proven to violate any
moving experience of my life — well — the past five Canadian law. PEN therefore supports Little Sisters
years anyhow. We still have a way to go, but the store and the B.C.C.L.A. in their intention to appeal the
is solid and we are hopeful and grateful. court's decision on the statute's constitutionality. It
Izzie also supports their call for an injuction against
for Mother Kali’s Books Canada Customs to prevent the further seizure of
books while their appeal is being heard. Indeed, given
the abuses that the court discovered, PEN Canada
24 Ryerson Avenue #309 calls for the government of Canada to suspend all
Toronto Ontario M5T 2P3, Canada such seizures until the legislation is repealed.
Dear FBN, Book seizures by Customs, which in recent years
PEN Canada applauds the landmark declaration have included the works of such respected authors as
won by Little Sisters Bookstore of Vancouver and the Marguerite Duras, Samuel R. Delaney, and Jane Rule,
British Columbia Civil Liberties Association from the have long been a source of criticism both within Canada
B.C. Supreme Court that Canada Customs has fre- and abroad. In 1993, International PEN, which has over
quently violated Charter guarantees of freedom of 12,000 members in 90 countries, passed a resolution
expression and of equality in its administration of See Letters, page 75.
March/April 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsЕетіпіѕі ВооКѕіоге Меууз
УОЈВ РОВТ ІМ ТНЕ ОВІЅТАІВОТІОМ $СТОВМ.
ПОРАКИ ИЛИТИ Ш ИТИ АН
з %
<. .
аа ә
7
= @
ОМЕ СОМРАМУ. ОМЕ САШ.
ТНЕ ВЕЅТ ЅЕШЕКУ$. ТНЕ ВЕЅТ ЅМАШШ. РКЕЅ$ ЅЕГЕСТІОМ.
1-800-257-8481
ПІЅТВІВОТО ВНЗ , В ІОМОСК.
Магсһ/Аргі1 1996 6 УоІцте 18 Миатрег 6
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsthe injunction, and we have every reason to believe he
will, then Canadian gays and lesbians will, for the first
time, experience a censorship-free period. As book-
sellers we'll be able to function without Customs’
constant harassment and the perpetual threat of hav-
Little Sisters Bookstore and the British Columbia ing orders seized at the border.”
Civil Liberties Association have won a landmark The trial and the threat of an imminent decision
victory over Canada Customs. has not stopped Customs’ harassment. Customs
Janine Fuller, Little Sisters’ manager, told FBN, detained 170 books bound for Little Sisters the week
“We won the B.C. Supreme Court's acknowledgment before Christmas at the height of the holiday selling
that discrimination against lesbians and gays exists season.
and that such discrimination is illegal under the Little Sisters will also appeal portions of the deci-
Charter of Rights and Freedoms. The Court also sion. The store and the B.C. Civil Liberties Association
declared that Canada Customs used its mandate to believe that the appeals board, which will study the
censor books and other materials in a manner con- evidence, will be willing to go even further than the
trary to the Charter.” original decision, in part because the evidence is so
“The judge recognized and acknowledged the strong, because the decision is so clearly stated, and
systemic discrimination toward gay and lesbian because the original judge was “young” as judges go,
stores and authors and that Canada Customs has been and not yet ready to strike down an entire branch of
operating illegally in regards to gay and lesbian the government. The older, more experienced panel,
stores. This case really sets a precedent — it gives us reviewing the decision and the evidence, may well go
consideration and minority status under the law. [It] further and give Little Sisters a 100% win.
is a complete vindication of the gay and lesbian com- In reviewing the evidence, Justice Kenneth Smith
munity and the lives of its people, and for that we are found the “arbitrariness, inconsistency, and often just
celebrating!” plain foolishness of Customs censorship could not be
Fuller acknowledges that “It has been a long, brushed aside by the federal government as mere
hard climb. We haven’t reached the summit but we’re human error.” He found, rather, that “in large part [the
damn close.” See Little Sisters, page 14.
On February 26, Little Sisters will file an injunc-
tion asking the Judge to take the decision one step
further — to make Canada Customs cease detaining
books at the border until the appeal is heard. Little
Sisters will also ask for damages at that point.
“We think we have an excellent chance of gaining Borders has dropped its proposal to expand into
this injunction,” Janine told FBN. “Justice [Kenneth] Canada in the wake of unexpected opposition from
Smith all but stated that he could not find for this Industry Canada’s Investment Review Division, a
action because this remedy had not been requested. branch of the Canadian government. The Canadian
What we're going to do when we file this injunction government has long-standing ownership guide-
is, essentially, give him this opportunity. If he grants lines to protect Canadian cultural institutions from
Volume 18 Number 6 March/April 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
domination by foreign investors. These guidelines
aa SVE specify that investors in the cultural industries,
including bookselling and publishing, cannot set up
AW) NA Ci shop in Canada unless Canadians have a majority
voting interest as well as effective operating control.
NREA GDE DRS Although the Borders venture was set up with a
voting majority of Canadian board members, Indus-
try Canada’s Investment Review Division, according
to government sources, was deeply concerned that,
CONFERENCE with Borders’ centralized electronic inventory control
and sales system, Canadian control could not be ade-
aN Wol Ua AAAA quately realized.
Booksellers and the Canadian Bookselling
NAS aV e TB d EKN A exs pso rc ei sa st ei do n c, o nas c e rw ne l l a b a os u t a t n hu e m eb fe fr e c to sf op fu b al nis h ae cr ts i, v ehad
Borders chain in Canada. Booksellers, of course,
tickets: A Different Light, 489 Castro SF were concerned about unfair competition. Publish-
94114 (415) 431-0891 adl@htg.org ers expressed concern that the chain, with its
U.S.-based centralized ordering system, would pur-
chase U.S. editions from U.S. publishers, rather
than from the Canadian publishers who hold the
Canadian rights. Both expressed concern about the
chain’s potential lack of interest in promoting
Red Jordan Arobateau, Enrique Asis, Canadian-published writers and books once initial
Thom Bean, Ricardo Bracho, Pat Califia, Justin scrutiny had passed.
Chin, Harriet Dodge, DramaDIVAS, Katherine Heather Reisman, who was to have served as
Forrest, Kleya Forté-Escamilla, Odilia Galván- chair of Borders’ Canadian venture, confirmed that
Rodriguez, Jewelle Gomez, Lisa Kahaleole Hall, plans for the chain's expansion into Canada were
James Earl Hardy, Bert Herrman, Tim Höring, quashed in late January. Industry Canada’s stand also
Joan Jett Blakk, Fenton Johnson, Jonathan Katz, appears to have negative implications for other for-
Kris Kovick, Miriam Kroneberg, Chris eign retailers such as Barnes & Noble, Tower Records,
Lombardi, Phyllis Lyon, Mabel Maney, Victoria and British-based Virgin Records.
Lena Manyarrows, Meredith Maran, Mara The first proposed Borders superstore wasl
Math, Del Martin, Rondo Mieczkowski, Jill have been 50,000 square feet and would have dedi-
Posener, Steven Saylor, Robert Shepard, cated 10% of that space to Canadian books. By
Shyam Selvadurai, Wickie Stamps, Susan comparison, the average Canadian independent
Stryker, Te Toca la Tinta, Michelle Tea, Carla bookstore has 2,000 square feet of space.
Trujillo, Karen Tulchinsky, David Tuller, Chea Industry Canada has also launched a review of
Villanueva, Jacqueline Woodson & others Tower Records, which recently opened a superstore
in Toronto, after Canadian booksellers complained
NOW AVAILABLE: that the retailer devoted about 1,600 square feet to
Sundays at Seven: Choice Words from A books. The government has requested that Tower
PITIS A REAA aT reduce its book sales. Tower officials seem to have
published by Alamo Square Press and A o tp ie on ned s s rh eop g a w ri dth inou gt a ot wten nd ei rng s h t io p C aan na ddi a n c o r neg tu rl oa- l of
Different Light, $12 pb., ISBN 1-886360-01-4 culturally-based businesses.
(See also “Canadian Content,” on page 41.)
—Info from The Globe and Mail O
March/April 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
flat discount schedules offered by most of the other
publishers involved in the FTC investigation].
Domnitz added, “Random House is an extremely
prestigious publishing house. The importance of its
books to our members cannot be overstated. This suit
The American Booksellers Association and five merely seeks to insure that all bookstores compete on
member stores filed an antitrust discrimination suit a level playing field in selling Random House Books.
against Random House at the beginning of the year. ABA is resolved to litigate this issue with Random
The suit, filed in Federal Court in New York City, seeks House to conclusion and is confident that it will be
a court injunction requiring Random House to pro- successful. ABA would also be pleased if Random
vide the same wholesale price and promotional House were to settle the suit on acceptable terms, as
allowance terms that it now provides only to major Houghton Mifflin and Penguin have done.”
national retail chains. To no one’s surprise, Random House's response
The suit is similar to the one filed in 1994 against was swift and vehement. Alberto Vital, Chairman,
‚ five other trade publishers, three of whom (Penguin, President and CEO of Random House, Inc., stated that
Houghton Mifflin, and Hugh Lauter Levin Associ- Random House’s “pricing and promotional policies
ates) have since settled with ABA. Of the remaining are both fair and in full compliance with all applicable
two publishers, St. Martin’s Press and Rutledge Hill laws,” stated his confidence that the lawsuit is with-
Press, St. Martin's is reported to be “in discussion” out merit, and added, “We will vigorously and
with ABA at the present time. aggressively litigate the case.” Random House has
This suit is brought under the same federal anti- withdrawn from the 1996 ABA Convention, although
trust discrimination laws as the earlier suit, which its distributed publishers, who utilize about half of
require publishers to offer the same prices for equiva- the Random House booth space, will apparently
lent purchases and proportionally equal promotional attend and exhibit in full force.
allowance funds to all competing book retailers. Simi- Random House is the largest American trade
lar allegations are pending against Random House publisher. The suit includes Random House and all of
and a number of other major publishers, including its wholly-owned subsidiaries, Knopf, Clarkson
HarperCollins, Bantam Doubleday Del], and Simon & Potter, Crown, Fawcett, and Fodor, as well as Random
Schuster, in a Federal Trade Commission (FTC) pro- House imprints, Random House, Times, Villard,
ceeding based on an antitrust investigation begun in MVodeirnn Ltibaragrye, ,Ba ll anatinne,d D el RWey, i Invy,g Psan.t he onO,
1988. A settlement in that case was allegedly reached
three years ago but was never announced by the FTC.
“ABA simply could no longer wait for the Federal
Trade Commission to conclude its epic antitrust dis-
crimination proceeding against the major
publishers,” said Jerald A. Jacobs, ABA counsel with
the Jenner & Block law firm in Washington. “While On January 11, John Miller, the “bust-out” artist
the FTC deliberates, one by one ABA members are who purchased Inland Book Company in the summer
being forced out of business due to publishers’ illegal of 1994 and proceeded to drain the company of all
discrimination.” available cash, was sentenced to 45 months in prison for
ABA president Avin Domnitz stated that a similar bust-out scheme perpetrated against Stilley
Random House had been chosen among the other Plywood Company in Conway, South Carolina.
publishers investigated by the FTC because “it is the Apparently Miller, also known as Fred Stillman,
publisher that has strayed furthest from what we bought the flagging company for just over $100,000
thought was fair in terms of its dealing with chains and was supposed to inject money to get it back on its
and independents,” noting a four-point spread feet. Instead, he withdrew at least $3 million (Walter
between larger and smaller customers on Random “Sonny” Stilley, the former owner, said it was more
House’s discount schedule [in comparison with the like $10 million), and walked away, leaving Stilley
Volume 18 Number 6 March/April 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
s eE A
with the debts. Miller was arrested following a two-
(o1 P Koxe A year FBI investigation and charged with twelve
counts of mail fraud in December 1994.
Stilley had hoped that Miller was “a white knight
in a business suit” who could rescue his family busi-
ness from the doldrums brought on by the
devastation of Hurricane Hugo in 1989.
Authorities said that “After Miller bought Stilley
Plywood, he collected the monies owed to Stilley from
all accounts, but failed to pay creditors. As a result,
Miller created a cash reserve in the company, then
diverted banking accounts under his direct control,
leaving Stilley with the debts, but no cash with which
to pay them. Stilley later found out that the money
Miller was ‘injecting’ — some $1.3 million — was
actually funds that had been sent to a bank in Florida
by Miller, and sent back to Stilley Plywood to appear
to be Miller's cash injection into the business. A few
months after the November 1989 purchase, Miller
walked away. Stilley was left holding the bag, with
creditors calling about past due bills that Stilley
thought Miller had been paying.”
“After Miller was sentenced, he was released on
the same bond that he had been under, until he is
notified to report to prison,” said U.S. Attorney Alfred
Photograph by v W. “Buddy” Bethea, Jr, “That would be within 45 days.”
Stilley said “I think that so many hurts that he did
to people really haven't shown up in court, and you
really can’t tell all of 'em, he turns brother against
Filled with insightful narratives, Sister Stories is a vivid brother, and friend against friend. That is his pattern
portrait of sisterhood—the closeness, camaraderie, jealousy, everywhere he’s been.”
and pain. Brenda Peterson's provocative exploration ranges After his arrest Miller admitted to siphoning $10-
from ancient traditions and tribal rituals to insights from $20 million in various bust-out schemes from as many
psychology, mythology, and anthropology. as 16 different companies, though other estimates run
as high as $40 million. Miller has never specifically
“Sister Stories is both a profoundly political book been charged or tried for the fraud he perpetrated
and a pleasure to read.”—Riane Eisler, author of against Inland (or any other company besides Stilley).
The Chalice and the Blade: Our History. Our Future* Although the court was expected to take the 16
other cases into account, Miller was sentenced to only
“This is a book that weaves connections where 45 months in prison and three years supervised
one hadn't expected to find any, transforms what parole, but he'll have to serve the entire sentence.
one had thought was commonplace, fascinates, Bethea said, “I'm very satisfied” with the sen-
absorbs, illuminates and educates.” tence. “Whenever you get a white-collar defendant
—Kim Chernin, author of The Hungry Self with no prior record, any jail time is great. You've got
to remember in the Michael Milliken junk-bond case,
IN BOOKSTORES they were talking about billions, and he got less time
than Miller did in this case.”
And, even though the judge could have ordered
10
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Miller to pay $26,000 in restituiton and fines of $7,500
to $75,000, fines were waived because authorities had O
trouble finding any of Miller’s financial assets:
While Stilley said he received some satisfaction
from seeing Miller sentenced, he said he believes
Miller will strike again when he is released from
prison. “I would think so,” said Stilley, “Knowing
what I know about him, I think he will.” The fallowiag publishers were inadvertenily left off
Miller had presented himself to Inland as the the list of Login/InBook publishers we published last
owner of several (non-book) distribution companies issue: Madwoman, Wildfire, Paradigm, Real Comet, and
and purchased Inland in the summer of 1994 under an Gates of Heck. Please add them to your lists. ©
agreement that included investing money to
re-capitalize the ailing small-press distributor. When
it became clear that he was both taking cash out of the
, company and failing to make appropriate payments,
David Wilk and Steve Hargraves repossessed the
—Info from the Horry Independent O Women in Publishing, a U.K. based feminist
group, has awarded their annual Pandora Award to
The Feminist Library (London) and the New Venture
Award to Dr. Fadia Faqir.
The Feminist Library (London) was founded 20
Adding New Publishers | years ago by a group of scholars and provides a com-
Kós Book Bistifation, having taken on the prehensive source of reference on all aspects of
Inland (wholesale distribution) mantle, has added women’s life, world-wide. The Library publishes a
about 150 new publishers since Christmas, and plans quarterly newsletter, runs regular events and discus-
to add 150 more over the next few months. Koen has sion groups, and responds to hundreds of inquiries
also expanded the number of titles they
stock from many of their established
small press accounts and has “brought
back” many feminist, gay men’s, lesbian,
queer, and other political backlist titles
from mainstream presses that had been | |
stocked when they were frontlist titles,
in an effort to better fill the needs of their
Inland customers.
Koen is also expanding its core list of
subject codes to reflect the needs of their
new Inland customers. Upon request,
Koen will be able to provide book lists on
topics such as gay men’s interest, lesbian,
women’s studies, women’s history, spiri-
tuality, heath, diversity, activism, etc.
Many of these lists are subdivided into
topics such as lesbian poetry, science
fiction, fiction, etc.
t1 March/April 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms13th Moon* Conjunctions+ Laurel Canyon Books* Relocation Station*
AA A5 fK0 r l g- i cD5 a oi s0 n t W r q i ob uM ru l it d na i o g n P a + r Bez si osn + oe k* s CC C C oo o o up r tem np ae cuor i lr a BC n Ooa t aon kk y B s o o Bn o o k o sP kr s+ess+ L LL Li ib le iii tts d h eob ** ri aa rn y R Pe rv eie sw s Go rf o u B po /o Ck as n* .+ SR R R ai o u gs u ti eln t welg de o d g m g eT aei n+d B *e o o P kr se s Is n+ c.
Alma Books Inc* Creation Books+ Llewellyn Publications+ Sanguinaria
Alyson Publications+ Crossing Press+ Lonely Planet Publications+ Scarlet Press
Amber Lotus Curbstone Press+ Madwoman Press* Seal Press+
Applewood Books+ Da Capo Press/Plenum+ Magic Circle Press* Second Story Press+
Arsenal Pulp Press+ Dalkey Archive Press+ Manic D Press Serpent's Tail+
Arte Público Press* Down There Press+ Masquerade Books* Shambhala+
A AA t uts nit tc a LPr urt te ee ss * B S ooh kse +ll Press+ D E EC cu ck W oe PPU rrn ee si sv ss +ersity Press+ MM Mere iclr ukrc wyu r ePey red ss H Eo du is te io+ ns+ S S Si i nn s oti wes rt e r LV i oiW s ni oi s n Pd uo bPm lr i e c s aM s t+ ia og na szine*
Autonomedia* Eighth Mountain Press+ Mother Courage Press+ Soho Press
B BA O aiv A n- e Dr E rdy oi rt i o InP ns tu l Lb Ttl d ri + as vh eli *ng Group+ FE E au bvr ea e rm r c &go * r Fe abe en r+ Chronicles M MNo yat sh itaie cr d i n Fg ir* Pe*ress+ S S So o pj u io ntu ih fr en xEe r n , d P r I en P src s. e + s sM +agazine*
BB B Bara a err y ay cr t ho i wc P na r d H eLe s ot sd l ++ mBo eo k Ps u bI ln isc h.+ ing+ F F F Fa ac r e et r m ro ar r a i l n P S tr ir He sas tus o* s u & sP er +G ei sro su x + at CUNY+ N NN N e ew we ew w H M a o r oD E b niai *nr r gee t rc ht i o Pn us b l iP cu atb il ois nh si *ng+ S S S Sp t t uai rn e nrs wt h e i r l al &s r tI n , Mk + oT oa nbo r Pi r e& ss +Chang
Beacon Press+ Firebrand Books+ New Press TLA Video Management
Bear & Company Food First Books+ New Society Publishing+ TalonBooks
Bedpan Productions* Four Walls Eight Windows+ New Star Books Theatre Communications
Belle Lettres Magazine GLB Publishers New Victoria Publishers+* Third Side Press+
BB ibe ly io o Pn rd es s Words Publishing+ GG alM lerP ia Publishers NNewew Weosrtld PLirbreasrsy+ T Th hird is tW leom da on w+ n Press
Black Classic Press+ Gates of Heck Noble Press+ Thunder’s Mouth Press+
Black Sparrow Press+ Girlfriends Magazine* North Atlantic Books+ Timken Publishers+
B Bl la ac stk w Ba ot otl ke s + Press G Gi lr oblj ao lc k C iM tya g a Pz ri en se s* + OO ffd y Os us r e Bu as c k s*Enterprises* TTouugrhn Dsotvoen*e Press
B BB l ol ui oz e kz a s r H d Ie nr oP nu F b o l cPi us u sh bi ln isg hing+ G G Gn o ros o ais ys* e w oL la fn e P r E ed ssi +tions O O On n pe ly nT w h o He m a nI es dns u Pe Ps ur be M ls is s+a hg ia nz gine* U Un n i iEv vne er rgs slai it tny yd P ofr e s Cs a lo iff o r N ne iaw
GM ea or rio gn e BB ro ay za ir lls e r P u Pb ul bis lih si hn ig n+ g GGreuye rFnoxi c Par e ssE*ditions O Ou ur ts p W oko er nld E M nta eg ra pz rin ise e* s* UU nn ivi ev rse itr ys i ot fy M ao ssf . Chicago+
Brick Books gynergy books/Ragweed+ Papier-Mache Press University of Nebraska
B CBr arid iog lek ls e*e cn h M Pro eo sn s Press+ H H a a Rr r evt v il eae wry *d & G a yM a r &k s L eP su bb ial nishing+ PP Para hir s o a ePd nri e ig s xsm P uP bu lb isli hs ih ni gn +g U U Un n pi iv v pe er r is s ti it t yy y o o Wf f N N oe o mw rt h e M n Ce x a i rc Poo l uin ba lishing*
Calyx Books+ Harvard University+ Plain View Press Utne Reader Magazine*
Calyx Magazine* Haworth Press Inc+ Pluto Press Vega Press
Capra Press+ Health Alert Press Poets & Writers* Vehicule Press
Cassell+ Health Communications Porcupines Quill Verso+
Celestial Arts+ Herbooks Press Gang Publishers+ Volcano Press+
CC irh cli el td r Pre en ss’ *s Book Press HH uu ntn erg r Hy ou s eMind Press+ P Pr rin oce gto rn e s U sn ii vv eer *sity WPe hte itr e W Pie ne ed + Press
CCitlye i sLi g hPtsr eBsoso+ks* H Iny s Cte or ni ta e+ xt* P Pr ro ov wo lc ea rt e Pu rr e* ss+ W Wi il ld dc ca at t C Pran esy so *n Press+
C Co oa fc fh e e H Ho ou use s e P Pr res es s+ s+ I In nn ne er r C Trit ay d i tB ioo no sk s Intl+ Q Rua Fr Dry P Mre ass gazine W Wild of mire e nBo o k ins+ Translation+
Colichan Books Institute of Lesbian Studies+ Radiance Magazine* Women’s Press-Canada+
Columbia University+ Kitchen Table Press+ Re/Search Publications+ Women’s Press-U.K.+
Common Boundary* Knowledge Ideas & Trends+ Re/Search West Women’s Review of Books*
Common Courage Press+ Kodansha Readers Intl+ Writers & Readers+
Common Lives/Les. Lives* Lambda Book Report* Real Comet Press+ Yellow Silk*
C Co om nap rc i a r Pe r e P ssu +blications L La as ut g h G a Ls ip n+ es Press* RR ede d S e aCrane Books+ Y Zo g a M J aou gr an zal i* ne*
March/April 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
each week. It has been entirely run by volunteers since readers away from smaller bookshops. How will it
1986, making it the only major women’s library in the affect a women’s bookshop like Silver Moon, in
world that receives no public funding. London’s prestigious Charing Cross?
Dr. Fadia Faqir is the Editor of the Arab Women “It is serious,” said one Silver Moon worker, “but
Writer series published by Garnet Publishing (Dur- I think specialty bookshops such as Silver Moon, or
ham and Reading, U.K.). This pioneering series, crime (mystery) bookshops like the one across the
conceived, researched and commissioned by Dr. street, are going to fare much better than other, more
Faqir, reflects the diversity of Arab women’s writing general bookshops. We certainly haven’t felt any
in the various countries of the Arab-speaking world. effect yet.” As the largest women’s bookshop in
Garnet published the first four novels of the series in Europe, Silver Moon has a loyal clientele. The store’s
April 1995, with further volumes due in April 1996. personal service, numerous author readings, and
Other women shortlisted for the Pandora Award large mail- order service all combine to offer an atmos-
include Urvashi Butulia and Ritu Menon of Kali for phere that no chain so far has been able to imitate.
Women, the first Indian feminist publishing house Some booksellers who opposed the demise of the
(New Delhi, India); Linda Gardiner, editor of The agreement are worried that it will drive book prices
Women’s Review of Books; Everywoman: The Voice of up in the long run. They argue that publishers may
British Feminism, a monthly magazine published in charge more for some nondiscounted titles, in order
London; and Ruth Kiesow of Kiro-Verlog, an East to make up for losses discounted titles may suffer.
German publishing company founded after Reunifi- Publishers may also be less willing to gamble on new
cation (Schwedt, Germany). writers, especially if the writing deals with controver-
The shortlist for the New Venture Award included sial subjects, like feminist or lesbian issues.
Dorothy Boswell and Carla Rappoport for Kids Out, a No one knows yet exactly how the new policy
London-based magazine for parents and children, and will affect Britain's book industry, which is already
Xie Lihua, Editor of Rural Women Knowing All, a reeling from low sales. One thing is for sure, however:
Chinese monthly magazine published in Beijing. if independent bookshops lose out because of the new
The Pandora Award is given annually for a sig- policy allowing discounts, readers will too.
nificant contribution to the status of women in —Shelley Anderson O
publishing and related areas. The New Venture
Award is given for a successful and enterprising effort
in feminist publishing. For further information con-
taWct WCom1en A in Pu b1lishDingR, 12, Dy oEtt nStrgeet,l aLonndodn. |
Terri L. Jewell, radical Black lesbian activist, poet,
speaker and author, died in late November. She was
killed by a single gunshot wound which friends and
family believe was self-inflicted. Her body was found
several days later, in one of her favorite parks.
Deregulation, as big a favorite of conservatives in Terri was a founder of the Black Lesbian Network,
Britain as in the U.S., is now posing a threat to inde- the Pat Parker/James Baldwin Society, and a
pendent bookstores throughout the U.K. For almost a co-founder of a black lesbian writer’s group called
century British publishers and booksellers have “Some Of Us Are Brave.” She was actively planning
adhered to the Net Book Agreement. The agreement Chicago's first Black Lesbian Conference, was a former
set a fixed minimum price below which books would Board Member for the Lesbian Alliance, and was the
not be sold. It ended last Fall, setting in motion a price recipient of the Lansing Association for Human Rights
war at the beginning of the holiday season. It’s a war and The Real World Emporium’s 1994 Prism Award for
the U.K.’s 2,000 or so independent bookstores may outstanding contributions to the lesbian/gay commu-
lose, as major chains like W.H. Smith and Waterstones nity. Other awards she had received include an Arts
offered major discounts on popular titles, luring Foundation of Michigan grant and a New York City
Volume 18 Number 6 13 March/April 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
NEW DIRECTIONS ° SPRING 1996 ago. Shortly following her death there were rumors
and concerns that her death was related to those
Celebrating 60 years of innovative publishing threats and that she had been murdered because her
KONO TAEKO purse and the gun appeared to be missing. It was later
Toddler-Hunting & Other Stories. “The most carnally revealed that both were in police possession and that,
direct...lucidly intelligent woman writing in Japan.” —Kenzaburo Oe. while the police were communicating with Terri’s
ISBN 1305-6. $21.95 cloth. March. birth family, they were not, initially, communicating
DENISE LEVERTOV adequately with Terri’s lesbian family and commu-
Sands of the Well. New work. “One of the indispensable poets of nity, a situation that gave rise to misinformation and
our language...” —The Malahat Review. ISBN 1316-1. $20.95 cl. April. apparently to unfounded rumors.
H.D. An award, The Voluptuous Heretics Award, and
Kora & Ka. Never before published, experimental prose written in a scholarship fund have been established in her honor.
D1 i9 r3 e0 c. t ioIn nc sl u Bde ibs e l“ oM t. ir Aa- pM ria lr .e.” ISBN 1317-x. $7.00 pbk. A New Contributions to the scholarship fund may be sent to
SUSAN HOWE ThLe aTenrri s Jiewnellg Sc ho laMrshipI Fu nd4, 8Box8 127261, .E ast O
Frame Structures: Early Poems 1974-1979. “She restores a
sense of how much even one word is saying.” —Poetry Pilot. ISBN
1322-6. $12.95 pbk. original. May. Little Sisters, continued from page 7.
BERNADETTE MAYER errors] are the arbitrary and improper consequence of
Proper Name & Other Stories. “[She has] Dorothy Parker’s an inadequate and flawed administration of the legisla-
bite...and Gertrude Stein’s inventive discourse.” —Antioch Rev. ISBN tion.” He further stated, in his decision, that the
1325-0. $13.95 pbk. original. June. unconstitutional conduct of its mandate by Customs
was not confined to episodes or isolated instances of
& dist: W. W. Norton, tel. 1-800-233-4830/1sBN prefix: 0-8112- injustice, but that it was a “grave systemic problem.”
The 128-page decision acknowledged and
Library Young Persons Reading Award. She was also a granted many of Little Sisters points:
featured guest on the public television documentary, © In addition to finding that Customs’ officers
Coming Out: It Takes a Lifetime. often did not fulfill their duty to read the books for
She had recently published The Black Woman’s redeeming value (thumbing through them instead,
Gumbo Ya-Ya, a book of quotations, and had most etc.), that the officers “too often do not have sufficient
recently published a collection of her poetry, Succulent time or training to perform their duty,” that there is
Heretic. She was working on a series of poems about presently no formal procedure to allow importers
James Baldwin at the time of her death, and two books (bookstores) to place relevant evidence before the class-
that will be published by Crossing Press in 1996, one ifying officer to facilitate an informed decision, nor is
about dreadlocks and the other an engagement calen- there any provision in Customs procedures for creating
dar. Her work was also published in The Black Scholar, an adequate record that would give substance to the
Women of Power, The African-American Review, Sinister right to appeal seizures, the decision stated.
Wisdom, and Calyx. © “The result of these systemic shortcomings is
The Real World Emporium, the local lesbian/gay that admissible materials destined for Little Sisters
bookstore, helped to coordinate a wake and memo- have been wrongly prohibited. Thus the...rights of the
rial. Terri's closest friends set up an alter with pictures authørs and artists of those materiäåls, of those Cana-
and objects that were important to Terri. Women dian citizens who would have read and seen them,
spoke at the memorial and the wake about the many and of Little Sisters and its proprietors, have been
ways Terri had enriched their own lives and the lives arbitrarily infringed.”
of so many others, describing her as a woman who e “Thoserights have been infringed by Customs’
had done so much for so many and who hadn't been treatment [detentions and seizures] of materials
able to do what was needed for herself. describing or depicting anal penetration. That depic-
Terri was an active member of Klan watch and tions and descriptions of anal sex do not offend the
had been the recipient of death threats several years community standard of tolerance was recognized as
March/April 1996 14
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
early as 1983.... Nevertheless, Customs continued to in 1990 and was finally heard, after unconscionable
prohibit, as obscene, representations of anal inter- delays on the government's part, at a trial that ran from
course until September 29, 1994, the eve of this trial... mid-October to the end of December, 1994. It was
[But] no satisfactory explanation was offered by the hoped that the decision would be released in the spring
Crown for the fact that Customs continued to prohibit of 1995, but it was not, finally, released until January
depictions of anal penetration.... Twenty-nine sepa- 1996, over a year after the conclusion of the trail.
rate publications destined for Little Sisters have been The list of writers attending and implicated in the
prohibited since May 1990, solely on the ground that Little Sisters court case reads like a who's who of the
they described or depicted anal penetration, several North American literary landscape.
on more than one occasion. As such descriptions and Restricted Entry co-authored by Little Sisters’
depictions are not obscene by contemporary Cana- manager Janine Fuller, presents the highlights of the
dian standards and have not been since at least 1983, trial, of Little Sisters’ decade-long struggle, and
Customs’ routine prohibition of such materials has includes testimony, interviews and photos. (Press
contravened s. 2(b) of the Charter.” Gang Publishers, 0-88974-053-4). Forbidden Passages:
© The court also found that Customs’ targeting Writings Banned in Canada features excerpts from the
of shipments bound for Little Sisters was an infringe- most prominent and provocative publications seized
ment on the s. 2(b) freedom in this case. at the Canadian border, including work by Dorothy
e The decision also specified that the anal pene- Allison, Joseph Beam, Jane Rule, Marguerite Duras,
tration prohibition, “deprived [the plaintiffs in David Wojnarowicz, Kathy Acker, Tom of Finland,
particular, and ‘other homosexual Canadian males’] bell hooks, Pat Califia, Susie Bright and Dennis
of representations of practices central to the values Cooper. (Cleis Press, 1-57344-019-1.) Both books were
and culture of the minority group to which they published as fundraisers to help raise money for Little
belong.... [It also] constituted an embargo of ‘safe sex’ Sisters’ projected $250,000 legal costs. O
guidelines within Canadian homosexual communi-
ties at a time, in the context of the AIDS epidemic,
when such guidelines have been particularly impor- From Sojourner Truth
tant,” © t h Tu hs e c r de ea ct isin iog n a an lo sot h e dr e s ci rn if br ei dn g Cem ane an dt a o Cn u s tr oi mgh sts. VO1C e Ds ream t Vo o iT cee sr r y of M tc hM e i l Dla rn e, am
as having “systemic defects that virtually guarantee imparts pearls of wis-
that errors will be made” including “Books have been dom and wit from
prohibited without any proper consideration of Black women through-
whether the exploitation of sex was undue in the out American history.
overall context or whether there existed artistic, liter- Original artwork by
ary or similar merit. Materials have been routinely contemporary Black
prohibited on the ground that depictions of anal pene- Womcn artists joins
tration are obscene. Inconsistent decisions have been the insightful quotes
made with respect to the same works.... According a Voices of the Dream bration by a nto d c r e aa bte o ua t joyful cele-
remedy may be granted...” : African-American Women Speak African-American
John Dixon, of the B.C. Civil Liberties Association Edited by Venice Johnson women.
that argued the case, summarized another aspect of HC $12.95 e:0-8118-1113-1 s i
the victory, “This is a declaration from the B.C. A beautiful gift and a
Supreme Court that Canada Customs conducts its rich sourcebook for
censorship business in a manner that systematically women, educators, and
bin uf sr inin esg se s a st h ue s uc ao l n s at ti t u Ct ui so tn oa ml s r i ng oh wts mof e a nC sa n uad ni ca on ns s. t iS to u- CH R 1O -8N 0I 0C -L 7E 2 2 -B 6O 6O 57KS s aAt nmu dd e e r an i rct tas .n o f li t eA rf ar tuic ra en-
tional and illegal behavior.”
Little Sisters has been taking Canada Customs to
court for nearly a decade. This particular case was filed
15 March/April 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsЕетіпіѕё ВооКѕіоге Меугэ
[а. Нел Калле. Кагеп Х. Тоїфііпхку Ш Ш ИЦТ
Оеѕіге, Іоуе, һої ѕех, соо ѕех, геІаїопѕһірѕ, дгіеміпо, ѕигуіміпо,
їїміпо аѕ а Јемиіѕћ ауке - їз ай һеге іп іһіѕ гіс апа магт аебиї
соһесїїоп ої һоп ѕїоге$. Оеіїмегей іп сеап, сагіпо ргоѕе, /п Нег
Маѓиге ѕегуеѕ ир а аеїісіоиѕ ѕіісе ої Іїїе Вот апа Іїуей Іеѕріап.
$12.95 05/$14.95 САМ
РалаЯое: Ясла 1 Роста
Меһеі Үаапі
Рагаѕіоо іѕ а һашпііпо соһесііоп ої ѕіїогіеѕ апа роетз ігасіпд Пе
етоїіопа! сопіоиг Їіпеѕ ої роїйіса! спапде апа їмеѕ ігапзріапіейі
То гоої іп ипїатіїїаг сиїигеѕ. М/іїћ диіеї сопхігаіпі Ігапі поме!ієї
Мећһгі Үаігапі мигїїеѕ іһе јоштеу еїмгееп Ігап апа іһе 0$, Сапасіа
апа Ешгоре, іһе ипргефіїсіаіе йїдһї раїћ Беїмееп їшпаатепіа!івї
еосгасу іп а реІоуейі сошпігу апа іе іѕоІаїїпо ѕошіе$ѕпе$$ ої
айуапсей саріїаїіѕ т.
$10.95 15/512.95 САМ
М. Влецеве Ти. Моппа Оіпотоап
Огем, а ѕооп-їо-Ве їшїу йесідесі айш іаКеѕ ив міїћ һег оп а БіКе
їйїр іо һег езі їгіепаі ЅһейЇу’. Аѕ тисһү аѕ Огем сап"і май їог һег
18їһ Біпһаау, дгасіиаїіпо їо їћіѕ Іеуві ої Іїїе ѕеетх іо соте мійћ а
һагау аоѕе ої сһаһЇеподе апсі сопіиѕіоп. То ѕїагі мії, аї а рау
опе підһї оп їһе реасһ, Огем ѕееѕ ѕотеіћіпо ѕһе’$ пемег ѕевп
Веїоге - їмо отеп Кі$ѕіпо. Јиѕі аѕ Огем і ѕопіпо ошї мћаї
Беіпо а Іеѕ0іап іѕ, һе їїпаіѕ һегѕеїї мапііпо їо ѕрепа тоге апа
тоге їте мйїћ а мотап ѕһе теї іһаї підіһї оп іһе Беасһ. Ѕһе
Іеагтз іо еа! міїћ һег сопіиѕейі їееїіпо$ мії іпе һеір ої Зһейу Биї
Тпаһїу ипаегѕіапаѕ іһаї ѕһе тиѕі до міїћіп һегѕеії їо їп һе
апѕмегѕ.
$17.95 5/$13.95 САМ Квіваѕе: Магећ 1996
Гагде Ргіпі Ебііїоп
Плалом оў Ѕолӯельр Оотпа Меѓагіапе
Мотіпаїейі їог һе 1994 боуетог Сепега/ѕ Амагоі їог Еісїїоп апа
ѕһопіїѕїей Бу Воокз іп Сапасіа їог Пе 1994 Веѕї ВоокК амага, вно
Оіміѕіоп ої Ѕигдегу їз пом ауаііаіе їог іће їїгвії те іп а Іагде ИВТ ГО
ргіпі еаійїїоп. ей Зугоегу
Нопеѕї апсі роідпапі, Оіуіѕіол ої Ѕигдегу їгасеѕ опе мотап’$
јоштеу їһгоидћ апа Беуопа һег ехрегіепсе \мїїћ а сһгопісаһу
ЕЙР: раіпіші! апа роїепііаіу їаіа! аівеаѕе. Ведшіапу ѕирјесіей іо
Півітібшіей Ьу ѕигоегу, Вобіп Саг ѕігидоіе їо геїаіп іе мії! іо Їїме, їо епјоу Іїїе
Годіп Роһіхһег5 пВооК апсіо езтаһівһ һе Боипаагіев ої пеге аз зе із мйїїпо їо їе і.
800-243-0138 $13.95 15/$15.95 САН
МагсһҺ/Аргі1 1996 16 УоІнте 18 Митрег 6
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsBy Carol Seajay Inklings also saw their sales respond to the new
Borders and Barnes & Noble stores. And more super-
Holiday Sales stores are scheduled to open in Houston.
Holiday sales seemed to be all over the place. Full Circle (Albuquerque), in the non-blizzard
The big variables are the number of superstores that driven southwest, reported a very good December —
have opened recently, the weather, the amount of sales were up nearly 10% over last year. “1994 was a
publicity done during the last year or two, the local pit of a year,” Anne Frost told FBN. Sidelines are an
consciousness level regarding the chaining-of- increasingly important part of their mix. “Darwin
America, and if superstores have been in town long fish are saving us,” she said, adding on a more seri-
enough to be boring. ous note, “The Catalog was very helpful.” Mary
My Sisters’ Words, which orchestrated a very suc- Morell elaborated on another approach they've taken
cessful appeal to their community for support over the to bookstore survival in the 90s, “We've basically
last two years, reports that “sales are excellent” — up re-invented ourselves. We've done publicity and pro-
19% for the year despite a poor Christmas season. motion as if we were a brand new store and had to
“Mid-November to mid-December was great, then it tell the whole world about ourselves. It’s been expen-
was over,” Mary Ellen said. “People went very low sive, it’s been a lot of work — and it’s been totally
budget this year. People with money shopped early and worth it. It works.” So does their “Guaranteed
people without money didn’t shop at all. When the Reads” program (displayed prominently, but only a
really bad weather hit pre-Christmas, people did one- few books at a time). “It's effective hand-selling even
stop shopping at malls with underground parking.” when we're not at the store. We have to refill the
Barb Wieser (Amazon/Minneapolis) also display all the time, and it even works with custom-
described the effects of the big, pre-Christmas storms, ers we don’t know well enough to recommend books
“The skier in me is rejoicing but the retailer isn’t.” to — and those too shy to ask.”
December sales this year were about 1.5% behind last
year’s sales — a figure that looks very good when A NA
compared to the rest of Minneapolis’ retail businesses.
Odegards, a cherished St. Paul independent bookstore,
c al no ds e d t h a ef t le or s s C oh fr i s ft rm eea s p c ai rt kin ing g c ah sa i n cost no tr re is b, u tb inli gzz a fr ad cs t, ors in “Nov W emom bea rn s wlin ase o(L uo rn d bo en st, O Nn ot va er mio b) e rr e p evor erts . Ath na dt
that decision. Overall, Amazon reported flat sales for December was our worst December ever.” (A senti-
the last fiscal year, but that followed after a year when ment I've heard from feminist publishers as well.)
they launched a tremendous amount of publicity and December sales reflected the weather, further cuts in
showed a 14% growth in sales. “Flat,” in this case, still the provincial government spending and a radical
means 14% over two years ago. decline in government agency orders. “The Catalog
Fan the Flames (Columbus) reports that sales are did much better for us this year than last year. We
down about 16% over the past three years, due, pri- made a point of having every bookin the catalog this
marily to new chains. They're returning non-moving year, even though it meant opening a lot of new
books more quickly now and working on improving accounts. In mid-January, catalog orders were still
their profit margin. trickling in.”
17 March/April 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Booksellers Want to Know “unless a miracle happens.” There was enormous
Mary Ellen Kavanaugh (My Sisters’ concern expressed in the feminist bookselling com-
Words/Syracuse) and Patty Callaghan (Brigit munity when Crone’s opened about whether even a
o i y aB n tn oo ve uo e 3k 'v n 1s o et 5/ u o - S t r 4gt y 2 o. t 8 t h - P s 0 ee y t 2rt hs 2ee t e 7r e s h m b a oa nu rs r s t w g od P) ee a r v ttb ti r o s ya (et oc dh r k a t a aw v n i 8a w dn 1 e i 3at o dy - e 5 t a 2 oo )t 2r o - c 5 k aa 7un lu 7lso d 5e w i . Mo B a i o rrf o ye k n a l tn Eo ag ly l ls’ e- s . n If wb ac t t sh oi o rt o o oy k as sn e es g t ea p .o s t e r i ri Wme fl fsa oe o r rs tmg — mhe e eI an' y d na a s n c i echd n aB a n v s o t t pes h ht ade o ce eb en v e a c i e n s oonc es rmo w u mm ael c d r o uu p mnc ls i h i a msu t n p y u hp c nl a to e h ip or ta a pt yr v il k e ey t er c w e e b pn no t e o to e . et nf rh e h .I em t a m ’ v si see n p e i o ats bn cit ne ee e g n oo pf en
Kelly Smith at A Woman's Prerogative (Fern- h
dale/Detroit) has had great community response d A N Da
(and new customers!) whenever she’s been on TV
and is wondering if television ads are likely to gen- Internet
erate the same kind of response. Ads aren't all that
expensive — $25 after midnight, $125 a pop during Orlando Books (Edmonton) has a Web page up
the daytime — though the $1,500 production fee is a sa mnd a r tr .u abn .n ci an g /. o rC lah ne dck o> . it out at <http://www.compu
bit of a drag.... If you've had any experience with TV
advertising, or if you've even been thinking aboutit, obta iT nh ee d R e tal h eW iror l d o w Em n p o Ir niu tm e r n(L ean ts i n dg o) m ha as i n ju ,s t the-real-
please give her a call at 810-545-5703. world.com. They plan to launch their own Web site
past aD no dn , n a m oK ra ey e r, e ca e n f tle ym , i n ai s t F B b No o k cos le ull mer n i si tn , y he aa sr s back w pai gth es a f o h ro m ote h ep ra g ge r oo uf p s t , h e ai sr w o ew lln , a sa n ad n p ao cs ts ii vb el y e -h mo am ile list
i ss os ou ne -s t o o -f b e F fB eN m it nh isa tt bsh ooe k’d s e ll li ek re . t To h ep a is ss s u eo sn rt uo n a f rn oe mw or f to ir o n t ,h e a l noc da l dco im scm uu sn si t y i s sto u e n se t w oo fr k , r er le ela vy a n in cf eo r m toa- the
January 1993 to December 1994. Call, write, or mid-Michigan lesbian/ gay /bi/trans communities.
e G-m enai el r i af l y Cou u’d r r l iik ee Ran dy , o r R ia cl hl mof o nth de m B. C# 1 1 V7- 68 Y75 1 3T7, PR & Catalogs, Theft & Videos
Canada; 604-822-2111; <dkaye@unixg.ubc.ca>. A Woman's Prerogative consistently gets the best
media coverage. Their latest score was in a full page
article, “Say It With Words,” that featured a feminist
Traveling Books bookstore, a Black bookstore, a comic book bookstore,
The highlight of Northern Woman’s (Thunder and two general independent bookstores — all
Bay, Ontario) summer was a marvelous “Strawberry recommended for holiday shopping.
Social and Feminist Book Party” in Sioux Lookout in But the article I liked best ran in The Detroit News
July, while Northern Woman's Margaret Phillips was headed, “Without a good feminist book, women re-
on the road selling books at conferences and book ally don’t have it all,” and described a number of
parties organized by women in towns too small to books from the Feminist Bookstore Network Catalog,
have feminist bookstores. The “book night” at the and lists all seven Michigan feminist bookstores. As
Women’s Place Kenora was also a success. Northern far as Kelly and Amy have been able to determine, the
Woman is already planning a second tour for next author has never been in any of the feminist book-
summer and hopes to visit other communities as well. stores — she apparently pulled the whole article from
the Catalog she got in the mail! But what a win. Now,
Crowding & Bankruptcy if we could just get more feminist journalists to do the
Crone’s Harvest, the Jamaica Plain women’s same all around the country...
bookstore that opened “just across the river” (20 min- On a less cheery note, Woman's Prerogative
utes by car) from New Words Bookstore (Cambridge) reports some video theft and a break-in, in December.
seven years ago, filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy early “Fortunately, they only took the cash drawer — but
this year. The store will be closed by the end of March they took the whole damn drawer! It turned out OK
March/April 1996 18
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
as we had already made an appointment to have the Events
window they broke replaced (we needed a new mail Full Circle reports a wonderful turnout for a
slot) and we got a whole new counter — including screening of The Color of Fear. Fifty people showed up
cash drawer — for the price of a new cash drawer.” for the big downtown premiere — but 80 people came
to the screening at Full Circle. “The film was excel-
Feminist Bookstore Trading Cards? lentplain ,” Anne Frost said. Full Circle is organizing a
Kelly and Amy are trying some home-based busi- follow-up discussion evening. Favorite books at Full
nesses to generate additional income, including Circle this week? Rooster's Egg and Serpent's Gift.
producing personalized trading cards. They’re think- Brigit Books sponsored a book “birthing” (It’s a
ing about ways to develop feminist bookstore trading girl!) for The WomanSource Catalog & Review: Tools for
cards. You pick the photo and the border color for the Connecting the Community of Women. Wish I'd been
front, and the text you want on the back, and they put there — but then I have a short piece in the book.
it all together on a sturdy, glossy, little card... Call Crazy Ladies (Cincinnati) is running a great
810-548-7035 for more information or to brainstorm series of forums titled Women Addressing Today’s
how it could work for feminist bookstores. Challenges that includes evenings on Legal Issues,
Book Clubs & Mail Order W imom ee rn Aas s sC oa cre it aa tk ie or ns ) ,(w i Tth e e a n as gpe ea rk ser af tr o m R it sh ke , A Wlzh oe- men’s
Thunder Road Books also has the beginnings of a Health, Gay Community Support (P-FLAG), and a
home page on the Internet. Look for them at program on Women, Children & AIDS. These
<http://ourworld.compuserve.com/homepages/ forums are providing information that women
Thunder _Road_Book_Club/>. They have added vid- need on topics that aren't well-covered in books or
eos, CDs, and cassettes to their mix. They've also that are better addressed in person than in print.
changed their discount schedule and have added a $10 The whole series celebrates the information-center
membership fee for their “Buy 3, Get 1 Free” program. aspect of women’s bookstores. O
BY Lore BoD
k A
March/April 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
NAISA 1001 e
ES
N SERS INTO THE FOREST
by Jean Hegland
| In her first novel, Jean Hegland creates a speculative
fiction that is lush, gripping, and oddly prophetic. Two
sisters must survive the collapse of society alone in their
Northern California forest home. Their coming of age is
Y SSN : A s EvEE as strange and vivid as the forest surrounding them.
JEAN ALMA HEGLAND
“In sensuous, lyrical prose, Jean Hegland pulls us into an
intimate relationship with the sisters, the clearing in
which they live, and the deep forest around them. At
UN m each step, we ask ourselves: ‘Would I do this? Could I do
N NA FATI this?” —Susanna Sturgis
July 1996, 275pp. $13.95, ISBN-0-934971-49-8 paper;
$25.95, ISBN 0-934971-50-1 cloth.
ANOTHER SPRING, DARKNESS 50s Anoth er
SELECTED POEM SY BY S =
ANURADHA MAHAPATRA UL
translated by Carolyne Wright Darkness
This is the first English translation of poetry by this working-
class woman from Bengal. Her voice is haunting, informed
by mythology, sexuality, and day-to-day life in India. Selected Poems U
“You cannot read these poems without being transformed Anuradha E
by the hot breath of the gods, the eternal sweetness of the EISELE
flowers, and the soul of this powerful poet as she mesmer- NN
izes you with her alert wisdom and her gift of song. This is
one of the finest collections of poetry I have come across july 1996, 112pp.
in recent years. You need this book.”—Joy Harjo $11.95, ISBN-0-934971-51-x paper;
$21.95, ISBN 0-934971-52-8 cloth.
Distributed to the trade by Consortium, 1045 Westgate Dr., St. Paul, MN 55114, 1-800-283-3572
CALYX — PO BOX B— CORVALLIS OR 97339 — 541-753-9384 — FAX 541-753-0515
March/April 1996 20 Volume 18 Number 6
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
By Carol Seajay cisco Chronicle column, the inverse would be “a book
written by an aboriginal man about how he came to
What part of “No”...? the United States and Bill Gates gave him $100 million
Canada has said “No” to Borders. Australian and access to his corporate bank account. That’s the
aboriginal elders are saying “No” to Mutant Message. level of credibility at which Mutant Message Down
Borders will undoubtedly appeal to Washington Under exists.”
that this rejection is a violation of NAFTA, the North Carroll asked the elders, “What difference does it
American Free Trade Agreement. The U.S. govern- make if a new age hustler writes a bunch of hooey
ment has complained in recent months about the about some spiritual trip she took in Australia and she
growing number of trade disputes involving Can- gets rich; so what?”
ada’s protection of its cultural industries. The Borders
rejection may be seen as just one in a series of “unac- =
ceptable” decisions. NAFTA specifically excludes the
cultural sectors of commerce (such as broadcasting,
publishing and book distribution), however, even in “We are losing our children,” was the response.
these industries, the U.S. is allowed to retaliate if it can “They move to the cities; they get lost there; they do
prove injury to the U.S. investor. Or at least that’s the not know our ways anymore.... Our sacred sites are
way U.S. newspapers are covering the story. To take a [now] campgrounds, our sacred paintings are post-
leaf from an old issue of Girljock, we respond, Were cards. We want to save what is left. We want our
you born in a barn? What part of ‘No’ do you not under- children to know.
stand? (See News for more information.) “Our children hear what the world thinks about
Aboriginal elders from six different communities our people. Our children read this ‘mutant message’
have recently returned home after traveling around rubbish. Already we are poor in the physical things; if
the U.S. to ask people not to buy Mutant Message Down we become poor in the sacred things, we have lost
Under and to not promote the misinformation about everything. We must fight the lies; that is all we can do.”
the native Australian communities that is published And so the oldest culture in the world speaks.
therein. In the words of one elder, “The book says that What part of “No” do we not understand?
tribal men took a white woman and showed her secret (Please see FBN Vol. 17 #4, page 31 and Vol. 17 #6,
ceremonies. This is not done. The ceremonies for the page 6 for earlier coverage of this issue.)
men and women are separate. If I were to sneak and The Media on the Chains — At Last!
watch the ceremonies of the women, the penalty
would be death.” Meanwhile the national media has been doing a
And if a woman viewed the men’s ceremonies... commendable job of covering “The Chaining of
“...A]so death. That is why this book is so ridicu- America” and specifically the bookstore wars. The
lous. There are so many things in it that are stupid, but New York Times ran a great front-page (!) article on how
this is so wrong. The idea that we would show a white mainstream publishers pay the chains for displaying
woman our secret places, tell her our secret stories...” their books in the stores — and ran a list of what the
He shakes his head. various spaces go for (front of the store dumps at
As Jon Carroll explains in his 2/13/96 San Fran- Barnes & Noble, $10,000 /month; bestseller display at
Volume 18 Number 6 21 March/April 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
AFfiRHAfwve AEn CHAts C0 40 he
Best ScHools
AFFirmative ActvALLy, Get ALL the
Aion = I'M GLAD.
15 white GVys
DCAD. Have Been
$0 ANGRY.
B. Dalton, $12,000/month; children’s section endcap Our own national media has been on the job, too.
at Borders, $7,750+/month; “Original Voices” display Sojourner has done a number of great pieces featuring
and brochure listing, with books sold at 30% discount, feminist bookstores, including one that asked femi-
at Borders, $1,500 to $2,500/month depending on nist booksellers around the country what they were
season, etc.). reading and, more recently, a box titled “Support New
Nothing most booksellers didn’t already know, Words Bookstore” that ran the text of New Words’
but a shock to the retail book-buying community. (I fundraising letter. The introduction to The Women’s
can just hear readers saying, “But I thought they dis- Review of Books’ annual advertising supplement (de-
played those books on the counter because they liked signed to be a resource for faculty in search of new
them. I thought those books were on the best seller list materials for classroom use), ended with, “We would
because of their sales.”) The next step is for these folks like to remind readers who plan to order materials for
to understand that this is how these stores finance upcoming courses that by ordering books through
discounting — and that buying discounted books is your local feminist bookstore, you're helping to keep
akin to buying stolen merchandise. I guess that’s next an irreplaceable resource in business!” Yes!
year’s leap of imagination. Lee Lynch's recent column (which runs in 15
Some independent booksellers responded that papers around the country) offers a quick history of
they wanted their piece of the display money. I think women’s bookstores — where they came from and
it would be more effective to respond with, “We're an why they're so absolutely essential — via a portrait of
independent bookstore. Our recommendations aren't Izzie Harbaugh and Mother Kali’s Books in Eugene.
for sale.” It’s notjust that it’s so much fun to be ethical It ends with, “If these shops close not only are we
next to the revelation that chainstores will sell any- authors silenced on a mass scale, but our publishers
thing — their recommendations, their children, their [won't be able to] afford to print us.
grandmothers — to make a profit, it’s also a certain
cynical pragmatism. How much of that display
money is going to trickle down to independent book-
stores much less to specialty stores, even under all the
new revised co-op programs? How much display “Do we want to [return to] self-publish[ing] cop-
money is going to be assigned to the titles that sell best ies of Patience and Sarah, like Isabel Miller did 25 years
in feminist bookstores? If past co-op money is any ago? Let non-gay editors twist our words, like they
indication, not very much. Certainly not enough to did 30 years ago, turning our lives into pulp fiction?
pay for your soul. “It’s election time. We need to cast our votes at
The San Jose Mercury News ran an excellent article the ballot boxes, but our greenbacks vote, too. Re-elect
on January 21 titled “Bookstore Battles: Chains vs. Inde- our bookstores.
pendents” that’s full of exactly the kinds of ideas we've “[The booksellers] know how much we need
wanted ABA to feed to the national media for years. them. I hope we do too.”
March/April 1996 22
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Most of the papers that ran the column also in- Amendment rights, and diversity in the U.S.”
cluded a list of feminist, gay, and other essential This year’s NIBW will once again bein partnership
alternative bookstores in their own communities. with Habitat for Humanity. If you want a free informa-
tion kit, contact Jill Perlstein at 800-637-0037 or
National Independent Bookstores Week 914-591-2665, ext. 283, fax 914-591-2720 or by mail:
Meanwhile, ABA has changed NIBW to summer NIBW/ABA, 828 South Broadway, Tarrytown NY 10591.
at the behest of various booksellers’ groups who ar-
gued that there isn’t time to do NIBW planning for an Feminist Bookstore Week/North America
event that comes up at the beginning of the holiday Feminist Bookstore Week /North America will be
selling season. The new dates, July 20-27, follow Inde- May 11-19 this year. Watch your mail bags for more
pendence Day, for those who want to tie the event into information — or call FBN if you want to help with
the traditions of American independence and free- the organizing, the merchandising, or the promoting.
dom of expression and freedom of the press issues. =
A really effective NIBW poster would be a blow-
up of the above cited NYT article (or the San Jose
Mercury News article) or leaflet sized copies that could
be slipped into customer’s bags.... If ABA doesn’t do Take Your Daughters to Work Day
it, just take the article to your local copy shop, invest Are any stores doing programs for girls (or entire
$5, and do it yourself. (ABA re-ran it in a recent issue school classes) who don’t get taken to work? It's April
of Bookselling This Week.) 25 this year, and would be a great outreach opportu-
National Independent Bookstores Week was nity to schools and teachers.
created in response to a motion by feminist booksell-
ers at the 1993 ABA Membership Meeting requiring The Women’s Review — in Arabic
ABA to “develop and implement a national promo- Two years ago, Nour, the Egyptian feminist pub-
tional and advertising campaign in major media lisher, promised that they were going to start a
educating the American public about the necessity women’s book review in Arabic — and now it’s a
and importance of independent and specialty book- reality. Nour, a quarterly review of books by and on
stores to the preservation of free speech, First Arab Women is yours for $US20 ($30 for institutions)
Naiad’s Highest Net Income Projects Naida’s Best-Sellers
1. Claire of the Moon — the video (26) 1. Claire of the Moon — the Book (4)
2. Salmonberries — the video 2. Curious Wine (6)
3. The Romantic Naiad (4) 3. The Erotic Naiad (5)
4. Claire of the Moon — the book (1) 4. The Romantic Naiad (3)
5. The Erotic Naiad (3) 5. Under My Skin (8)
6. Curious Wine (2) 6. True Love (9)
7. Flashpoint (cloth) 7. Body Guard (10)
8. Under My Skin (5) 8. Painted Moon (11)
9. True Love (6) 9. Wednesday Nights (13)
10. Body Guard (7) 10. Car Pool (17)
11. Painted Moon (8) 11. Murder By Tradition (18)
12. The Mysterious Naiad (17) 12. Someone to Watch (15)
13. Wednesday Nights (9) 13. Murder at the Nightwood Bar (19)
14. Claire of the Moon Moments — the video 14. A Rage of Maidens (22)
15. Someone to Watch (12) 15. Personal Ads (25)
16. Desert Hearts — the video 16. An Emergence of Green (23)
17. Car Pool (10) 17. The Mysterious Naiad (12)
18. Murder by Tradition (11) 18. Greener Than Grass (21)
19. Murder at the Nightwood Bar (13) 19. Friends and Lovers (28)
20. Go Fish — the video 20. Passion Bay (26)
23 March/April 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
27-month period ending December 1995. (This list is
— Cairo, Egypt. Telephone is 202-355-7634 or 355- generated by the computer program Naiad started
using at the beginning of this period.) Highest sales
don’t necessarily mean the most profit, and maxi-
#11001560007, National Bank of Egypt, Cairo Branch, mum profitability doesn’t necessarily come from the
largest sales. (See sidebar.) And what is most profit-
able for the distributor or publisher isn’t necessarily
wired the money and your address) or you can send the most profitable item for the bookseller — but the
numbers are fascinating.
to learn Arabic so I could read it. A f
Net Income Vs. Net Sales
Oops!
disagreement about the future of feminist book- I unequivocally stated in these pages a few issues
selling. I say that a vital part of the future is selling ago that the Rx for Reading pads were the brain-child
used books (witness leading independent book- of Moonyean Grosch, back in her Womansplace days.
But she called and said, “No, I got the idea at Feminist
Bookstore Days from Kasha (Songer) at The Book
Garden.” And Kasha hastened to add, “No, I loved the
course, the future is much more complex than either idea and passed it on, but someone from a little inde-
pendent bookstore in Kansas dropped into my støre
us her first Net-Income vs. Net Sales list for the ten years ago and gave me a copy of an Rx for Reading
pad they'd made in their store. I loved the idea, but
the credit goes to someone else.”
If You Can't Live And last but not least, congratulations to
With MEN — You Can’t Maureen O’Brien, veteran Publishers Weekly news
editor, and long-time friend of FBN, for her promo-
tion to Book News Editor. Maureen has been at PW
Live Without This Book! since 1987 as an editor, reporter and columnist cov-
The Trouble ering high-profile book and retail news. With this
promotion her focus will shift to shorter and more
With Men news-breaking (and news-making) stories. She has
also been tapped by CNN to be its publishing corre-
-A Wickedly Funny spondent for the network's new financial news
| A Pn aca kl edy s wis it h o hf il ar iM oua s l e ca r tB ooe nh s,avior bch rea an kn se .l , S hC eN 'lN l f an l, s o r e ap po pr et ai rn g o n o n t h i en d nu es tt wry o r kn 'se w Bs i za s B uit zz
dates-from-hell stories, and every- daily news program. Her freelance work includes
thing your mother never told you covering book news for George magazine, Entertain-
about sex-it’s female bonding at ment Weekly, the Village Voice, and as a weekly New
its best! Author Kitty Mancini takes York correspondent for the Sunday Express news-
you on a racous tour of life in the testosterone lane. paper in London.
ISBN 0-9648010-9-4 Trade Paper Back $9.95 “Maureen has a real feel for books as news,” PW
* Distributed by Image Group International editor-in-chief Nora Rawlinson said of the promotion.
_ + For ordering info call 800-708-0558 “The increased attention the mainstream media has
Hype rE te x tPublis Ph .Oe .d B oxb y 42 0 6H 86y p S 8ae 0n 0r - t D 75e ie -x g Hot Y, P ECP RAu b 92l 1i 2s 4hing Group p Ma ai ud r et eo n ' sp u cb ol vis eh ri an gg e l oa ft e l by r e ah ka is n gb e e sn to r d ieu se aa nt d l e ha es rt cin o m p -art to
municating those stories to the TV and print media.”O
March/April 1996 24
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Little Sister's Book & Art Emporium
1221 Thurlow Street, Vancouver,B.C.,V6E 1X4
(604)669-1753 Phone Orders 1-800-567-1662
Internet Address: http://www.netfinder.com/sisters/
E-Mail Address:lsisters@netfinder.com
S
RESTRICTED ENTRY: Censorship On Trial
by Janine Fuller and Stuart Blackley, with a forward by Jane Rule
Restricted Entry is the story of Little Sister's court battle to end Customs Canada's ongoing
harassment of gay and lesbian authors and booksellers. In the final months of 1994, the
lawsuit was played out in the British Columbia Supreme Court with all the intensity of an
old-fashioned obscenity trial. The courtroom drama pitted bookseller versus vice squad,
artist vs. psychologist, author vs. bureaucrat. Jane Rule, Sarah Schulman, Carole Vance and
Pat Califia, among many others, testified in the fight for an end to censorship of minority
cultures and in defence of all people's right to choose what they will or will not read.
A portion of royalties from this book will go to the Little Sister's Legal Defence Fund.
Janine Fuller Press Gang Publishers, ISBN 0-88974-053-4, $16.95 U.S., $18.95 Cdn.
& Stuart Blackley
FORBIDDEN PASSAGES: Writings Banned In Canada
Introductions by Pat Califia and Janine Fuller
This amazing anthology features excerpts from some of the most significant publications
seized at the Canadian border as sexually "degrading," "obscene" or politically suspect.
Contributors include: Jack Hart, Diane Anderson, Marguerite Duras, Dorothy Allison, David
Wojnarowicz, Jack Morin, susie Bright, Joseph Beam, Diane DiMassa, Richard D. Mohr,
Pat Califia, Tom of Finland, Bell Hooks, Kathy Acker, Dennis Cooper, Marcy Sheiner, Ann
Wertheim and John Preston.
Royalties from Forbidden Passages will be donated to Little Sister's to defray the cost of its
lawsuit against the Canadian Government. :
Cleis Press, ISBN 1-57344-019-1, $14.95 U.S., $20.95 Cdn.
DETAINED AT CUSTOMS: Jane Rule Testifies at The Little Lister's Trial
by Jane Rule
"Whether I were testifying at this trial or not, my name would come up over and over again
as that women whose books are seized at the border, and I have no defence against it. And I
bitterly resent the attempt to marginalize, trivialize, and even criminalize what I have to say
because I happen to be a lesbian, I happen to be a novelist, I happen to have bookstores and
publishers who are dedicated to producing my work." Jane Rule
Nineteen pages of some of the most powerful, passionate, and beautifully reasoned testimony
given at the landmark censorship case.
Lazara Press, ISBN 0-920999-28-X, $4.50 Available directly from Little Sister's
25 March/April 1996
Volume 18 Number 6
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsTN a N71)
of NANNERL
MOZART
[RARE
March/April 1996 Volume 18 Number 6
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Book Cost Analysis
Where Does the
Money Go?
While I was visiting Spinsters last fall (while in Minnesota to oversee the printing of the catalog), Joan
Drury mentioned that she'd outlined book production costs for the Spinsters staff. It seemed like excellent
information so I asked if we could publish it in FBN — and here it is! —Carol Seajay
Book Price $10.00
Cover design, art,
Bookstore $4.00 misc. prod. expenses
Spinsters $0.53
zzl
Author Out of the 53¢ Spinsters “makes” on
each book, the following are paid:
$1.00 $0.7S0
Promotion ° Taxes ° Wages & benefits
° Insurance
i ° Postage, Fed Ex, etc.
InBook o Rephone a
anG Prainltelre $y1.50s ° Eqruipempenta, isorftw a re:, equipment
Catay costs $1.57 ° Office supplies
Advertisin ° Legal & accounting fees
Press N ° Dues, subscriptions,
Contest fees memberships
TP ru ab dli ec a t shio on w p ea xr pti ee ns ses ° ° B E rda en u fk c ea rt ec i noh n ca e,r g te brs oa oi kn sing,
° All other operating expenses
Volume 18 Number 6 27 March/April 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsGENDER AND
NEW REALITIES
INCYBERSPACE
of her lies
Nowle's
Se
wired_women
EDITED BY
LYNN C H-E RN Y
E uD tI hT rH sf Almis Rosé AND E RLI EZ BA AB E WTH EISE
Wired Women
Nowle's Passing The Làst of Her Lies Gender and New Realities
A Novel A Maggie Garrett Mystery in Cyberspace
C 1E lo -d t 8hi 7t , h 8 $ 0 21 6.F 9 75o -r 7b 2e -9s March TJ 1ra-e d8a en 7 8P a 0pT 6era 7,y - $7l 1o 50r .-935 March Te & rd ad i et e E Pd apl ei rb z , y a $1b 6 .eL 00y tn hn RCh ee br an y Weise
1-878067-73-7 May
EATTNEOH RE NKsL E! S RF E RR
B “INO T: IS These and other Seal Press
FOR US! titles are available from
Publishers Group West
(800 788-3123) or your
favorite wholesaler.
SNe e
Solo
Trade Paper, $12.95
& Crystal Kile 1-878067-74-5 May
Trade Paper, $12.00
1-878067-79-6 August
March/April 1996 28
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
and rhe
By Carol Seajay March 1st. No paper, no printing, no typesetting, no
distributors, no bookstores, no subscription fee (and
There’s a lot of things going on at the intersec- no income — but then, you'd need much less $$ to
tion of feminist bookselling and the Internet. produce a magazine if you don’t have to pay for any
Whether you're a serious Net-cruiser or a Luddite, or of the above to get your words out). “A very interest-
somewhere in between, it’s useful to check in from ing concept,” as my friend Alice Molloy (Mama
time to time to see what the techno-grrrls are up to. Bear's Bookstore and one of the founders of one of
the first lesbian/feminist newspapers in the coun-
Books try), tends to say. Sapphic Ink plans to publish fiction,
If all else fails, or if you poetry and book reviews. Multi-platformed (which
don’t have the technology, is a bit like being multi-cultural in the non-virtual
or if you just prefer the stand- world?), you can find Sapphic Ink via e-mail <sap
ard book, printed-on-påges phic-submissions@lesbian.org>, by mail at 5856
format, you can read books College Avenue #131, Oakland CA 94618, or after
about what women are doing on the Web. Seal Press March 1, on the Web at <http://www.lesbian.org/
has two new books: Wired Women: Gender and New sapphic-ink/>. Amy Goodloe is the Literary Editor
Realities in Cyberspace looks at what women are doing and Publisher, Tracy Taylor is the Managing Editor.
on the Net and the gender-wars that aren't resolved
by the new medium (surprise!) and SurferGrrrls: Look Reviews
Ethel! An Internet Guide for Us takes readers step-by- Sue Bennett (Gifts of Athena Bookstore) is working
step through the process of getting on-line and shows with other women to coordinate/generate/create a
women how to make the most of it once they're there. clearinghouse for informal dyke-to-dyke and woman-
(See “From Our Own Presses” in this issue.) to-woman book reviews (send a page, a paragraph, a
Spinifex’s Nattering on the Net by Dale Spender (see
last issue, page 73) looks at the revolution in culture reviews to Sue at her e-mail address and she sends them
that is occurring with the advent of the Internet and on to the subscribers. Then the dialogue part begins...
electronic communications. E-mail your request to join up and/or send in your book
thoughts to Sue at <GOAFEMBKS@aol.com>. I just
Magazines received my first dispatch today.
Sapphic Ink, the first (that I know of) lesbian Web site graphics from What's on the Web?
literary magazine, is scheduled to debut on the Web (Internet Media Corporation)
29 March/April 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
There are several other women’s book review shops <your-e-mail-address>” to <Majordomo
groups and book-chats going on out there. FBN’s @vector.casti.com>.
humor columnist, Roz Warren, moderates four Note: “Unsubscribing” oneself from any of these
book-chat groups at America On Line. I'm fasci- mailing lists is as easy as subscribing — if you've
nated by the question of how these free-flowing, stored the majordomo’s address somewhere. Just
non-geographically-bound electronic discussions send the message “unsubscribe listname <your-e-
will affect the demand for mail-address>.”
books. If a book is “hot” on Feminist publishers have their own, closed
the chats, will 947 women (private) e-mail list, Bookbabes. Feminist publishers
walk into bookstores who want more information or would like to join
| around the world, all can e-mail Felice Newman at Cleis Press at
wanting the book on the <Cleis@ENGLISH-SERVER.HSS.CMU.EDU>»>. Felice
` same day? Or will they has also organized Bookfiends, an electronic discus-
only order by e-mail? Will the interest sustain, or sion group for “feminist, lesbian, gay, and other
will it be a fleeting demand? Will the electronic culturally-transgressive book editors and publish-
book-chats, like some print-based book reviews, sat- ers, magazine editors, booksellers, distributors,
isfy the would-be reader's need-to-know rather than publicists, agents, authors and others interested in
generating book-reading and book sales? (”Ah, participating in wide-ranging discussions pertain-
that’s what it’s about. Good, but not *absolutely* ing to feminist and queer publishing.” To subscribe
brilliant? — guess I can cross that off my list so Ill to Bookfiends (and that is fiends, not friends), e-mail
have more time to cruise book chat groups....”) Felice at the above address.
Deacon Maccubbin also moderates an on-line
Bookselling, Publishing, and News Groups outlet for notices about upcoming author appear-
The American Booksellers Association is run- ances at bookstores: You can post them yourself on
ning a wide-open “mailing list” for booksellers the Lambda Rising Online forum on America On
(non-booksellers are asked to “unsubscribe” them- Line or, if you don’t have an AOL account, you can
selves, but that appears to be a courtesy request e-mail them to Deacon with a request that he post
rather than an enforced rule). Not a lot is happening them <Lambda@clark.net>.
there yet, but it may get more lively. To get on the
mailing list send the message “subscribe booksellers Feminist Publisher’s Catalogs
<your-e-mail-address>” to <Majordomo@char- I've got to admit that I’m not yet a Web-site fan.
lotte.spiders.com> via e-mail. Or you can submit Maybe I'll be more enthusiastic once I get promoted
messages to the entire list by sending them to to a faster computer with a color screen, but on the
<@BookWeb.org>. ABA's Web site is at <http:// machine I have now, I get bored long before the
www.bookweb.org>. image and the news appear. On the other hand, one
The GLB-Bookshops Mailing List, organized by of the joys in my life is plowing through a stack of
Lambda Rising Bookstore(s) and moderated by Deacon new-book catalogs from my favorite publishers. I
Maccubbin, is a much livelier conversation. It is a like the different sizes and shapes,
closed, unmoderated mailing list for the owners, the texture of the paper, that
managers, and staff members of gay and lesbian lovely quality — holding it in my
bookstores and giftshops. All “posts” are to address own hand. (Didn’t used to be
topics that relate to g/1/b bookstores and giftshops, something to be cherished, did it?)
but that is quite broadly interpreted — everything On the other hand, this is easy for
from book announcements to “where can I get rain- me to say because I'm on many
bow flag decals in the shape of my home state” info publishers’ mailing lists. For individuals (and even
requests to author tour information. The list is seri- booksellers) who aren't (yet) on those lists, Web-site
ously moderated and most queries are answered. To catalogs are an access route to otherwise hard-to-
subscribe, send the message “subscribe glb-book- find information.
March/April 1996 30
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
So if you're out there cruising the Web, stop by this will be a good place to begin. People can try it out
<http://smallmedia.com> to visit gynergy here. Andit will be a good place for people to have fun
books/Ragweed’s catalog site and <http:// with computers.” More than that, Carrie anticipates
www.lesbian.org/spinsters-ink> to visit, obviously, that whatever shape the techro-future arrives in, “My
Spinsters Ink. It includes, we are told, full-color customers will be used to coming here for it.”
graphics of the book covers, excerpts, author tour
information and book reviews. Future plans include JO men's Wire
on-line author interviews, a book discussion group,
a “guest book” for visitors and “coupons and con-
tests.” Spinsters Ink made it to the electronic waves
with the help of Virtual Sisterhood’s volunteer devel-
opers. Contact Virtual Sisterhood at <http://www
.igc.apc.org/vsister>. The computers will run on dedicated ISDN
lines (which transmit information about three times
Of CyberCafés & Bookstores faster than modems). Carrie anticipates charging
Of course none of this information is useful to about $10/hour (based on ten-minute increments)
people withoutaccess. Whether women are 10% or 38% as well as renting “mail boxes” (e-mail addresses).
of the cyber-population (and authoritative statistics The café-and-computer area juts out into the side-
vary), it isn't enough. Cyber-cafes are springing up in walk, providing visibility and giving would-be
large cities — two have particular missions. patrons a chance to ease their way into this techno-
Kokobar, Brooklyn’s first African American- and logical revolution.
woman-owned cybercafé/bookstore is committed to
creating an information superhighway on-ramp for Of Web Pages and Morning Coffee
people of color. Started by Angel Williams and “Is having a Web page worthwhile?” FBN asked
Rebecca Walker, it’s at 59 Lafayette, Brooklyn NY Carrie. Her answer? Carrie says that PLU averages
10017; 718-243-9040. Or better yet, call them in cyber- about 90 hits a day that lead to sales to people as close as
space at <kokobar@nyo.com>. down the street and as far away as Malaysia. Most sales
When Carrie Barnett expanded Chicago's People still come in via phone or fax (people don’t yet have
Like Us Bookstore (PLU), she included a 500-square- confidence in charge-card numbers being secure on the
foot cybercafé. “I'd Net). “It definitely generates sales — certainly enough to
been thinking about it pay for the monthly fee for having the Web site up.”
for the last three years,” “When do you find time to answer all the e-mail
she told FBN. “It seems queries?” we asked.
to me that bringing “I come in earlier,” was the challenging answer.
computers into the
bookstore, as an inte- Note: E-mail and
gral part of the mix of what we already provide, is the Web site addresses are set SXTIXIC g greit
best way to be prepared — and positioned — for what- off by brackets — but the s Midwifery
ever forms the book takes in the 21st century. brackets are not part of the
“There’s a lot of great lesbian stuff out there on the address. This convention WSB
Web,” Carrie says, “and women want to find it.” She helps avoid small but * N n
expects to have four computers up and running in the important confusions, such as, “Is that period at the end
next month or so. The PLU computers will be set up on of the address part of the address — and necessary to make
a menu-based system (linked Web pages) that’s easy for connection, or is it the period at the end of the sentence
beginners to navigate and routes them to areas of inter- (and will prevent making connection if I include it in the
est. Carrie's goal is to provide instant success, even for address)?” If it's in the brackets, it's part of the address. If
the un-initiated. “Eventually people will integrate it’s not, it ain't. Essential info for the cybergrrrls, but a bit
computers into their own homes,” she anticipates, “but of a challenge for the rest of the readers! O
31 March/April 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsALONG THE JOURNEY RIVER Renee LaRoche is caught up in these events,
A Mystery drawn by the traditions of her tribe and honor of her
Carole laFavor ily into tracking the thieves and investigating the
ng. As she struggles to sustain a new relationship
h Samantha Salisbury, a visiting women’s studies
r at the white college in nearby Granite Rock,
nds herself torn between the ways of her
and helping her chimook lover come to terms
he differences in their cultures.
cplaoptehr ISISBBNN 1 - 516-35461-304710--2071-0
192 pages
oad trip include a new eating ex-
Erotica
r friend in cyberspace planning a
ilight Zone at Michigan
n with gentle hands, sharp fin-
and strong hearts. They are
us. Proud. Women who
se, moan and talk dirty.
panting for more.
ISBN 1-56341-072-9
ISBN 1-56341-073-7
152 pages
the hot-button issues of the headlines she has cov-
ered as both beat reporter and social critic: gender,
race, class, AIDS, terrorism, abortion, the religious
right, global war. Whether deconstructing the body
Too Queer is widely published and highly controver- or the body politic, Brownworth elucidates an anti-
sial lesbian journalist Victoria A. Brownworth’s re- assimilationist, broadly multicultural, and fiercely
vealing collection exploring the contours of her per- iconoclastic vision of American radicalism—a politi-
sonal and political radicalism. Lesbian, feminist, cal perspective she fears is becoming eroded even
writer, Catholic, leftist, and political activist—she within the communities for which it is most vital.
probes her own political roots and raises questions $13.95 paper ISBN 1-56341-074-5
about what it means to be living a radical life in an $26.95 cloth ISBN 1-56341-075-3
increasingly neoconservative society. May 256 pages
In crisp and cogent prose, the author examines
Hot Stuff!
March/April 1996 32
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Recycling
By Mev Miller selling used books was a way to go. Also, we've been
Amazon Bookstore selling remainders in the store (thanks to Donna
Marie, the remainder maven) for a couple of years
It was a Kodak moment, really. Unfortunately, with good success. We know our customers are
none of us had a camera. On January 13, 1996, I found always looking for those wonderful bargains. After
myself at 3:00 in the afternoon entirely surrounded by some consideration, and conversations with several
a filled-up book cart, many tall piles of books, several people around the country, we were convinced that
dozen boxes and bags, and several customers. It was selling used books could dramatically affect our sales
the First Official Used Book Buying Day at Amazon for the better. And so it came to pass...
Bookstore. To say it was a success would be an incred-
ible understatement. So how did we get to this point?
For many years, our customers asked if we'd ever It was the First Official
consider selling used books. Generally, the answer
was a resounding “No!” Our concerns were typical: it Used Book Buying Day at
would undercut our new books sales, we'd have no
Amazon Bookstore.
place to put them, who wants to deal with the s***
people would try to foist on us, how could we finan-
cially afford to buy them, and, basically, we'd never TO say it was a success
have the time to manage it!
But in our quest to respond to our customers and would be an
f ti in vd e nn eew ss w aay ns d o f o ng -ai gn oin ig n g a n d c o m mai mnt uai nni in tg y c o sm up pe pti o- rt, we incredible understatement.
decided that now was a good time to try this used
book thing. Well, actually, I opened my mouth one
day and said if the managers ever got to a point of After the decision was made, my job was to create
seriously considering it, I'd be interested in and will- the system for how Amazon would handle the buying
ing to manage it. That was the proverbial straw and and re-selling of used books. What books would we
definitive enticement. Barb had attended a workshop take? All subjects? Just a few? How would we know
on selling used books at ABA, facilitated by inde- when we had enough stock? At what discounts would
pendent bookstore people who managed a store that we buy and sell the books? How would we determine
primarily sells new books but which also has a used prices? Would we give credit? Cash? Both? Where
book component. The workshop convinced her that would they be shelved? How would we track sales?
33 March/April 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
What would our budget be? Would customers be able a long time [among our customers]. As the buying
to drop off books any time? Only at certain times? day drew nearer, the anticipation was palpable.
How would it work through our registers and ac- When The Day arrived — a Saturday, of course —
counting system? How would the books be marked? customers arrived early with boxes and bags. I had
How would we avoid confusion with the new books set-up a large table in the back of the store with
already on the shelf? How would we resolve general everything I needed at hand to do the receiving /proc-
security /theft/dishonesty problems? What would essing. While they waited for their turn (I had a
we do with rejected books — the ones our customers take-a-number system ready), customers went up the
left that we didn’t want to buy? What would we do if block to the coffeeshop, or had breakfast at Ruby’s
something sat on the shelf for too long? I should (the lesbian-owned breakfast place next door) — or
probably state the obvious here. We, of course, only wandered the store making a pile of new books they
buy and sell used books within the context of what would buy with their credit slips!
our store is — feminist, women’s, lesbian. It was fun to watch women take their turns.
The mechanical questions are ones we answered They'd carefully put their new book pile to the side
through a combination of information: Barb’s notes to keep them from getting mixed up with their used
from the workshop, Patty Callaghan’s articles in books on the table. They couldn't wait to use their
Feminist Bookstore News and the FB-Network news- credit and take their new treasures home! And it was
letter, informal conversations with other feminist clear these were books that probably would have
booksellers with used book sections, the short article gone unbought otherwise! Easily a third to half of the
in the ABA's A Manual on Bookselling, a quick poll of credit slips issued that day were partially — or
the used book dealers in the Twin Cities, and consid- entirely — redeemed that very day. The store was
eration of what would best work for us and our packed the entire day. Sales for the day far exceded
customers. our “normal” Saturday sales. In fact, they were way
Once we decided it was a good thing to do, we above “average” sales for a really good Saturday, by
started spreading the word to our customers. We put the amount of credit slips redeemed and then some.
an article in our newsletter, sent press releases to So it seems clear that, for this day at least, we signifi-
community papers, put an e-mail notice on the Uni- cantly increased sales of new books by buying used
versity of Minnesota Gopher system, sent flyers to books. And the whole place had a party atmosphere.
professors at the universities and other likely-to-be- What fun!
interested people and organizations, placed flyers on e
the front counter, and put a big poster in the window. u
We announced we would begin to sell used books
and planned to have an initial special day for the It’s still too soon to know what the overall bene-
buying of used books. It wasan enticing offer — 30% fits of selling used books will be. I must say that at the
of retail price if the customer took store credit, 15% if end of the buying day — in addition to being totally
they wanted cash. (By the way, 110 one opted for cash!) exhausted — I couldn't help but second guess
The moment the word got out, we started getting whether or not we had done the right thing. Did we
phone calls. Customers were giddy with excitement. give too much credit? Did I make bad decisions about
The prospect of being able to unload (on my better what books to take? Did I take too many that wouldn't
days I call it recycling) no longer wanted books cre- sell? How was I going to get them all processed/
ated a level of enthusiasm we hadn't experienced in labeled and shelved in a timely way? What if they
didn’t sell much at all?! Are our resale prices too high?
You know, typical neophyte buyers’ questions. On
Sunday, I tried to get at least 2-3 shelves of used books
out on the sales floor. Within half a day, they were
already taking off and a lot of books sold right away.
It helped that the sales clerk working that day asked
each customer, “Did you see our used books section?”
March/April 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
each customer, “Did you see our used books section?” some loyalty from women who haven’t consistently (or
Customers would respond, “Wow!” and immediately ever) shopped at Amazon in the past. We're confident
trot back to have a look! It was an enormous boost. So, that selling used books, in general, will be good for the
generally, I’m feeling a little more at ease with it. financial health and community support of the store.
T'll write more about our system and policies after
we've had a little more time to find the kinks and work
It seems clear that, out the bugs. In the meantime, if you're interested in the
details give me a call or let's chat at ABA.
for this day at least,
Update as FBN goes to press:
we significantly increased FBN checked in with Mev and Barb Wieser about
sales of new books sales so f Ta hr: e first week Amazon had used books out on
the shelves, they sold $500 in used books with no
by buying used books. advertising or further promotion.
“We issued a total of about $3,000 in credit slips
that first day. (No one asked for cash.) About $1,300 of
What is clear, though, is the kudos and excite- that was used the first day against new books.
ment of our customers. They are thrilled. During the “We'll charge about twice what we paid for the
day, I overheard remarks such as: “I'm so glad you're used books, so the stock we bought (if we bought well
doing this.” “I will probably shop here'more now that and it all sells) will be worth about $6,000 retail; but we
I know you have used books.” “This might help me to purchased them with credit. Given that we pay about
find some of the older, harder to get books I've been 60% for new books, it’s safe to say that we will have
looking for.” (Amazon knows some popular, out-of- actually ‘paid’ $1,800 for $6,000 inventory of used books.
print books are bound to surface in this project.) “I (If the credit slips are applied to used books, the total cost
can't wait to see what will be in the used books sec- will be even lower.) And we've already earned $500
tion.” “When do they go on sale?” “This will certainly (about 30%) of the purchase price back. And that doesn’t
help me to buy more books.” “My budget is tight, so begin to count the goodwill.”
I can't usually buy everything I want, this will help.” How much shelf space is Amazon giving to used
“The library doesn’t have nearly the selection you books? “We're devoting three bookcases (7 shelves
have.” “I like to buy used books but the other stores high x 4’) to a mix of used books and remainders
don’t have much of a selection in the books I want.” (about 12% of Amazon’s total shelf space). The
“Some of the youth may be able to afford books now.” used/remainder mix is about 50/50.
(As a footnote here, I know many g/1/b/t youth in “Customers are already asking us when we'll be
our community don’t have much in the way of buying again, but we're going to wait until we've
expendable income. It’s been said by those working made a dent in the stock we already have.” O
with youth, that they pass books along among them-
selves — but rarely have the opportunity to buy that
first copy. Selling used books may help them to finan-
cially have more access to the books they want. This
observation could probably be expanded to include
students and women with limited income.)
So, we'll let you know how it goes. We're following
up our advertising with in-store and. newsletter an-
nouncements that the used books are now available —
and we're taking out ads in the local community
papers. We're already off to a good start in creating
goodwill among our customers and perhaps building
35
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
AREN
NAVAA a AM AN
OLD
LIVE OVER
WOMAN
I1 01 Aa IINA
MGa
WEAR
DAISIES PURPLE
IF I HAD MY LIFE THREADS OF EXPERIENCE: WHEN I AM
TO LIVE OVER I WOULD IMAGES BY AN OLD WOMAN
PICK MORE DAISIES DEIDRE SCHERER I SHALL WEAR PURPLE
1997 WALL CALENDAR 1997 WALL CALENDAR 1997 WALL CALENDAR
Celebrating women who rel- Deidre Schere’s exquisite Twelve heartwarming
ish life and all its possibili- fabric-and-thread images are excerpts and favorite photos
ties, this lovely wall calendar featured in this tribute to men from the million-copy best-
offers twelve duotone photos and women and their rich ex- seller are featured in this
and delightful excerpts from periences in growing old. poignant and beautiful
the bestseller, 1/7 Had My Life 12 x 12, full-color cover, calendar.
to Luwe Over I Would Pick More 12 full-color fabric-and-thread im-
Daisies. ages, staple-bound, shrinkwrapped 12 x 12, full-color cover,
0-918949-90-4, $12.95 12 duotone photographs,
12 x 12, full-color cover, staple-bound, shrinkwrapped
12 duotone photographs, 0-918949-94-7, $10.95
staple-bound, shrinkwrapped
0-918949-95-5, $10.95
6C07
March/April 1996 36
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Taking Care of Business
By Carol Seajay $10,000 deficit at the end of the year. Not good. Not yet
a crisis, and definitely time to take action.
Sales are down. You've cut all the overhead
expenses you can think of (and maybe a few more than The Theory
you should have), cut stock a bit, cut staff hours where FBN talked to Amazon's accountant/book-
you could, and (perhaps hardest of all) keeper, Nan Kinney, who works three
laid-off any staff members that weren't days a week, on contract, for Amazon
pulling their weight. You may firmly
are getting big enough that they’re going don’t have any extra to trim off over-
to start eating each other instead of head. You can’t cut rent, you can't do
now.... But the big question stays the already keep overhead as low as possi-
same: how to survive long enough to be ble and live on a bare bones operating
The next place to focus is cutting overhead is often referred to as ‘fixed
your cost of goods. This article grew out costs.’ You don’t have much control
and, particularly, out of conversations drastic steps, like moving or canceling
with the staff at Amazon (Minneapolis). your insurance. Amazon doesn’t have
by 2%, any employee expense accounts to cut,
Amazon is in that too-familiar i no cell phones to take away....
“interesting” position: Sales were up a that will save more “Cost of goods,” Nan adds, “Are
phenomenal 14% year-before-last. money than also called ‘variable costs,’ implying
Amazon budgeted a seemingly conser- that you have more control over them
vative 5% increase for this last fiscal year — like working with publishers who
each month mirroring the (very success- “So we decided to go after cutting
ful) year-before. It was clear that the 5% the cost of goods. In bookstores, the cost
growth projection was overly optimistic in Minneapolis’ of goods is larger than the overhead, so if you can cut
super-store environment (where Odegard Books is cost of goods by 2%, that will save you more money
closing up shop as we write this piece). Expenses had than cutting overhead by 2%. And it will be a lot more
gone up (Amazon did raises during the good year), so, productive than spending the same amount of energy
if all things stayed the same, they were projecting a trying to cut your phone bill by 2%.”
Volume 18 Number 6 37 March/April 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Th e S i tC uu atr ir oe nnt By 2% of Goods ReBduycin g 2Co%st
Total Book Sales $500,000 100% $500,000 100% $500,000 100%
Cost of Goods 305,000 61% 305,000 61% 295,000 59%
Gross Margin 195,00 39% 195,000 39% 205,000 59%
Overhead 205,000 41% 200,900 40% 205,000 41%
Net Profit (10,000) -2% (5,900) -1% 0%
For example, if your overhead is $200,000 and figure from the previous cost of goods at 60% which
you manage to cut it by 2%, you've saved $4,000. But was $300,000, and came up with $6,000. That looked
if your cost of goods is $300,000 and you save 2% good, and was a good deal, better than the $4,000
you've saved $6,000. savings you'd earn if you cut 2% from the overhead
But, actually, it’s better than that, because of how costs — but it was only part of the story. The real story
you figure overhead and cost of goods. If you can save here is a $10,000 savings if cost of goods can be cut by
2% on the cost of goods, you actually save $10,000. If 2%. And that’s 4 lot better even than a $6,000 savings.)
you already know that, fast-forward to the section In Amazon's case, if they can cut their cost of
titled “How To Do It,” below. Or you can take it on goods by 2%, they'll save approximately $10,000 —
faith and skip to “How To Do It.” Or better yet, read which is exactly the amount their current projections
(and re-read as necessary) the next few paragraphs say they/ll be in the hole by the end of their fiscal year
until this tool is yours and you know how to apply it if everything else stays the same. Given that cutting
to your own situation: the cost of goods by 2% looks to be — well, not easy,
Overhead is based on actual expenses, not on but a lot less painful than, say, cutting salaries by
sales. So you'd figure a 2% savings on overhead exactly $10,000 — there’s a lot of incentive. It’s the direction
as we did two paragraphs back: 2% of the total cost of they've decided to go.
overhead. (Overhead for bookstores normally runs OK, the theory is nice. It's even pretty — if it’s
about 40% — lower is better, of course.) For a store workable. But how do you do it?
doing $500,000 a year, a 40% overhead comes to
$200,000. ($500,000 x 40% = $200,000.) If you can cut How To Do It
that by 2%, you save 2% of your actual overhead. For If you were a mega-chain, you'd probably be
our $500,000/ year store, that’s 2% of $200,000 = $4,000, able to “negotiate” better terms with your suppliers
just like in the example above. OK, you know all of (which is what the ABA lawsuit implies chains and
that. Right — that’s the simple-and-obvious part. warehousers have done). If you're an independent
Cost of goods is a little more complicated. It’s bookstore, your opportunities to work with “vari-
based on sales. If cost of goods is 60% and sales total able costs” are a lot less dramatic, but they are there:
$500,000, then the cost of goods is $300,000. ($500,000 Some stores have already changed their “merchan-
x 60% = $300,000). But if you save 2% on the cost of dise mix” to include more sidelines that carry a 50%
goods, then your new cost of goodsis58%, rather than discount (although their reasons for expanding their
60%. So you multiply total sales by the new cost of sidelines selection may have had as much to do with
goods, 58%. ($500,000 x 58% = $290,000) and your cost creating the ambiance they want as with improving
of goods is now $290,000 rather than $300,000 — a the bottom line). Other stores have added used
savings of $10,000 that goes directly to the bottom books to their mix (50% discount — no freight) for
line. (Back at the beginning of this section we multi- similar reasons. (See “Used Book Saturday” else-
plied the 2% savings for cost of goods times the old where in this issue.)
March/April 1996 38
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
“We want to cut our cost of goods by 2% this
year,” Nan told FBN, “So what we’re doing is order- Amazon's Direct Order List
ing from publishers that give us a bigger margin than : Free
the distributors do. It takes more work and a lot more Discount Freight Min.
thought, but we're doing it. That’s it in a nutshell. It’s
our goal for the rest of the year.” Ballantine 44% mass / 25
Barb Wieser and Donna Niles order most of the 43% trade 25
books for Amazon. “It's a lot easier to order all of your 45% trade 100
books from distributors. It’s easy and we've gotten Bantam, etc. 44% mass / $50 net
kind of used to that,” Barb told FBN. “But if we can
cut our cost of goods even a little bit, we're not going Crossing 4 6% 4 2res %t y 25
wto o r b the i an l ot th e o fh o ‘l ee x ta rt a ’ t whe o r ken .d of the year. And that’s FSG/Beacon 40% / 10
“Some of the publishers — such as Penguin, $t. 41% y 50
Martin's, Random House, Norton, Harper, Ballantine, HBJ 40% v 10
Crossing and Naiad give much better discounts than 42% / 50
you can get from distributors and wholesalers. Har-
per has low minimums and excellent discounts — Houghton Mifflin 47% 16
they really make it worth ordering direct. Some pub- Little Brown 46% 25
lishers give better discounts but aren't worth your Wm. Morrow 42% 25
time if they don’t give free freight: If it doesn’t save Naiad 50% 5
you money, don’t waste your time! Some, like Warner, Norton 41% Y 15
have bigger minimums but the discounts are really
good when you do get them. A lot of the mass market P Re an ng du oin m 4 6 4% 3% v 2 1 50
houses are good, too. I looked up all the publishers we
get a lot of books from (in the Book Buyer's Handbook) S & S/Macmillan 47% any quantity
and made a list of the discounts they offer, their mini- St. Martin’s 43% no min.
mums, and their free freight terms.” (See sidebar.)
Warner 44% mass Y
Writing The Orders 45% trade y $75 net
“We do a restock report every Monday. We used to combination
turn around and order most of those books from dis-
tributors. Now our process is a bit more thoughtful. If Distributor Terms to Keep in Mind
we need the book this week, or if we have a special B&T 40% x 1
order, we order it from a distributor. And, obviously, if 41% SVa 5
we can't get it cheaper from the publisher, we order it 42% * 10
from a distributor. But the books we can get at a better
d di is ac to elu yn ,t wf er o m pu t t h oe n p au b pli us rh ce hr a, s e t h oa rt d ew r.e Wdo hn e’ nt n we ee d r ei am chm e t- he * free shipping on 50+ units
minimum (to get the discount we want), we send itin. Ingram discounts are same as B&T
“The disadvantages are that you don’t get the but free shipping is on 100+ units
books as fast when you order from the publisher as
when you order from a distributor. Pubnet is slower Freight equals 2%?
because you don’t get the confirmations right away. For decision-making purposes, Amazon
And, of course, it’s more work. Ordering takes longer estimates that freight charges (where free freight
and is more complicated, and then there are more is not available) are equal to a 2% difference
b oo rx de es r s t o t o u dn ep aa lc k w, i tm h.ore invoices and more purchase in discount.
39 March/April 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
“Some publishers are faster than others, but in gen- away. It kind of gives those books a rest and helps you
eral, you have to weigh what you need immediately to rotate your stock a bit. It also spreads our accounts
versus what can wait. You also have to keep an eye on payable among more vendors so that we don't owe
your distributor orders. Most have a minimum for free such huge amounts of money to each distributor.
freight and we're careful to be sure that we don’t cut “There's another advantage, too: If you have to
below that number and lose our distributor free freight. do returns, you get better discounts if you don’t have
“It’s tempting but you really have to resist doing to return to one of the distributors that does a 50%
a backlist printout and then try to meet the minimums penalty on returns (B&T, Ingram, Bookman, Bookpeo-
for each publisher. Our experience is that if we slip Ple, etc.). Penguin was charging a penalty on returns,
into that mode, we order too many books and the but now they've gone back to a more standard dis-
inventory gets too big — and then there are more bills count for returns.” [Note: Consortium and Publishers’
than income to pay them with. Group West don’t do penalties on returns.]
“Actually, we're finding that limiting distributor Will it work? Can Amazon cut its cost of goods
orders to the books we really need in the store the next by 2%? Or more? If you've tried this or found other
week helps with the chronic overstocking problem that ways to cut your cost of goods, give me a call. We’ll
seems to come with computerized inventory pro- do an update in the fall.
grams. With ‘just-in-time’ ordering it’s so easy to have
all the books all the time that you can overstock your End Plug
store almost before you notice. Before we had comput- If you took the math on faith, you might want to
ers, our buying patterns were much more similar to skip back and wade through the math paragraphs. If
t adh vis a n ‘ tn ae gw es : w Ia ty ’ h ( eo l`f p s o r bd ee cyr auin seg ) yan o ud y dit o n h ’ta d i m so mm Pede i ad teis lt y i nc 8t 8 y y iso nQu 'tr ! ) s tt hor ise ii ss af a c ti on og l yf oin ua n wci aa nl t c h toa ll e bn eg e as b l e(a n td o w ush eo with
reordSer t Ah (e bo oks W )you don ’ t Ereally Tn eed to r vep ,lace : rig ht r ace xand skill! O
S LERS raa Š
t 2 1 EP ntaÈr ctic © P uA stratia rn O utback ` EPT A alaga,Y R ES pain -A Thar DeseV rt, India K
| | MORL) OMEN TRAVEL |
š% DIFFERENTLY THAN MEN DO |`
N: v
N We look `for differen t things, our goals and sytyles are different, and what we take Ñ
` from our travels is different. And while more and more women of all ages and t
N means are taking to the road, the lion's share of travel books are by men and are :
S `
; geNared to men and : the ir v iew Aof our s mall blued univer se. A W:oma n's W orldN is a slice t
v from the female side of the travel story. In it, we've brought together more than (i
è fifty contemporary voices in which women tell their tales, offer pearls of advice and warning, and y
N` sshtaroer itehse i rc odmreaem s f ranodm a m tbhiteio n sy owuitnhg f eallnowd toralvde,l e rts.h eSo m neo variec e v e tterraanv e wlerrit e rasn, dm a ntyh e a r ev entoetr. aTnh,e ifrom women s
Z traveling alone, as part of a couple, or part of a group. All have unforgettable experiences to share. `
s `TR AV ELEVRS’ T AL ES:C A OWOMDAN'S E WO RL D ITSBN T 1-88F5211B-06-6 $ 17.9È5 N l
N EBeijing, China * Grand Ganyo, SA rizona E/V idu, Ier PAM ongolia G hartres, HSFrance
March/April 1996 40 Volume 18 Number 6
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
By Barbe Szlavko and Monica McQueen All of these cuts are supposedly considered nec-
Womansline Books, London ON essary so that the government can implement its key
election promises: a “balanced” budget and a 25% cut
Once again this year, the American Booksellers in taxes. Of course, neither of these promises have as
Association Convention and Trade Fair will be held in yet materialized because the government is cutting off
Chicago IL. In conjunction with this event, there will its own source of revenue as quickly as it’s cutting
once again be a two-day program of professional spending. Most of its revenue comes from sales tax
development, conferencing and networking between and income tax from individuals.
feminist booksellers from all across the U.S. Having And just to show us that they are not entirely
attended three of these in my ten years as a feminist economically motivated, this government has elimi-
bookseller I can attest to their immense value to our nated several key pieces of legislation that do not
work. The question I repeatedly ask myself is: “Where directly affect government spending. We no longer
are the rest of the Canadian feminist booksellers?” have an employment equity law here, that had required
As Canadian feminist booksellers, we are about corporations to come up with a plan within two years
to face two of the harshest challenges of our careers. for achieving equity in their workforces. Also elimi-
One is illustrated by recent events in Ontario, but is nated was the labour legislation that protected unions
typical of events in many of the other provinces. The from unfair actions on the part of management.
other is a Canada-wide threat to us all.
Last summer’s Ontario provincial election
resulted in the victory, by a landslide, of the harshest As Canadian feminist
Conservative government we've ever seen. Conser-
vative governments have often appealed to “small booksellers, we are about to
business people,” with whom we are often lumped,
because they claim they will reduce taxes and allevi- face two of the harshest
ate the burden of regulation that has such a
dampening effect on our “entrepreneurial spirit.” But challenges of our careers.
I can't imagine any retailers being happy with the
actions this government has taken so far. Their very
first move was to cut welfare assistance by 20%. This As a feminist bookstore Womansline Books is par-
was quickly followed by drastic cuts to almost every ticularly concerned about the cuts to the non-profit
ministry and the elimination of much of the funding sector. Our store has seen, in the last five years, an
to the non-profit sector such as Second Stage Housing increasing amount of our business coming from catalog
for battered women and much of the arts sector. This, sales to feminist and social service agencies, from
of course, means that many thousands of people will displays at conferences organized by these same agen-
be losing their jobs. Hence, people have less money to cies, and by sales related to the education sector either
spend in stores of any kind, let alone their local femi- directly to teachers and schools or through course
nist bookstore. adoptions from the Women’s Studies department here.
41 March/April 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
All of these sales will be drastically affected by the Canadian cities (Toronto, Vancouver) in the first two
government budget cuts. The flat Christmas season has years and to move into midsize city markets (Victoria,
shown that walk-in traffic is not unaffected either. Calgary, Edmonton, Winnipeg, London, Kitchener,
Halifax, etc.) soon after.
In terms of store design, Chapters decided it
There is so much to be could not stray even one iota from the proven Ameri-
can formula. A Seattle (U.S.) based firm, The Retail
gained by attending the Group (which has worked for Disney, AT&T and
Blockbuster Video), was chosen to consult on the
Feminist Booksellers design, over four Canadian companies. Even an
American chain (Starbucks) was chosen to run the
Conference at ABA in in-store coffee shops.
In late November of last year, Borders announced
Chicago and I want to that it was expanding into Canada, having found a
Canadian partner to put in 51% of the capital, as
encourage all of the required by Canada’s laws regarding “cultural”
investment. It already has a lease on a downtown
Canadian feminist Toronto location (within a mile of the gay bookstore
and two miles of the feminist bookstore), although no
bookstores to attend and exact date for a store opening has yet been announced.
Another U.S. chain, Barnes & Noble, is also reported
participate. to be working on entering the Canadian market.
The Canadian Booksellers Association (CBA) has
not been silent through this process. It opposed the
Another major threat is the arrival of the merger between Coles and Smithbooks to the federal
American-style, and American-owned, book super- government agency that regulates these matters, on
store. Is it only a coincidence that the chains have the grounds that it would create an unhealthy monop-
chosen to make their entrance now? For many oly in the bookselling market, and also that its size is
decades Canada has had two chains dominate the a threat to the publishing industry in Canada. The
book market, Coles and Smithbooks. Neither of them CBA was rewarded for its trouble by the withdrawal
had anything that could be considered a “superstore,” of Chapters’ membership just days before the annual
— most of their stores were located in suburban malls convention. Then the Federal government allowed
and the inexperience of their staff and “formula” buy- the merger to go ahead anyway.
ing patterns meant that they were no real threat to The CBA is also actively fighting the Borders entry
specialized independents. with the Federal agency that regulates foreign invest-
Early last year, these two chains merged into one ment. Because bookselling is considered a cultural
giant chain, called Chapters Inc., that is estimated to industry, like theater or film-making, any company
control 30% of the Canadian market. Curiously, this engaging in this sector must be at least 51% Canadian
new company is headed by a former Liberal Ontario owned and controlled. The CBA is arguing that the
Premiere with absolutely no experience in the book Canadian partners are only figureheads and will not be
business. actively involved in the chain’s operations because
The strategy that Chapters is employing to estab- neither of them have any bookselling experience.
lish itself is both different from and similar to that Meanwhile, sneaking up the side while nobody
used by the American chains. It seems so far to have was paying attention was Tower Record Stores. They
decided to locate its superstores in suburban malls, have just opened their first Canadian store in down-
rather than in downtown urban shopping areas, town Toronto, just blocks from the flagship stores of
where most independents and specialized stores are the two main Canadian chains, HMV and Sams.
located. Plans are underway to locate in the largest Probably the reason nobody knew about it until it
March/April 1996 42
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
opened was because the music retail industry doesn’t I believe that the Feminist Booksellers Network
have a strong association equivalent to the CBA to as formed at ABA in Miami in 1993 has great relevance
watch out for its members’ interests. Music is, of to us as Canadian feminist booksellers and that we
course, also a cultural industry required to comply have more in common than not. It has been my privi-
with the regulations of Investment Canada. When lege to serve on the steering committee as a Canadian
contacted by Quill & Quire (“Canada’s Magazine of member for the past three years because I believe that
Book News”), the firm's management claimed “not to this body has and will continue to develop important
know about the regulations.” initiatives to further feminist bookselling on both
sides of the border (the FBN Catalogue and last year’s
International Feminist Bookstore Week just to name a
few) and that where our differences exist, they must
be clarified. I feel it’s important for us as Canadian
Canadian booksellers should take heed because feminist booksellers to participate and I am continu-
Tower also sells books. The chain's Toronto book ally disappointed that there are not more of us there
buyer claims a 6,000-title line which certainly rivals to voice our concerns and share the work.
what we would have in stock at any one time. The I believe that there is so much to be gained by
photograph which Q & Q used to illustrate their story attending the Feminist Booksellers Conference at
showed a shelf in which the new Jodie Foster biogra- ABA in Chicago and I want to encourage all of the
phy was front and centre! Tower, it also turns out, is Canadian feminist bookstores to attend and partici-
doing exactly what Canadian booksellers and pub- pate. Nothing can replace the encouragement we gain
lishers are worried that Borders and B & N will do from the face to face gathering and round the table
once they open their Canadian stores: buy their books sharing with our sisters who have a couple hundred
(even Canadian books) from U.S. sources instead of years experience in feminist bookselling among them.
Canadian ones. In many cases this is in direct contra-
vention of copyright laws and clearly defies exclusive
distribution agreements. Nothing can replace the
But what does all this mean to us as Canadian
feminist booksellers? It means that valuable sources encouragement we gain from
of sales are drying or will dry up because of funding
slashes to the very constituents that we serve and rely the face to face gathering
on for our livelihood. It means that a Canadian or
American book superstore can and will move in and 'round the table sharing
directly across the street from our stores. With their
sections on feminist theory, lesbian and gay issues and with our sisters who have a
others (that are larger than our entire inventories) and
with tactics such as deep discounting they will try to couple hundred years
wipe us out.
Having gone to three ABA Conventions in my experience in feminist
ten years of feminist bookselling, the things
described above are not new to me. I have heard bookselling among them.
descriptions of similar experiences from our Ameri-
can counterparts for several years and have a clear
foreshadowing of what is to come. But along with After ten years, Womansline Books is for sale and
that, I have listened to many ways of meeting these we will not be attending this year. We hope that many
challenges and have contributed to creating strate- of you will be able to meet the new owners in Chicago
gies. We have much to learn from each other and in June.
much to contribute as individuals with a vast body Editor's Note: See “News” for Industry Canada’s
of experience between us. late-breaking Borders decision. O
43 March/April 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsISBN 0-8 1$6169-.9257 9 1p-a6per Too Much of R GTha ep nee o cH iW did ea dr ef nare $I 2S1 0B9 8N. 9 p5 a0 g-c e8l so1t6h6-/2ja8c1k8e-t1
ISBN 0- 8$ 14 69 6.9 -25 7x 9 0c -l 8oth a a sG o Co ud l t uMT rh a aei ln g IW coe nst i H an n e B dro z s en Ci ga- ro ov ai tn ia a February
288 pMagaresch RAMONA CURRY BEVERLY ALLEN
HEE RIY ALLEN h
ISBN 0-8 $12646.-9255 4 7p-a6per Mapping HT o Éfh L Ie S EL NoT Nvo Eerments $I $S1 4B8 7N. .9 9 5 5 x0 -p 8 ca1p l6 oe6 tr h-2789-4
ISBN 0 3- 8 1$ 1 6 62 i6 l. l9 - u25 5s5x 0t4 4r 6 ac - tl p8 io aot gnh ess A A NV DE R CY H R F IS. T G O NPO EHR W EED F DRO I IEN TL OD R, S TD E b anrd yE dai t n eC L sd Si lR s ta E a t ew e vN d eNiN t n ehE ba l y R i en nLt dr is ao a ld l u Nct ei ao ln 2MIS 4B a0rN c ph a0 g- e8 s166-2788-6
April
Word's Out $17.95 paper
ISBN 0-8166-2253-1
I IS SB BN N 0 0 - -$ 8 8$11 1496 69.96 6.95- -52 2x x4 4 9 8 p 0 9ca- -lp9 5oe tr h SG IDEe Ovt N t e A IEi r n u y Stg Md o Ia Tb y HA i o Ag U NL r Dsi af e pse h yof WG ILa Ly IA M M Le . n L’ Es A P English I 2$ S 14 B 64 N .9 p5 ax 0 g - e8c s1l 6o 6t -h 2252-3
424 pa g Ape rs il JULIA WA ET DS IO TN O, RS February
Postcolonial I$S1B9N.9 5 x0 - 8p1a6p6e-r2629-4
ISBN 0 -$ 81 $17 46. 49 6 .5 9-2x 56 x 0 p 7a c-p l3 oe tr h FS Wru a ob n mje cc eot nps h o Wn re iters $ IS4 B9 N.9 5 x 0 - 8c 1l 6o 6th -2628-6
ISBN 0-8166-2606-5 MARY JEAN GREEN, 336 pages
232 pag Me as y Autobiograp hU ia Daa v K M MA I ACR XHE IE MN L II NNG ,EO U KRL EID IC T, E H- L. May
YEAGER, EDITORS
March/April 1996 Volume 18 Number 6
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
N
&
N ~
— Jw > |> < IA O
N N
K
By Mary Ellen Kavanaugh year updates are sufficient.
My Sisters’ Words/Syracuse NY Once our computer guru set up the program
(she claims it was a snap), the technical help folks at
Luddite that I am, I have resisted all forms of Booklog talked her through some steps which allow
modern technology — I have no answering machine, us to move from B&T Link to Booklog and back by
no remote controls for anything and certainly no fax hitting just two keys! (perhaps the modern equiva-
machine! lent of a miracle).
Given my stubborn resistance to the playtoys of No more strained eyes! No more, “Let's see how
this decade, I found myself in a quandry when a else we could spell that.” No more, “Well, I guess it’s
customer very generously offered to give me a Gate- too new to be in B.I.P.” No more, “Darn, I thought I
way 2000 computer, complete with printer and grabbed the author volume.” No more bill for $500!
CD-ROM. Hmm... I had them send a trial demo (free 30 day trial,
Those closest to me offered to pay for therapy but we probably used it a bit longer) which we all
should I resist this offer. So I graciously accepted our, took to immediately. It is very easy to use and we
as of yet unnamed, computer and began to input my have no complaints.
inventory on Booklog. Baker & Taylor also has an ordering program
That was in July. which works in tandem with the CD-ROM, but that
By November, when I was literally getting head- requires a modem in order to do electronic ordering,
aches trying to read Books-in-Print, I decided to call and heh, I think I've stretched plenty for this cen-
around for information on what was available on tury.... But if you'd like to know about this program
CD-ROM. (or more about B&T Link), call Sharon Blann at 800-
Bowker’s Books-in-Print was something like 775-2300 ext. 457. She’s great to work with.
$1,200. P.S. You need an account with Baker & Taylor to
A call to Baker & Taylor issued the following purchase this. Order number is 800-233-3657.
information:
B&T Link, which is Baker & Taylor’s version of Last Minute Flash! Mary Ellen called as we were
B.I.P is available on CD-ROM and works in DOS. (A going to press: She’s inputting her Spring frontlist
Windows edition is in the works.) The CD is updated and finds that B&T Link is of little use as the new
monthly, and you can choose to receive it twelve Spring titles aren't on the January update. “Although
times a year ($995); nine times ($795); four times I was singing the praises of this program before, I'm
($395); two times ($199); or once a year ($125). curnrentley qxuite t dis app oiniteds,” ssheu tolde FB.N.. .Mo re O
My guess would be that for most of us, twice a
45 March/April 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsTUN
Feminist Bookstore News
A Different Angle Fly Fishing Stories by Women Edited by Holly Morris
“Charming, funny, provocative...a delightful anthology.” — Nelson Bryant, columnist for the New York Times
“Each story sparkles with eloquence, wit, and insight.” —Gone Fishin’
“Sometimes poignant, more often humorous tales.” —Zibrary Journal
“Entertaining.” —Kirkus Reviews “Fascinating.” —New York Daily News
An outstanding collection of fly fishing stories by Pulitzer Prize-winning author E. Annie Proulx,
fly casting champion Joan Salvato Wulff, Pam Houston, Lorian Hemingway, Le Anne Schreiber,
and many others.
8-copy counter with special riser 0-425-15270-7 @ $96.00 / $136.00 Can. 6⁄2”w x 9”h x 8”d
0-425-15134-4 $12.00/$17.00 Can./288 pp./6” x 8”/Berkley Trade /April
She Came by the Book Mmary Wings
“Irreverent, fast-paced and fun, this is a mystery you'll puzzle over, stay up with, and
really Njoy.” — Rita Mae Brown and Sneaky Pie Brown
“Mary Wings’s new adventure is wickedly funny in its send-up of the lesbian and gay
glitterati of San Francisco...turns dish into a fine art.” —Jewelle Gomez, author of 7he Gilda Stories
“One of the most exciting authors to find her niche in lesbian mystery writing.” —oulines
“A thoroughly likable protagonist.” —Publishers Weekly
“Hip, witty, and fast-paced.” —Boston Phoenix
From the Lambda Award-winning author of Divine Victim and She Came in a Flash,
a brand-new mystery featuring San Francisco P.I. Emma Victor.
0-425-15144-1 $10.00/$14.00 Can./ 272 pp./5⁄,” x 8⁄4”
SPirmimulet a nCeroimuse HTarraddceo/vMera:r c 0h-425-15147-6 $21.95/$30.95 Can./272 pp./51⁄” x 84”
Timelines of American Women’s History sue Heinemann
0-399-51986-6 $15.00/$21.00 Can./400 pp./ 7” x 94” /Perigee/March
You can win a free reader’s galley of Winging It: A Tale of Turning Thirty, the acclaimed
coming-of-age novel by Elizabeth Tippens, if you are among the first 50 people who respond to
The Berkley Publishing Group 200 Madison Ave. 14th floor Dept. JJ New York, NY 10016
March/April 1996 46 Volume 18 Number 6
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
By Jenn Tust distributor of titles from Broken Moon Press. Broken
Moon Titles are now available from Small Press
New Stores Distribution. Consortium will accept returns for
Jayne Sweeney is planning on opening a feminist Broken Moon Press books for credit through June 30.
bookstore, Herstories, in Guelph ON, a medium-sized The Women’s Studies Quarterly (The Feminist
city, about half-way between Toronto (or Buffalo) and Press) is now being distributed by Consortium.
the tip of the thumb in Michigan. Jayne is planning on Bridges: A Journal for Jewish Feminists and Our
looking for space in August. You can reach her at Friends is now available from BP, Don Olson, Fine
home until then: 28 North Umberland Street, Guelph Print, Koen, Small Changes and Ubiquity.
ON N1H 3A5, Canada; 519-823-8123.
Pandora is the new name of the old Printer’s
Mark that Peggy Douglas and Susan Godseaux took
over in December. A feminist bookstore with empha-
sis in lesbian, nonviolent, children’s, class, labor, and Moved
peace studies titles. They were the only new store in Anne-Marie Pollowy is discontinuing the
downtown Knoxville during the holidays and did Women’s Voices Bookclub as a catalogue sales / fund-
very well, with a lot of walk-in traffic. They describe raising instrument and is now exploring setting up a
themselves as sort of like Malaprops (same size). You new women’s Internet address for women’s writing
can reach them at 30 Market Square, Knoxville TN to be called Women’s Bookshelf. For more informa-
37914; 423-524-1259. tion contact Anne-Marie at PO Box 338, Plymouth,
Alexandria Ravenel-Gainor is planning on open- Montserrat West Indies; 809-491-5881; fax 809-491-
ing Healing Rays, on March 1. A feminist bookstore 7881, e-mail <toliver@server2.candw.ag>.
and gift store, specializing in self-help, metaphysical,
women’s health, spirituality, political, and other Periodicals
areas, with themes that will change month-to-month. If you can’t find Deneuve, look for Curve —
The store will be at 57 Broad Street, Charleston SC Deneuve got too much pressure from Catherine
29401; 803-853-4499. Deneuve (as we hear it) and picked Curve (as in “not
Distributor News straight, elegant, exciting, feminine, full...”). No less
obscure, but still the hottest dyke magazine around.
Madwoman, Paradigm and Wildfire were inad-
vertently left off the list of publishers expected to Internet News
move to Login/ WomenSource in the last issue. Please Visit gynergy books at “Small Media and
update your files and accept our apologies for any Large” on WWW to view their catalog <http://
confusion this has caused! Additional publishers that smallmedia.com>.
will be at Lọgin/InBook include Breese Books, Gates Orlando Books now has a Web site: <http://
of Heck and Real Comet Press. www.compusmart.ab.ca>.
As of January 1, Consortium will no longer be the See That-A-Way, page 60.
Volume 18 Number 5 January/February 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Congratulations,
9 How will you
Ou re use the next
e 30 or 40 years?
From Colette Dowling, the million-copy
nationally bestselling author of
The Cinderella Complex, comes a joyously
on-target book that speaks to the millions
of women entering their fifties, and
reinventing themselves in ways that break
stereotypes and shatter the age barrier.
“There are a surprising number of us edging
up to, or at, or just beyond the age of fifty
women for whom this number means some-
thing entirely different than it did before.
These women I know dont relate to being L s
“middle aged,” although they're quite proud
of having arrived at fifty. .….… They are bursting
forth in their lives; they are engaged..……. O TL HEE T CIT NDE E R AEUD TLHORL O OAF W COL MI PN LEG X |
We are the first who came of age with the
women’s movement to enter this stage of
life, and we are doing it—as we've done
everything—differently.”
—from RED HOT MAMAS
“Vivid, lively, and informative, with a secure X| A Bantam Elardcover.
grip on reality.” — Kirkus Reviews Bantam Available wherever books are sold.
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
By Jenn Tust Sheldon Huffaker to Rowohlt, one of Germany’s
largest publishers.
The introduction to Seal Press’ 20th Anniversary Rights to Martha Moody by Susan Stinson (Spin-
catalog makes a special point of thanking the book- sters Ink) were sold to The Women’s Press, Ltd. (U.K.).
sellers who make their books available, and celebrates It is tentatively scheduled for August publication.
over 100 titles published and a million books sold.
Awards
Patient No More: The Politics of Breast Cancer by
vOs Sharon Batt (Gynergy Books) won the 1995 Laura
Jamieson Award for best feminist non-fiction book.
Back to Press The award is sponsored by Canadian Research Insti- .
Sarah Aldridge’s eighth novel, Magdalena, (A&M tute for the Advancement of Women.
Books) which has been out of print, has been reprinted Aunt Lute Books, the Women’s Review of Books and
with a new cover. Cytherea’s Breath, Aldridge’s third six other publishers were awarded $3,500 grants by
novel which is now nearly 20 years old, and for a The Lila Wallace-Reader’s Digest Fund. These grants
while the most popular in the series, is being used as are earmarked for developing marketing plans which
a text for a university course, Introduction to Leader- the foundation will consider funding at a future date.
ship and Lifestyles. Amantha and A&M Books are The Feminist Press, Arte Público, Copper Canyon,
doing remarkably well and A&M continues to offer a Coffee House Press and 17 other publishers were
50% discount on bookstore orders. All twelve of Sarah awarded a second round of grants from the Lila
Aldridge’s novels are now available only from their Wallace—-Reader’s Digest Literary Publishers Market-
new publisher, A&M Books, PO Box 283, Rehoboth ing Development Program.
Beach DE 19971; 800-489-7662.
I Know My Own Heart: The Diaries of Anne Lister,
edited by Helena Whitbread, and H.D.’s Paint It Today
were both reprinted by New York University Press at
the end of 1995. Women of Color and the Multicultural Curriculum
received the Gustavus Myers Award for being an out-
standing title on human rights in North America. The
Spring/Summer 1995 issue of Women’s Studies Quar-
terly: Working Class Studies received second place in the
Council of Editors of Learned Journals annual compe-
tition. Both titles are published by The Feminist Press.
Behind the Scenes at the Museum, the first novel by
Scotland’s Kate Atkinson, won the Whitbread Book of
Rights Sold the Year Award, one of Britain's most prestigous liter-
Eighth Mountain Press sold German language ary prizes “after passionate debate by the final
rights to The Fearless Flyer: How to Fly in Comfort and juwdgainsg paalnseol.” Sualnmdane rRu s hcdoien’s s Tihde e Mroaotr’iso Lnas.t SOigh
Without Trepidation by Cherry Hartman and Julie
49 March/April 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsMIRAGE
i ANOV =
Soheir Khashoggi
A powerful story of desperation
and determination, revealing the
inner lives and emotional struggles
of modern harem women.
“A truly compelling novel...[Kashoggi’s]
characters act as a window to two
sharply contrasted cultures, bringing
them to life as only someone who has
lived and felt them deeply could.”
—John Gray, author of Men Are From
Mars, Women Are From Venus
“A spellbinding story of one woman’s
struggle to escape the gilded cage of the
Middle Eastern aristocracy...I inhaled it!”
—Cindy Adams, syndicated columnist
FORGE
s A FO R0-G31E2 - H85A83R5D-3C O• V$2E3R.95/$29.95 Can.
P é Wherever books are sold
50 Volume 18 Number 6
March/April 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Compiled by Jenn Tust provide an intriguing look at the myriad ways that
lesbians begin the process of exploring their sexuality,
Third Side Press, publisher of Cancer as a Women’s whether at age 13 or 30. First-time experiences run the
Issue and Alternatives for Women with Endometriosis, is gamut from disappointing to thrilling; this range will
looking for additional book manuscripts on women’s be captured in Early Embraces. Deadline: March 30.
health issues from a feminist perspective. Chronic Scheduled for 1996 release. For guidelines: send SASE
fatigue syndrome, lupus, allergies, breast cancer, to Early Embraces Guidelines, Alyson Publications,
ovarian cancer, and uterine cancer are topics of par- PO Box 4371, Los Angeles CA 90078.
ticular interest, but other diseases or approaches to 8/7 TISS
women’s health issues are actively sought. They are
not looking for straightforward journalkeeping by
women with diseases, but for fresh approaches and Sapphic Ink, a new, Web-based literary journal for
activists’ perspectives. For guidelines: Midge Stocker, lesbians, is seeking contributions. They are looking
Third Side Press, 2250 West Farragut, Chicago IL for literary works by lesbian writers, in the form of
60625; 312-271-3029, fax 312-271-0459, e-mail fiction, poetry and book reviews. Not looking for
<102171.771@compuserve.com>. strictly genre fiction. Content need not directly
address lesbian experience. They are particularly in-
Sibyl Publications is requesting nonfiction book- terested in works with an original voice and careful
length manuscipts on topics of interest to women, attention to the art as well as the craft of writing. Book
particularly women in midlife. Send SASE for guide- reviews should focus on book-length works by les-
lines — do not send manuscript before reading bian writers. Send contributions e-mail (preferred) as
guidelines. Sibyl Publications, Inc., 600 SE Powell an attachment with a separate cover sheet message,
Blvd, Portland OR 97202. including short bio, your e-mail address, URL if avail-
able, to: <sapphic-submissions@lesbian.org>, via
Burning Bush Publications is now accepting postal mail: on floppy with the application/platform
essays, fiction, oral history and poetry for an anthol- itis saved in to: Sapphic Ink, 5856 College Avenue #131,
ogy about immigrants and their first-generation Oakland CA 94618. Sapphic Ink is also accepting con-
children. Suggested topics: media, sex, relationships, tributions for “cover art” to be displayed on the
discrimination, language, women’s roles, religion, welcome page to the Sapphic Ink Web site.
differences between life in the U.S. and your parents’
life. Deadline: June 30. Send to Abby Bogomolny- A small group of feminist booklovers has been
Editor, PO Box 7361, Santa Cruz CA 95061. talking about sharing information about books we've
read and are excited about. Sue Bennett/Gifts of
Alyson Publications is seeking contributions for Athena has agreed to be the clearinghouse for reviews.
Early Embraces, an anthology of true, first-person Jot down your thoughts on something you've
stories by women from around the world, describing recently read and want to let other dykes know about
their first consensual same-sex experience. It should See Writing Wanted, page 60.
51 March/April 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
More feminist
energy per paye...
With 100 pages of editorial in every issue—and no advertising—
that’s a lot of energy! Ms. has grown fresher,
feistier, more life-relevant and reader-friendly than ever.
Display it prominently, and watch sales take off!
Sell the
best selling
feminist
magazine
in the world!
lf your distribution
has been interrupted,
call Mary McEvoy
at 212-551-9571.
March/April 1996 52 Volume 18 Number 6
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Compiled by Jenn Tust
Killing Rage: Ending Racism by bell hooks. It
seems that the only time in the U.S. that white men
listen to Black men is on the issue of racism. Both
groups of men are pessimistic at best. The recent OJ
verdict and the Million Man March, with Black
males on talk show after talk show condemning
racism and failing to mention sexism, are two cases
in point. Many Black men uncritically accept and
internalize the dominant society's narrow, patriar-
chal definition of manhood. In her new, excellent
book of essays, bell hooks’ views oppose the main-
stream points of view, both within and without tenacity, she relentlessly shares her wisdom and her
African American communities. hooks insists, once commitment for a better world. $20 cl, Holt.
again, that progressive feminist voices who exam- —Helene Vann
ine racism from a standpoint of the interrelatedness Full Circle Books, Albuquerque NM
of race, class and gender are essential to any dis-
course on race in mainstream media. hooks _ The intersection of culture and personality is
examines race in myriad ways: in terms of white fertile and fascinating territory. This is the field Amy
supremacy, Black and white relations, the interde- Tan has plowed twice with magnificent results, so I
pendency and coalition politics between people of couldn't wait to devour her latest book, The
color, anti-Semitism, and internalized racism. The Hundred Secret Senses. Through the loving, hating
first essay graphically details some of hooks’ per- rivalry “Libby-ah” (Olivia), had for her Chinese
sonal encounters with white supremacist assaults half-sister Kwan, I was fed a banquet of emotions
on her personhood, assaults that cause her to rage and truths that was immensely satisfying even to the
inwardly to the point of wanting to kill. The utter bitter sweet ending. “Believing in ghosts — that’s
amazement of whites at the opposing Black and believing that love never dies.” Share this book with
white responses to the OJ verdict indicates how someone you love. $24.95 cl, Putnam.
little whites really understand the impact of white —Mary Morell
racist domination. Killing Rage is a call for change Full Circle Books, Albuquerque NM
from one who feels locked out of the public dis-
course on race relations. It is also a challenge to Sometimes in the journey of a soul, we reach the
accountability for all who are complicit in keeping future from the present by traveling through the past.
institutional racism in place. Unlike males, hooks is Soitis with Angel, who reunites with her Grandmoth-
optimistic, believing that racial justice can be a ers and the strength of her ancestral customs. To
reality, that this nation can be transformed and complete the journey, she joins the three elder women
renewed, that racism can be ended — when women in a canoe trip through mythology into a hydroelectric
are listened to for a change. With courage and See Raves, page 123
53 March/April 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
By Roz Warren
The bad news is that the Crossing Press recently
remaindered almost every book in the Women’s Glib
Women’s Glib, Women’s Glibber, The Best Contemporary
Women’s Humor, Kitty Libber, Mothers! and What Is This | readers, and cartoons (including one terrific ‘toon by
Thing Called Sex? You can still buy copies of these | Nikki Gosch, whose work was featured in Dyke
outstanding titles directly from the editor (me) atan | Strippers). Sorry no price, 0-9649276-0-8. JNJ Publish-
obscene discount (for information please write me at ing Company, PO Box 40416, Mesa AZ 85275.
PO Box 259, Bala Cynwyd PA 19004; 610-668-4252). Girltalk: Stories by Women Who Love Comics
But...it’s the end of an era. Too Much is a comic book series (two so far and a new
The good news is that at the very instant the Glib issue promised for February 1996) devoted to multi-
series wasin its death throes, Penguin Books was giving page comics by contemporary women cartoonists.
birth to The Penguin Book of Women’s Humor ($14.95 Production values are terrific and both issues have
pb, 0-14-017294-7), a terrific collection that covers gorgeous full-color covers. The material is beautifully
women’s humor from the I8th century to the present. executed but pretty bleak (“Oh Fuck, I'm a Victim” is
It's edited by Regina Barreca, a feminist and a scholar | a representative title). These cartoonists are mostly
(the author of an excellent book about women’s humor | working within what's often called the “dirty laun-
called They Used to Call Me Snow White, But They Drifted). | dry” school of women’s cartooning (“I'm awful! Life
Barreca has been working on this book forever, and the | is awful! Men are really awful!”). While my own tastes
result is well worth all her trouble. She's done an excel- | run more to the “empowered woman /flippant femi-
lent job of gathering material; the book is very | nist” school of women’s cartooning, any comic that
informative and a great deal of fun. (It would have been gives us strong women’s voices and terrific artwork,
even better had it included work by Alison Bechdel.) as Girltalk does, is well worth supporting. This series
You really must stock this one. (Note: Barreca is a gifted | would be much improved by the inclusion of work by
public speaker and will be touring to promote thisbook. | lesbian cartoonists. $3.50, Fantagraphics Books.
Phone her publicity manager, Alison Koop, at 212-366- On the humor horizon: a second collection of
2274 and try to get her into your store!) funny essays by Chicago-based humorist Jorjet Harper,
Whinorrhea and Other Nursing Diagnoses: titled Tales From the Dyke Side (New Victoria
The Blue and White Years of the Journal of Nursing Publishers); a collection of cartoons by Rina Piccolo
Jocularity edited by Fran London is a book that no about the Catholic Church, titled Kicking the Habit
nurse with a sense of humor is going to be able to live | (Laugh Lines Press); a collection of cartoons by
without. A collection of the best of the first two years | Stephanie Piro about America’s addiction to coffee and
of The Journal of Nursing Jocularity, Whinorrhea is a | tea, titled Caffeinated Cartoons (Laugh Lines Press);
masterpiece of workplace humor, including jokes, | and a funny autobiography by television star Brett
funny essays, hilarious-but-true anecdotes sent in by | Butler titled Knee Deep in Paradise. O
March/April 1996 54 Volume 18 Number 6
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
AUDIO e VIDEO e CD-ROM
ELECTRONIC BOOKS
By Dorothy Holland Other titles I've heard good things about are
CD-ROM bC eh o ap b leS u e ty o tan eld l yB oo ud y , a b oM ui tn d n ea xn td i sS so uu el ., which I should
Finally, we have a couple more Multimedia
CD-ROM titles that are aimed at the women’s mar- Video
ket. Here’s a look at the good, the bad, and the not On the video front, I recently received Women
yet reviewed. With Wings featuring three-time U.S. National Aero-
Science Sleuths: Real Life Adventures in a batic Champion Patty Wagstaff, which tells the stories
Virtual Science Lab comes in two separate volumes. of eight women who have made significant contribu-
Volume One contains “Mysteries of the Blog” and tions to the world of aviation. Includes interviews,
“The Exploding Lawnmowers.” Volume Two fea- photographs and film footage. I was amazed how
tures “The Mysteries of the Biogene Picnic” and involved women have been in aviation, and I enjoyed
“The Traffic Accident.” These are great! I spent two
hours having a blast just with Volume One. I suc- Aircraft Associations Paul Harvey Audio/Visual
ceeded in solving the mysteries at the easier levels Center, 800-843-3612, ext. 3099. Ask for Debbie.
— but finally had to quit, it being well past my Wendy Dragonfire, a lesbian martial artist, is part
bedtime. These titles are definitely not sexist, racist of a video series that will be of interest to all feminist
or violent — very unusual in the CD-ROM market. stores. The Best Defense is a video self-defense series
The main characters are women, with depictions of designed exclusively for the lesbian and gay commu-
all kinds of people. The program includes hundreds nity. The first tape, Surviving the Streets, is excellent.
of experiments, video clips, and wild and funny It combines information about violence against the
comments. The age recommendation is twelve and lesbian and gay community, basic defense strategies,
up. Science Sleuths won the Newsweek Editor's encouragement, and other essential information. Very
Choice Award for Children’s Software. I highly rec- well done. $29.95, 1 hour. Available from Wolfe Video.
ommend these two titles. $59.95 each, IBM Vol. 1, Tapes 2 and 3 will be available in June.
1-56307-334-X, Vol. 2, 1-56307- 385-4; MAC Vol. 1,
-402-8, Vol. 2, -402-8, Videodiscovery. Distributed by
Ingram.
On the other hand, there’s McKenzie & Co, five
CD adventures for girls. Order this only if you're up A Girls’ World from Laurie Hepburn Produc-
to a multimedia version of Sweet Valley High. Shop- tions presents women in various professions usually
ping, make-up, dating, proms and boys are the dominated by men. The professionals are interviewed
important things in this version of life. The box says by young women — the central idea being to stretch
that science and math are involved, but the only thing girls’ thoughts about possible careers. I got a kick out
approaching such thought processes were in the of the segment with a veterinarian; the video also
games, which were so trite as to be offensive. $59.95, includes a pilot and a glass blower. Keep watching
IBM, no ISBN. Her Interactive; 800-561-0908. through the credits, the outtakes are wonderful.
55 March/April 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Comfortably includes women of color. A Girls’ World In A Monstrous Regiment of Women by Laurie
won a Parent's Choice Foundation 1995 Gold Award. King, read by Megan Follows, Mary, an Oxford student,
$19.95, 45 minutes, Laurie Hepburn Productions; again teams up with her mentor Sherlock Holmes, to
800-275-9101. discover the motives behind the leader of a powerful
Anaïs Nin Observed: A Portrait of Anaïs Nin by women’s movement in London. I loved it. Well read.
Robert Snyder is an older, award-winning look at
Anaïs Nin’s life and ideas. The film was originally Durkin Hayes. Distributed by Ingram.
produced in 1973, but has just been made available on Range of Motion by Elizabeth Berg, read by
video. $29.95 retail, 1 hour. 40% discount, Mystic Fire Megan Gallagher, is another wonderful title from
Video; 800-999-1319. Also available from BP. the author of Talk Before Sleep. $16.99, 2 cassettes, 3
hours, abridged, 0-553-47666-1, BDD Audio. Distrib-
Audio uted by Ingram.
My favorite listen the past few months was Politi-
cally Correct Holiday Stories by James Finn Garner.
OK, OK, I do know we've passed the holiday season,
but these are wonderful, hilarious stories, whatever
the season. Highly recommended. ($9.95, 1 cassette, The Patricia Cornwell Audio Collection read by
abridged, 0-671-53452-1, Simon & Schuster.) Another Kate Burton and Lindsay Crouse. I haven’t heard this
title that will be a favorite is Windy City Blues: V.I. one yet, but if you have Cornwell fans, this may be a
Warshawski Stories by Sara Paretsky, read by Hensley good bet. Includes Cruel and Unusual, All That Remains,
Vincent, a collection of five short stories written in the and Body of Evidence. $39, 6 cassettes, abridged, 0-694-
last ten years. ($24.95, 4 cassettes, unabridged, 0-7871- 51593-0, Harper Audio. Distributed by Ingram.
0478-7, Dove Audio.) Both distributed by Ingram. All the Weyrs of Pern by Anne McCaffrey read by
Mark Rolston. Can anyone resist McCaffrey’s stories?
Wonderful. $29.95, 6 cassettes, unabridged, 1-879371-
92-8, Publishing Mills. Distibuted by Ingram.
Sleeping at the Starlite Motel, read by the
author Bailey White, provides glimpses into the lives
of White’s eccentric southern relatives and neighbors,
as well as reports from her travels beyond the South.
$20, 2 cassettes, 3 hours, abridged, 0-671-51988-3,
Simon & Schuster. Distributed by Ingram.
A couple classics: Pigs in Heaven by Barbara
Kingsolver continues the tale of Turtle and Taylor. A
must. ($17, 2 cassettes, 3 hours, abridged, 1-559-94722-
5, Harper Audio.) The Robber Bride, Margaret
Atwood. ($19.99, abridged, 0-553-47238-0, Bantam.)
Ladder of Years by Anne Tyler, read by Barbara Barrie.
($17, 2 cassettes, 3 hours, abridged, 0-679-44110-7,
Random House.) All three distributed by Ingram.
Liar's Club: A Memoir, read by the author Mary
STORIES Karr. I enjoyed this, but I'm not sure it'll sell. Might
want to consider how well the book sells for you.
3 IS+ B Nh r s #/2 1 - 8c 8a 3s 3s. 3 2 $ -2 22 2. -9 25 $ P1 e6 n. g9 u5, in 4 A c ua ds is oe Bt ote os k, s . 4 D ih so tu rr ibs u, t ea db r i bd yg e d In, g 0 r- a1 m4 .-086308-7,
Pe A ntv oa nil a b Ol ve e rf sr eo am s, New Passages: Mapping Your Life Across
Ingram, PMSC Time, read by the author Gail Sheehy, is well read
and a pleasure to hear. Sheehy looks at how the old
March/April 1996 56
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
demarcations of adulthood (beginning at 21 and $10.95, 1 cassette, 90 minutes, abridged, 1-56455-354-X.
ending at 65) are hopelessly out of date and provides Accepting Your Gay or Lesbian Child: Parents
new maps of adult life. $22.50, 4 cassettes, 4 hours, Share Their Stories is an excellent audio tape for all
abridged, 0-679-44325-8, Random House. Distrib- families as their children corne out. This recording
uted by Ingram and BP. presents members of PFLAG, offering love, support
Passion: Women on Women, the subtitle is Pro- and information to other parents. $9.95, 1 cassette, 90
vocative Excerpts on the Passions of Women.” With minutes, 1-56455-039-7.
many authors and an assortment of readers, it is a look Giving Birth, Finding Form: Three Writers
at our passions, not just sexual — respect for our own Explore Their Lives, Loves & Art, with Alice Walker,
inner lives and bodies, our appetite for work, our Isabele Allende, and Jean Shinoda Bolen, is a delight-
hunger for love and affection, dynamics between ful unscripted discussion between these three
mothers and daughters, intimate friendships with insightful, creative women. $10.95, 1 cassette, 90 min-
other women, what makes us laugh and more. I really utes, 0-56455-245-4.
enjoyed listening to this one. $17.95, 2 cassettes, 3 Wise-Woman Archetype: Menopause as Initia-
hours, original, 0-7871-0000-5, Dove Audio. Distrib- tion by Jean Shinoda Bolen is an older, but interesting,
uted by Ingram. recording from a conference in California. Bolen
Outrageous Acts & Everyday Rebellions, read explores the wise woman archetype in our lives today.
by the author Gloria Steinem, is from her diverse, $9.95, 1 cassette, 1 hour, 1-56455-005-2.
timeless, collection of essays — from “I Was a Play- Women Who Run With the Wolves: Myths &
boy Bunny” to the moving tribute to her mother Stories About the Wild Woman Archetype, with
“Ruth’s Song,” and essays on female genital mutila- Clarissa Pinkola Estés, is wonderful listening. 1990.
tion. The satirical and hilarious “If Men Could $18.95, 2 cassettes, 3 hours, 1-56455-082-6.
Menstruate” is alone worth the price. $17.95, 2 cas-
settes, abridged, 0-7871-0556-2, Dove Audio.
Distributed by Ingram.
If your store carries audio titles, you need to
know about the Sounds True collection. Most of their The Age of the Great Goddess: Ancient Roots
tapes are original titles, unscripted, live presentations of the Emerging Feminine Consciousness with
and not book abridgments. Marija Gimbutas offers an easy introduction to
My Life as My Self featuring Alice Walker is a goddess culture. 1992. $18.95, 2 cassettes, 2 hours,
delight to hear. Walker provides rare, intimate conver- 1-56455-136-9.
sation as she examines her life, and looks to the All titles available from Sounds True Audio; 800-
greatest struggle we each face — to be who we truly 333-9185, and BP.
are. Includes eight poems. $10.95, 1 cassette, 90 min- Here are a couple more titles from New Dimen-
utes, 1-56455-341-8. sions weekly interview radio program. Women and
Hildegard of Bingen & Her Vision of the Femi- the Sacred: The Feminine and the Infinite with $S.
nine features Nancy Fierro, a Hildegard scholar, who R. Anderson and P. Hopkins (Cassette #2272), fasci-
transports the listener through space and time to nating discussion. Sacred Pilgrimage at Mid-life
medieval cloisters where Hildegard struggled to by Jean Shinoda Bolen (Cassette #2471), more inter-
express her spirituality. How she succeeded in a esting listening from Bolen. These are both
world open only to men is of interest for every hour-long audio cassettes of the weekly interview
woman. Well done. $10.95, 1 cassette, 1-56455-338-8. radio program. $10.95 cassette, New Dimensions,
Faithful Gardener: A Wise Tale About That Box 410510, San Francisco CA 94141; 415-563-8899,
Which Can Never Die, read by the author Clarissa fax 415-563-9009. These tapes do not have ISBNs,
Pinkola Estés, is a compelling tale of a concentration and as far as I can figure, are not available at dis-
camp survivor. It comes from Estés’s own family, using tributors. New Dimensions will wholesale them
t dh eve a st ta al te e d o f f o h re er st U tn oc l te e lZ l o ov far ’s lo ss st , r u sg ug rl ve i v at lo ar ne ds u r rr ee bc it r t ha . w sit ah l 4 e0% , d isc tou hnt e, ymin im u pm a o yrde r o ff r $1 e00 i gwh hole t- . O
57 March/April 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Books in Canada:
By Alexandra Wilson Governor General's Award for Poetry. A collaboration
Women in Print/Vancouver between the prose and poetry of Szumigalski and the
images of Mary Elyse St. George, Voice is fantastic
The last column before the spring catalogues and fabulous, in the sense of the other-worldly. And
at C$9.95, a very good deal. 1-55050-089-9. Available
do have a few special titles to call to your attention. through General Distribution Services.
First off is Saltwater Women at Work: In Their From Brick Books come three books of poetry.
Own Words. Vickie Jensen has really given us a gem Grief Notes and Animal Dreams is Jane Munro’s
of a book: 110 women tell their own stories of life exploration of inner experiences, a search for the
working on the water. We hear from skippers, cooks, truths of emotion. Roo Borson calls it a book for those
oilers, engineers, deckhands and barge operators. “in mid-life who look both ways” to the past and the
And more — these women have done everything, future. (C$11.95 pb, 0-919626-82-3.) Helen Hum-
including dealing with harassment, the difficulties of phries’s third collection, The Perils of Geography,
getting financing, and of getting that job in the first explores the present, “the now,” with humour and
place. The focus is on mariners on the Canadian West beautifully evocative detail. (C$11.95 pb, -83-1.) In
Coast with overlap into the American Pacific North- Marrying the Animals, Cornelia Hoogland shows us
west. A beautiful gift book. C$22.95 pb, the intensity and beauty of the everyday. (C$11.95 pb,
1-55054-436-5. Douglas and McIntrye, 1615 Venables 1-919626-84-X.) Available through Login/InBook or
Street, Vancouver BC V5L 2H1, Canada; 604-254- General Distribution Services.
7191, fax 604-254-9099.
A second non-fiction title is Breaking Ano-
nymity: The Chilly Climate for Women Faculty.
Edited by the two dozen women who form The Chilly
Collective, the book examines the university climate Back to Coteau for fiction. Byma Barclay's new
as experienced by women and visible minority fac- collection of short stories — Crosswinds — explores
ulty. Through specific experiences, it describes what women’s relationships with the other women in their
happens when women try to document the climate lives, especially the relationships between mothers
and try to warm it up, and reframes the discussion of and daughters. (C$14.95 pb, 1-55050-087-2.) The
“chilly climate issues” around questions of race and “cracks” in human behavior, and in the soul, are
sexual identity. An American reviewer has high- explored in Fracture Patterns, a first collection of
lighted the book as instructive regardless of whether short stories by Gail Helgason. Tension and action
the institutions are Canadian or American. C$24.95 characterize these stories set in the mountain passes
pb, 0-88920-245-1. Wilfrid Laurier University Press, of Western Canada. (C$14.95 pb, -086-4.) Available
Wilfrid Laurier University, Waterloo ON N2L 3C5, through General Distribution Services.
Canada; 519-884-0710, fax 519-725-1399. Cormorant brings us the first collection of linked
Moving to poetry, the big title is from Coteau stories by maritime writer Carole Bruneau. After the
books. Voice by Anne Szumigalski won the 1995 See Canada, page 72.
58
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms- Feminist Bookstore News
By Tee A. Corinne addition to our skinny shelf of feminist art theory.
$19.95 pb, 0-7190-4258-5; $69.95 cl, -4257-7, Manchester
Beth Van Hoesen: Works On Paper, with an University Press. Distributed by St. Martin’s.
essay by Richard Lorenz, is one of the most visually Other Visions, Other Voices: Women Political
exciting books I've seen in a long time. A radical book Artists in Greater Los Angeles by Paul Von Blum,
in a benign cover, Van Hoesen mixes images of friends
and family, street people, food and flowers, in a book
where people of color are integral and color itself is
luscious. $18.95 pb, 0-8118-1005-4, Chronicle Books.
Paris Was a Woman: Portraits From the Left
Bank by Andrea Weiss is a magical book, rather like
a lesbian literary and art family scrapbook with a
text that tells a great deal about who was doing what
with whom. Of special interest are photographs of
and information about sculptor and silverpoint art-
ist Thelma Wood, who was Djuna Barnes’ lover
throughout the 1920s and lovers with photographer
Berenice Abbott as well. Also new is information
about photographer Gisele Freund. There are
charming watercolors by writer Janet Flanner, draw-
ings by Djuna Barnes (including a self-portrait) and
an exceptional collection of photographs. $20 pb,
0-06-251313-3, HarperSanFrancisco.
Djuna: The Life and Work of Djuna Barnes by
Phillip Herring is thorough and detailed with much
new information about Djuna’s relationships with
artist Thelma Wood and photographer Berenice
Abbott. Only one of Djuna’s paintings is reproduced.
$29.95 cl, 0-670-84969-3, Viking Penguin.
New Feminist Art Criticism by Katy Deepwell is
subtitled (on the title page only) “Critical Strategies,”
yet the subtitle effectively establishes the intellectual
tone and breadth of this book, which is divided into
five sections: Between Theory and Practice, Curator-
ship and the Art World, On the Question of
Censorship, The Engagement With Psychoanalysis,
and Textiles. Intellectually engaging, it is an important
59 March/April 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
foreword by Lucy R. Lippard, is an important first That-A-Way, continued from page 47.
step in making the worK of a number of women artists Lee Anne Phillips has been keeping an excellent
known to a larger public. Although the photographs list of feminist bookstores on the Web. It’s at <http://
are all black-and-white, there is a good selection. I www.igc.apc.org/women/bookstores/>. She also
hope that in volume two the racial and out lesbian keeps a parallel list of lesbian and gay [male] book-
inclusiveness will be wider. $34.50 pb, 0-8191-9475-1; stores: <http://www.qrd.org/QRD/www/media/
$66 cl, -9492-1, University Press of America. print/bookstores>. E-mail users can reach Lee Anne at
<leeph@netcom.com>. She also recommends
Women’s Book Reviews: <http://www.cyber
grrl.com/review/>. You can also get to all the above
Web listings via her homepage at <http://
www.geopages.com/ WestHollywo0od/1027/>.
Frida Kahlo by Malka Drucker is a highly read- Volcano Press now has a Web page — their address
able biography which advertises itself as “not is <http:/ /Volcanopress.com>.
watered down or censored in any way.” This is a Thunder Road Book Club’s new Web page is at
terrific introduction to Kahlo’s life. $12.95 pb, 0-8263- <http://ourworld.compuserve.com/homepages
1642-5, University of New Mexico Press. Thunder_Road_Book_Club/>.
Family: A Celebration, edited by Margaret Visit Spinsters Ink at <http://www.lesbian.
Campbell, with photographs by Joan Beard, is a org /spinsters-ink/> to view an electronic version of
collection of images, poems and personal essays their catalog.
which have great charm and warmth. A broad defi- IE
nition of “family” is enhanced by racial/ethnic N
inclusiveness. $24.95 cl, 1-56079-468-2, Peterson’s;
800-338-3282.
Due out the end of March, Nothing but the Girl, The ABA has formed an Internet mailing list to
The Blatant Image: A Portfolio, An Exploration of discuss issues related to books and bookselling. The
Lesbian Erotic Photography, edited by Susie Bright list is open to everyone involved in the business of
and Jill Posener, is receiving rave reviews from every- bookselling in the real world or online. ABA encour-
one who has seen it. I haven't, but my work is in it, as ages all subscribers “to submit and carrry out
is work by virtually every lesbian photographer who discussions regarding all aspects of bookselling in a
has contributed to the changed visual climate we now free and unbridled fashion.” To subscribe: send an
enjoy. $27.50 cl, 1-86047-001-7, Freedom Editions/ e-mail message to <majordomo@ambook.org>, in the
Cassell. Distributed by InBook/Login. © body of the message write “subscribe booksellers.”O
Writing Wanted, continued from page 51. new, original essay. Contributors will also provide an
and send to Sue. They anticipate most reviews to be a electronic manuscript on disk and short writing sam-
paragraph or two, but length isn’t an issue. There will ple prior to being assigned entries. Contact Michael J.
also be room for other dykes to respond. Send to: Tyrkus, St. James Press, 835 Penobscot Bldg, Detroit
<Clevedyke@aol.com>. MI 48226; 800-347-4253 ext 1452, or 313-961-2242 ext
1452, fax 313-961-6950.
Experienced writers are invited to contribute to Writers are invited to present a workshop at the
St. James Press Gay and Lesbian Biography, a reference National Women’s Music Festival Writers Conference,
work featuring biographies of 275 notable lesbians June 6-9 at Indiana University in Bloomington. Can be
and gay men throughout the world, from all periods, on any topic that is of interest to writers. Featured
occupational fields, and ethnic backgrounds. Each writers and speakers include Jewelle Gomez, Karla Jay,
entry should include a signed bio essay of 800, 1200, Lea Delaria, Pat Califia and Margarethe Cammer-
or 2400 words. Contributors will be paid an honorar- meyer. Contact Loraine Edwalds at 312-583-5042,
ium of $50, $75, or $100 (depending on length) for each e-mail <edwalds@aaos.mhs.compuserve.com>. O
March/April 1996 60
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
By Jennifer Einhorn has taken the retail market by storm, becoming one of
the fastest selling records of the year and in some parts
Lee Lessack. My fave of this batch and perfect of the country, outselling the unbeatable The Three
for Valentine's Day. Move this guy out of any “Gay Tenors. Surely the “Adults Only” sticker plastered
Male” section he might be hidden in and face him on the cover with nude photos of lesbian lovers has
out — for everyone. The most talented male ballad- nothing to do with its success. Right. Featuring
eer around, Lessack’s flair goes beyond his stellar Debussy, Rachmaninoff, Tchaikovsky, Barber and
voice. The man has an uncanny knack for choosing some pieces lifted from the Claire of the Moon
tunes that are smart, moving and simply beautiful. soundtrack, label Rising Star has issued counter
With a delivery that is clear, commanding and acces- displays and posters. No lesbian audible content,
sible, he transforms lyrics you've heard a million but plenty — if you like this sort of stuff — to look
times into spellbinding gems. His are vocals that at. Rising Star 280.
truly fly. To boot, he’s backed by one of the classiest
groups of instrumentalists I’ve heard in a long time,
particularly pianist and producer Michael Orland.
Outstanding in-store play, featuring Rodgers &
Hammerstein’s “Ten Minutes Ago,” Jimmy Webb’s Road Tested/Bonnie Raitt. Double live record
“All I Know,” Tom Brown’s “Jonathan Wesley featuring a great duet with rocker Brian Adams. There
Oliver, Jr.” and the traditional “The Water Is Wide.” are a handful of new cuts, but basically this is Bonnie
LML 101. at her best and live. A tasteful mix of top 40 hits
alongside her quieter and more complex bluesy love
songs. “Angel From Montgomery,” “Love Me Like a
Man,” “Love Letter,” and more. Great in-store choice,
and although expensive, it’s worth buying a promo at
New Beginning/Tracy Chapman. Featuring cost for your customers. Capital 33705.
her signature sound of sparse production, this is Truth From Lies/Catie Curtis. This is what hap-
Chapman’s best and most upbeat record since her pens when indie artists get picked up by larger labels:
self-titled debut. She’s gained a more earthy and new slick packaging (in my book, usually much
spiritual edge this time ‘round, and her lyrics — improved), perhaps one or two remixed tunes, and
which now sound more like story lines — are delight- lots of hype. The hype here, however, is warranted.
ful. Think of Sweet Honey meeting Joni Mitchell. This is Curtis’ third and best folk rock disc, originally
Requires a few listens before you really take to it, but released in 1994. “Radical,” a nod toward same-sex
after a while, many of the songs become infectious. love, is being released as the first single, and the label
Fab in-store choice. Elektra 61850. thinks so much of it (and, I suppose of, Curtis) that
Classical Erotica/Various Artists. The lesbian they’ve financed a video. Lots of our girls are moving
counterpart to the gay men’s marketing invention, to larger labels as of late: Ferron’s Phantom Center
Sensual Classics Too (Teldec). This classical compilation re-released on Warner Brothers; Dar Williams’s, The
61 March/April 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Honesty Room re-released on Razor & Tie; and Kristen
F R 0 M B l L L l E H 0 L l D Hall's Fact and Fiction re-released on High Street/
Windham HilliGresttinstore play: Beware, the'ptiee i
T 0 M A D 0 N N A se - ieaS k stlnewialel r 25435. v
s British Women Composers Volume 1 and
B Volume 2. Known as a major feminist in Europe,
3 Odaline de la Martinez was born in Cuba, brought up
s. in the U.S. and moved to Britain in 1972 to study
= composition and piano at The Royal College of Music.
= One of Britain's most dynamic and gifted musicians,
S she made history in 1984 as the first woman ever to
> conduct a BBC Promenade at Royal Albert Hall. In
s 1990, she started the first European Women’s Orches-
3 tra. Volume One features de la Martinez conducting
zi the group Lontano playing works by Errollyn Wallen,
E Lindsey Cooper, Elizabeth Maconchy and Nicola
5 s :L re F ea tn au t.P i oV no.l u m ofe TYfw oo u srfe a t eu a r res lP y d e p l o a e mMYa sr t in be yz’ i Fnt ee dr e- rico Garcia
S Lorca. Excellent in-store play and promos are avail-
Z able. Lorelt 101.
o Folksong/Sisters 1. From Mary Black’s label,
$ these are the folks who brought you the fabulous
8 Celtic Women’s compilations, A Woman's Heart
The Definitive History Volumes One and Two. (If you don’t have these two
$ titles — you should.) This collection features
of Women in < s amazing songstress Eileen McGann and additional
o artists such as Dervish, Frances Black, Fionna
Rock, Pop, and Soul s Joyce, Marian Bradfield and more. Celtic music is
= E a big deal these days, and sales should be doing
s well in this genre, if you utilize your in-store pro-
LUCY O'BRIEN < mos. New Age, as a genre, seems to have passed
3 2 with the eighties and it appears as though Celtic
A behind-the-scenes look at women in S m Hou rs si ec 1m 0i 0g 2h 4t . be next up. Promos available. Gift
>
•p Eo lap Fu itnl zga er sm ou iss gi Dc ay, eS gh e B o atp Smt ie hl l -s ni t tc,l hi lk e i St is s— 2 as.
Ma Rainey Bessie Smith l o r al d • Dt ra e - P, g y o L ee n • P ti c a tm J e o r i M a i e l- Ta h en ud p r em e working in a a
male-dominated industry. Adding a feminist £
perspective to her detailed knowledge n = The Times of Day/The Turtle Creek Chorale,
of the stars and their music, and = R- Timothy Seeling, conductor; Melanie Sonnenberg,
including an abundance of personal D Mezzo-Soprano; Timothy Jenkins, Tenor; Fort
interviews, Lucy O'Brien tells these R Worth Chamber Orchestra. Their 15th season finds
women's stories and their struggle the 200-voice male chorus performing the romantic
to succeed in a culture they are pieces of Schubert, Bruckner, Mendelssohn and
Biebl. For those unfamiliar with the group, they are
striving to call their own. perhaps the best-selling chorale group in inde-
In bookstores now from PENGUIN pendent bookstores and very popular with gay
men. Active in the fight against AIDS, the chorus
March/April 1996 62 Volume 18 Number 6
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
was the focal point of the PBS award-winning docu- visible location. Customers waiting in line buy lots of
mentary, “After Goodbye: An AIDS Story,” and is a titles this way.
member of GALA, the Gay and Lesbian Choruses Blurbs. This great idea is only applicable for
of America. Sonnenberg’s vocals are tremendous, discs that are faced out. I tried it with Laura at New
and the chorus has never sounded better. Reference Words Bookstore in Cambridge MA toward the end
Recordings 67. of the holiday season and lots of titles moved. Write
two or three sentences about the disc and tape it to
the bottom of the disc so that only those lines
(approximately half an inch) show. If possible, it’s nice
to cater to your locale. Feel free to call me for help at
Just Released Horizon Distribution: 617-492-8191. Examples:
° The Memory of Trees /Enya. Reprise 46106.
e Victor Victoria, Soundtrack. Phillips 46919. o Patty Larkin, Strangers World
'e ` Voice of the Blood/Hildegard von Bingen. Featuring vocals from The Story and Bruce
Deutsch Harmonia 77346. Cockburn. Beautiful, introspective songwriting
o Spirits of the Wind/Mesa Music Consort. from Cape resident.
Talking Taco 131.
° Gay Anthems Volume 2 — Dance Compilation. e° Joan Osborne, Relish
Almighty 16. Features “What If God Was One of Us;” smart,
° Glad to Be Gay Volume 3 — Dance Compilation. gritty new queen of Rock/Gospel; opened for
Dance Street 34828. Etheridge on summer tour. ©)
° We've All Got Stories/Jane Sapp and Dream
Project. Rounder 8035.
° Boys for Pele/Tori Amos. Expect lots of push in
Gay press. Atlantic 82852.
e M wo it tt ha l J C oi at ny B/ aD ea zr . RW azil ol ria m &s . T J ieu s 2t 8 2f 1i .nished touring (800) 634-6044
The largest selection anywhere of
Women's Spirituality
In The Studio And Soon-to-be-Released and New Age Music
° Tornado/Rory Block. Rounder 3140.
° An Odd Collection/Peggy Seeger. Rounder 4031. Chanting *# Song *# Goddess *#
° Wish I'd Taken Pictures/Pansy Division. Celtic * Harp 3# Meditation 3*
Lookout 133. Neo-Pagan *# Healing Music
e Ferron, in studio recording for Warner Brothers.
° Ani DiFranco, recording disċ number 8! featuring:
Kay Gardner Enya 3% Lisa Thiel
Display Corner ú Libana Ú Moving Breath
Posters and Counter Displays. I know that space Starhawk and many more
in most stores is limited. But try to take advantage of
posters — distributors have lots on hand. TEA P
“Now Playing.” Do not underestimate the value
a pn lad y i nse gl l in ing tp ho ew e sr t o ro ef . a P l as cm e a l tl h ip s r o op n d ti hsp e l a by ai sn eg o t fh e t h d eisc Nationally Distributing Music by Women for 20 Years
computer cash register, or somewhere on the counter.
Wherever it goes, be sure it’s situated in a particularly
63 March/April 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminism? Present Imperfect
The Third Generation in Stories by Russian Women
Fiction Ayesha Kagal
edited by Irene Zahava and Natasha Perova, editors
SIn art ar ho d u Sc ct hi uon lm ab ny MFi ir ks ht a ip l u b Gl ois rh be ad c h ein v’ s t h lie b e raf alt ie zr inm gath of
Feminism? is a powerful reforms, these stories revel in the
multi-cultural collection of commonalities of human experi-
short stories by “third gener- ence, even as they reassert a pecu-
a at ni do n ” B l aA ckn g l fo e, m L inat isin tsa , f A ros mian , all l mia yr sly ti c aR l,u s s ai na dn sb ue pli ee rf n ai tn u r at lh .e spiritual,
socioeconomic and religious
heritages. May 1996; 208 pages • $59.95 hc • $17.00 pb
304 pages *• $60.00 hc • $18.00 pb
Feminist Dilemmas in Fieldwork Opera in the Flesh
Sexuality in Operatic Performance
edited by Diane L. Wolf Sam Abel
“An exemplary collection of essays of, by, and for femi- Abel examines the sexual appeal of
nists who have bravely wrestled with the dilemmas on the opera and of the obsessive hold it
g a ac rr ru oo umu ann e dd n p ta o hn hfd e e t gt hh lre oe s b e e s p aa w sg t ie u l. l t a e T p h lr‘e r oi e f f kim tle a ct entu i oor .vni i”t s cy e , o an g n r dJfa c e e m s, eu ai n sa odin s nd t e id fp t io eel tli hdt hi w nca o ol gr k -’ Stacey, th suoa cs h t ho n e a s s i et dns e ss iud rae elv , o qt sue eae dls ui, t c i teg is oi v n oi ,n f g a no s p dc er ru at ,iny
University of California at Davis EXCESS.
“This collection is an antidote to feminist paralysis over
the dilemmas of fieldwork! Feminists from different dis- April 1996; 272 pages * $24.00 hc
ciplines write honestly about negotiating power over,
under, around, and alongside those we study.
Infdispeinseable l redadin.g ”for al l sAtudentis hboundw for a the Ong, The Material Queer
A Lesbian and Gay Cultural Studies Reader
University of California at Berkeley
240 pages * $54.95 hc • $17.95 pb edited by Donald Morton
June 1996; 406 pages * $65.00 hc • $25.00 pb
Women’s Ethnicities
Journeys Through Psychology Staging Gay Lives
edited by Karen Fraser Wyche An Anthology of Contemporary Gay Theater
and Faye J. Crosby Foreword by Tony Kushner
Mar. 1996; 224 pages • $55.00 hc • $17.95 pb edited by John M. Clum
496 pages * $65.00 hce • $24.95 pb
dad dW ei s t.viewPress
A Division of Harper CollinsPublishers
5500 Central Avenue • Boulder, CO • 80301-2877
303) 444-3541 * Fax (303 449 3356 . 1-800-386-5656
March/April 1996 64 Volume 18 Number 6
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
By Richard Labonté Louganis, telling a story of abuse and shame, of tri-
A Different Light Bookstore /San Francisco umph and growth, of coming out, and of HIV. The
hardcover edition set sales records everywhere; this
Another season, more new books. But we're edition has an epilogue in which Louganis discusses the
never jaded — those catalogues are like Christmas reaction to his book. $12.95 pb, 0-452-27590-3, Plume.
every day. *Stranger Among Friends by David Mixner —
As usual, I've organized books loosely by subject, Insider-activist Mixner, a once and perhaps future
and starred * titles I think merit a second glance for FOB (friend of Bill Clinton), tells a fascinating story of
your crowded shelves. what it’s like to be a gay man walking the corridors of
And, a quiz: can you guess what buzzword may power, and what happens when he confronts set-in-
be replacing “queer” in book titles these days? stone barriers of bigotry and ignorance. Mixner’s
politics aren't to everyone’s tastes, but this candid
Biography/Memoirs/Letters memoir is fascinating stuff. $22.95 cl, 0-553-10073-4,
*Geography of the Heart: A Memoir by Fenton Bantam, August.
Johnson — This extraordinarily emotional, lucid and
true memoir of love and death demonstrates that
there can never be enough writing about how two
men can make a life together, and how one can live
on when the other has died. $22 cl, 0-684-81417-X, Of House and Home by Steve Gunderson with
Scribner, May. Bruce Bawer — More Washingtonia in this account by
*Heaven’s Coast by Mark Doty — Brilliant poet a homosexual (ok, maybe gay; never queer) Republi-
Doty (Atlantis, Bethlehem in Broad Daylight) turns to can Congressman about being out, a friend of
memoir here, in a moving elegy for a lost lover. $23 cl, Gingrich, and a happily mated man. $23.95 cl, 0-525-
0-06-017210-8, HarperCollins. 94197-5,Viking, August.
Walt Whitman’s America: A Cultural Biogra-
phy by David S. Reynolds — Believe it or not,
something fresh on the life of America’s great gray
(and gay) poet. $19 pb, 0-679-76709-6, Vintage.
*Gay Olympian: The Life and Death of Dr. Tom Patrick White: Letters edited by David Marr —
Waddell by Tom Waddell and Dick Schaap — It’s pricey, but if you have any market for literary
Sportscaster Schaap started this biography before the lives laid bare, try at least one copy of this book. Will
death of Waddell, founder of the Gay Olympics (00ps, it help if I add that Annie Proulx said, “White, iras-
Gay Games); he was so inspired by the Games that he cible, vengeful, difficult, indisputably one of this
himself competed in New York in 1994. $23 cl, 0-394- century's great writers...the letters are vigorous,
57223-8, Knopf, June. strong, disturbing...illuminate a passionate life.” $35
*Breaking the Surface by Greg Louganis with c], 0-226-89503-3, University of Chicago, May.
Eric Marcus — Paper edition of a gay publishing Pop Out: Queer Warhol edited by Jennifer
phenomenon, the life story of Olympic diver Doyle, Jonathan Flatley and Jose Esteban Muñoz —
65 March/April 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
This Series Q sets out on what gossip columnist Nights in Aruba) has been long-awaited, to put an
Michael Musto calls “a fabulous mission...to reclaim awkward construction on a welcome event. It’s
Andy Warhol as a queer artist/icon.” Makes sense. He about Lark, a man ashamed to be mourning his
was, after all, an obvious queen, a fan of prurience and middle age when so many younger than he are
porn, an admirer of the male body. $16.95 pb, 0-8223- dying and dead, and it’s about both the present and
1741-9, Duke, April. the past. After the catalogue was printed the title
Perpetual Motion: The Public and Private Lives was changed from In the Mirror of Men’s Eyes, which
of Rudolf Nureyev by Otis Stuart — Paper edition of I think is better... $25 cl, 0-688-04857-9, William
a “witty and graceful” biography of a master of ballet, Morrow, June.
written with well-crafted honesty by a dance and *Skinned Alive: Stories by Edmund White —
theater critic who died of AIDS shortly after the 1995 Paper edition of a major writer’s collected recent
publication of the hardback edition. $13.95 pb, 0-452- shorter fiction, some of it sweetly salty. $13 pb, 0-679-
27579-2, Plume. 76416-X, Vintage, July.
*Other Entertainment: A Collection of Pieces by Getting Over Homer by Mark O'Donnell —
Ned Rorem — Fab diarist and acclaimed composer Debut novel about a gay man and his straight brother
Rorem limns his life through an eclectic collection of hitting New York and middle age at the same time. $21
essays, reviews, musings and even obituaries. $25 cl, cl, 0-394-44590-0, Knopf, April.
0-684-82249-0, Simon & Schuster, August. *The Golden Age of Promiscuity by Brad Gooch
Bitter Sweet: A Biography of Noel Coward by — The biographer of Frank O'Hara (and a fine bio it
Philip Hoare — The exquisite biographer of Stephen was) sets this highly readable and smart novel (a rare
Tenant turns here to a better-known aesthete, the combination) in the gay club scene of 1970s New York.
scathingly witty playwright and performer who well $24 cl, 0-394-44708-3, Knopf, June.
deserves another turn on the stage. $30 cl, 0-684- Portrait of a Young Man Drowning by Charles
80937-0, Simon & Schuster, August. Perry — The sexuality is twisted and scary, but there’s
*Midlife Queer: Autobiography of a Decade, much to recommend in this re-issue of this African
1971-1981 by Martin Duberman — From the perspec- American writer's 1962 novel about a young man’s
tive of a life lived actively, Duberman tells a story of Oedipal passions. $11 pb, 0-393-31462-6, Norton, May.
pre-AIDS activism with an historian’s balance, an
activists passion and a fine writer’s high style. $23 cl,
0-684-81836-1, Scribner, May. ii
*Keith Haring: Journals — The private writ-
ings of the late artist and AIDS activist reveal the Pereira Declares by Antonio Rabucchi, trans-
intellect behind the emotion. $27.95 cl, 0-670-84774-7, lated by Patrick Creagh — The transformation of Mr.
Dutton, July. Pereira from bored, lonely, semi-retired journalist to
Split Image by Charles Winecoff — The first gentle hero in the fight against dictatorship (Portugal,
in-depth biography of actor Anthony Perkins dis- 1938) is at the charming center of this Italian novel —
cusses, among other topics, how his veiled and meeting an appealing young man is the catalyst.
homosexuality affected his work. $24.95 cl, 0-525- $19.95 cl, 0-8112-1319-6, New Directions, May.
94064-2, Dutton, August. Our Lady of Babylon by John Rechy — I'm
Lettin’ It All Hang Out by RuPaul — Paper edi- always excited by a new novel by the author, more
tion of a drag diva’s life story. $10.95 pb, than 30 years ago, of City of Night. Rechy’s recent work
0-7868-8165-8, Hyperion, June. is measured and moody and beautifully crafted; here,
in a sensuous mix of myth and dream, he sets out to
Fiction vindicate all women falsely accused throughout time
*The Boat Ramp by Andrew Holleran — It’s of whoredom and harlotry. $22.95 cl, 1-55970-335-0,
been nearly 20 years since Holleran’s first novel Little Brown, May.
(Dancer From the Dance, still in print) energized a *The God in Flight by Laura Argiri — Paper
nascent gay literary scene; this third novel (after edition of my favorite novel of last year, a truly
66
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
engaging romance between teacher and student, set escaped serial killer who heads for New Orleans to
at Yale in the late 1880s. One critic called the author follow what he calls “the art of killing boys.” He teams
a combination of Nabokov and Anne Rice; another up with an even more depraved killer to stalk Tran, a
called her the successor to Gordon Merrick and Pa- young Vietnamese runaway; add to the mix Tran’s
tricia Nell Warren. Wow — that’s quite a range. ex-lover, a talk show host called Lush Rimbaud, who
$12.95 pb, 0-14-025413-7, Penguin, May. is dying of AIDS. Ooof. Original and unsettling. $21
*Like People in History by Felice Picano — cl, 0-684-82254-7, Simon & Schuster, August.
Paper edition of a sweeping, generational gay epic,
told by a stylish and wise storyteller. $13.95 pb, 0-14-
024525-1, Penguin, June. s
I Married a Dead Man by Cornell Woolrich — It
takes a movie to bring back into print the work of Simple Justice: A Benjamin Justice Mystery by
Woolrich, a dark, dank writer of suspense whose John Morgan Wilson — Any writer whose debút is
‚gayness is subtext to his many pulp tales of the out- compared to Michael Nava and Joseph Hansen and
sider. A good book for the mystery/suspense section. Sandra Scoppettone has plenty to live up to; Wilson
$5.95 pb, 0-14-023427-6, Penguin. comes close in this story, set in West Hollywood,
*Traitor to the Race by Darieck Scott — Paper about an award-winning journalist investigating the
edition of an excellent debut novel about the relation- death of his lover. $21 cl, 0-385-48234-5, Doubleday,
ship between a black man and a white man, about the August.
_ tension of a bi-racial life, and about the rightness of *Jack of Hearts by Joseph Hansen — A master of
love. $10.95 pb, 0-14-27335-8, Penguin, June. the mystery genre writes here, in a prequel to Living
Exquisite Corpse by Poppy Z. Brite — SF writer Upstairs, about growing up very young and smartly
Brite turns here to horror, in a gruesome story of an gay in Los Angeles of the early 1940s, where 17-year-
Gender & Society Series... Gender, Change & Society Series...
Women and the State:
Jenny Shaw Edited by Peter Aggleton et al. International Perspectives
CL 0-74 819 49 -5 0 1• 02 124 -p 6p • $75.00 CL 0-74 819 49 -6 0 2• 92 140 -p 8p • $75.00 aEd nit ded Gby e rS ah lir din in M e . R La ii evesley
PB 0-7484-0102-4 • $23.95 PB 0-7484-0292-6 • $24.95 April 1996 • 208pp
CL 0-7484-0360-4 • $69.95
Gender and Career in Bisexualities and AIDS: PB 0-7484-0361-2 • $24.95
Science and Engineering International Perspectives
Julia Evetts Edited by Peter Aggleton Call for a free brochure!
March 1996 • 224pp April 1996 • 208pp
CL 0-7484-0250-0 • $69.95 0-7848-0393-0 CL $75.00
PB 0-7484-0251-9 • $24.95 0-7484-0394-9 PB $24.95
©
AR lie sow n r Li et eing School Geography Edited D b iay n a L i Ls ea o nA ard dkins and 1 90T 0 a Fry ost l Ro o P ar du ,b l i Ss uh ie& tr es 1s 0i 1n cF e * r 1 B7 r9a i8 stn ol, c Pi As 19007-1598
M Ca Lrc h 0 1 -9 796 4 8 • 4 2 -4 00 2pp 97-7 • $69.95 CL 0-74 819 49 -6 0 2• 92 308 -p 4p • $75.00 To order call Toll Free
PB 0-7484-0298-5 • $24.95 PB 0-7484-0294-2 • $23.95 1-800-821-8312
Volume 18 Number 6 67
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
old Nathan comes of age sexually, emotionally and two boys who crossed paths on the Little League
creatively. $10.95 pb, 0-452-27343-9, Plume. baseball field and, several years later, understood
*American Studies by Mark Meriis — Paper edi- the odd bond they shared. $12 pb, 0-06-092686-4,
tion of an excellent work of historical fiction, bringing HarperCollins.
to light and to life the closeted world of McCarthy-era Mask for a Diva by Grant Michaels — Paper
homophobia and self-inflicted shame. $10.95 pb, 0-14- edition of a Boston-set mystery in the fine tradition
025090-5, Penguin. of bitchy accidental sleuth. $9.95 pb, 0-312-14138-5,
*The Penguin Book of International Gay St. Martin’s.
Writing edited by Mark Mitchell — The first collec- *Nightswimmer by Joseph Olshan — Paper edi-
tion of non-English fiction, 47 stories or novel tion of an intense New York novel of obsessive love,
excerpts, merely whets the appetite for access to trans- with superb, haunting writing. $6.99 pb, 0-425-15190-
lations of work from other parts of the world; and 5, Berkeley, April.
though there are a tad too many “classics” (de Sade, The William Powell & Myrna Loy Murder Case
Balzac, Freud, Musil, Flaubert), it’s still an elegant by George Baxt — Veteran mystery writer Baxt con-
read. $14.95 pb, 0-14-023459-4, Penguin, April. tinues his pun-a-page series in which real folks from
A Stone Boat by Andrew Solomon — Paper the past end up solving crimes. $20.95 cl, 0-312-
edition of an intense narrative of loss, as a gay man 14071-1, St. Martin’s.
confronts his own confusions while coping with the *And This Too Shall Pass by E. Lynn Harris —
dying, of cancer, of his mother. $10.95 pb, 0-452- New novel from African American writer Harris,
27498-2, Plume. whose previous Just As I Am and Invisible Life have
*The Father of Frankenstein by Christopher become steady backlist sellers. $23.95 cl, 0-385-48030-
Bram — Fine fiction here, in the form of a re-telling of X, Bantam Doubleday Dell.
the last sad days of the life of gay Hollywood director
James Whale (Frankenstein). Bram gets better with Poetry & Plays
every book. $10.95 pb, 0-452-27337-4, Plume. What the Body Told by Rafael Campo — The
*Gossip by Christopher Bram — It’s a treat to second collection of work from doctor-poet Campo
have two novels in two years from Bram, as fine a (The Other Man Was Me) continues his riveting, com-
traditional writer as the genre of gay fiction has ever passionate exploration of sexuality, gender, identity,
produced. $23.95 cl, 0-525-94914-8, Viking, August. life and death; vivid stuff. $12.95 pb, 0-8223-1742-7,
*Flesh and Blood by Michael Cunningham — Duke, April.
Paper edition of one of last year’s smoothest fiction Master Class by Terrence McNally — The new-
reads, a several-generation tale of a too-typical, terri- est play by the author of Love! Valour! Compassion! is
bly dysfunctional — but in the end, entirely endearing an homage to Maria Callas. $8.95 pb, 0-452-27615-2,
— family. $13 pb, 0-684-87431-8, Scribner, May. Plume.
Eros in Boys Town: Contemporary Gay Poetry
edited by Michael Lassell is a collection of steamy
p verse, a kind of sequel to Lassell’s The Name of Love,
out last year from St. Martin’s ($10 cl, 0-312-11863-5),
They Fly at Ciron by Samuel R. Delany — Mass which has been an amazing seller by poetry stand-
market edition of an earlier and re-worked fantasy ards. This second collection is perfect for bedside, or
by one of the field’s finest stylists. $8.99 pb, 0-812- bed-time, reading. ($12 pb, 0-517-70280-0, Crown).
54317-3, Tor.
*Man of the House by Stephen McCauley — The AIDS
second novel from the author of the droll and deft Object First Comes Love by Marion Winik — The hon-
of My Affection is a sweet story of domesticity running estly weepy, lovely account of a straight woman’s love
slightly amok. $22 cl, 0-684-81053-0, Simon & Schuster. of a gay man and of her loss with his death to AIDS.
Mysterious Skin by Scott Heim — Paper edi- $23 cl, 0-679-44572-2, Pantheon, April; also available
tion of a well-done debut coming-out novel about as an Audiobook, $18, -45165-X.
March/April 1996 68
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Virus: My Search for the Origin of AIDS by Luc
Montagnier — Almost all of the writing about early
AIDS has been from an American perspective; here,
the French researcher who actually did first uncover A
HIV tells about a medical mystery. $27.50 cl, 0-393- A
03923-4, Norton, August. A
Fatal Advice: How Safe-Sex Education Went A
Wrong by Cindy Patton — One of the earliest thinkers
o apn p rA oI aD chS e tx oa m a i n ne as t i oh no aw l sa a f m e-i ss eg xu id Ae Id D S a n pd o li cp yu r i ft aa in leic dal (most orders shipped same day)
completely to stem a sexual epidemic. $15.95 pb, Instore Play CDs
0-8223-1747-8, Duke, May.
The Art of AIDS: From Stigma to Conscience (free if available or at cost)
by Rob Baker — Lower-priced new edition of the Posters/Display
first book to study how AIDS has affected the form
and content of contemporary art. $12.95 pb, 0-8264- (posters, 1x1s counter units, etc.)
0653-X, Continuum. 100% Returns
Share the Care: How to Organize a Group to
Care for Someone Who Is Seriously Ill by Cappy Goldenrod & Horizon
Capossela and Sheila Warnock — While not AIDS- Music Distribution
specific, this is a useful book for the families or friends (517) 484-1712. Fax: (517) 484-1771
of the ill who aren't instinctive about how to be E-Mail: GRDIST@aol.com
caregivers. $13 pb, 0-684-81136-7, Fireside. N e Mw i n nE en sg ol ta an d O fO ff icf ei :c e : ( 6 1(6 21 ) 7 ) 4 6 4 29 -2 2- 98 01 491
Gay/Bi Life
*The World Out There: Becoming Part of the sociologist’s look at how men and women have been
Lesbian and Gay Community by Michael Thomas gay in America — how they have forged communities,
Ford — Billed as the first book for the boys and girls developed group identity, dealt with matters of race,
coming out both in and from the 1990s, with chapters class and oppression. $16.95 pb, 0-226-55193-8, Univer-
on coming out, sex and health, relationships, finding sity of Chicago, June.
your place in the community and living in a straight The Grace of Coming Home:-Spirituality,
world. $14.95 pb, 1-56584-234-0, New Press, August. Sexuality and the Struggle for Justice by Melanie
Friends and Lovers: Gay Men Write About the Morrison — The author celebrates both her lesbian
Families They Create edited by John Preston with and Christian identities in a fresh and challenging
Michael Lowenthal — Paper edition of one of the late interpretation of theology. $10.95 pb, 0-8298-1071-4,
Preston’s creative anthologies. $12.95 pb, 0-452-27254- Pilgrim Press, April.
8, Plume, May. ©
*Setting Them Straight: You Can Do Some-
thing About Bigotry and Homophobia in Your Life
by Betty Berzon — The author of Permanent Partners
provides a battle plan for confronting the discrimi- *One More River to Cross: Black and Gay in
nation we all face; it’s one of the most important America by Keith Boykin — In this book of inter-
books of the season — and it’s swell that it’s an views and reflections, Boykin targets both gay
affordable paperback original. $10.95 pb, 0-452- racism and Black homophobia, suggests that in gen-
27421-4, Plume, June. eral Blacks are less homophobic than whites and
American Gay by Stephen O. Murray — The first points to evidence of a long tradition of African
book in a new Worlds of Desire series under the gen- American same-sex relationships. $23.95 cl, 0-385-
eral editorship of Gilbert Herdt, this is a clear-headed 47982-4, Anchor, August.
69 March/April 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Homosexuality: Debating the Issues edited by Michelangelo Signorile — Paper edition of a useful,
Robert M. Baird and M. Katherine Baird — Part of a smart book whose title pretty much explains all. $11
continuing Contemporary Issues series, this on-the- pb, 0-684-82617-8, Fireside, June.
one-hand-on-the-other-hand collection sets out *The Case for Same-Sex Marriage: From Sexual
positions for and against the causes of homosexuality, Liberty to Civilized Commitment by William N.
what constitutional role the courts should play, gays Eskridge, Jr. — The right to civil or religious union is
in the military and religious attitudes. $16.95 pb, the hot topic of the last half of this decade; the author
1-57392-003-7, Prometheus. includes a history of gay unions throughout the
The Invention of Heterosexuality by Jonathan world, letters from a broad range of clergy supporting
Ned Katz — No, there’s no tongue in a cheek here; this civil marriage and of course a discussion of marriage
is a sound and serious study of the evolution of “het- as gay assimilation or threat to society. $25 cl, 0-684-
erosexual” from a term of opprobrium to the “gold 82404-3, The Free Press, May.
standard of sexuality.” $13.95 pb, 0-452-27542-3,
Plume, April.
A Separate Creation: The Search for the e
Biological Origins of Sexual Orientation by Chan-
dler Burr — The 1994 cover story in Harper’s made *A Queer Geography: Journeys Toward a Sexual
waves; now Burr expands his thinking on the topic Self by Frank Browning — Through interviews and
of what, at the most basic biological levels, makes a interpretation, reporting and exploring, the author of
person either homo or hetero. $24.95 cl, 0-7868-6081-2, bestseller The Culture of Desire explores the question of
Hyperion, April. what makes up gay identity; New York and Naples,
Beyond Queer: Challenging Gay Left Kentucky and Washington DC, France, Brazil and
Orthodoxy edited by Bruce Bawer — The queer New Guinea all figure in his journey. $24 cl, 0-517-
right roars hère, with essays by Bawer, Andrew Sul- 59857-4, Crown, April.
livan, David Boaz, Jonathan Rauch and others, *Sex Between Men: An Intimate History of the
arguing that, well, let the publisher ’s very own blurb Sex Lives of Gay Men Postwar to Present by Doug
explain: “Frustrated by ideologically out-of-touch Sadownick — Personal testimony, thoughtful com-
gay-activist leaders and gay-studies theorists, and mentary and archival sources help shape novelist
dismayed by a puerile and counter-productive Sadownick’s take on the last five decades of gay male
‘queer image’ that represents neither the lives nor seSxuaalitny Fin r Amaernicac. $i25s ccl, o 0-,06 -2 51J268u-4, n Haerp.er - 3
the goals of a great majority of gay people, a group
of independent intellectuals — most but not all of Why Suicide: Answers to 200 of the Most
them gay — have begun to define a promising, seri- Frequently Asked Questions About Suicide,
ous and mature new way of thinking about gay life Attempted Suicide and Assisted Suicide by Eric
in America” blah blah blah blah blah blah. $24 cl, Marcus — The author of Making History, Is It a Choice?
0-684-82766-2, The Free Press, June. and Male Couples and coauthor of Breaking the Surface
tackles a topic too often avoided. $10 pb, 0-06-251166-
1, HarperSanFrancisco.
` *Fodor’s Gay USA by Andrew Collins — Vener-
able travel publisher Fodor’s breaks new ground with
*Vice Versa: Bisexuality and the Eroticism of this 40-destination guide for lesbian and gay travel-
Everyday Life by Marjorie Garber — Paper edition of ers, a combination of Damron’s and Travel & Leisure.
an instant classic on bisexuality, and kudos to the $19.50 pb, 0-679-02909-5, Fodor's, May.
publisher for dropping the price from $18 even after *NetOut by Michael Wolff and Out Magazine —
the catalogue was printed. $16 pb, 0-684-82412-4, Travel of a different sort is guided in this look at gay
Touchstone, May. and lesbian life in (are we still allowed to use this
*Outing Yourself: How to Come Out as Lesbian word?) cyberspace. $22 pb, 0679-77171-9, Random
or Gay to Your Family, Friends and Coworkers by House Reference, May.
March/April 1996 70
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Finding True Love in a Man-Eat-Man World: early nineteenth century Germany.” $17.95 pb,
The Intelligent Guide to Gay Dating, Romance and 0-8047-2615-9, Stanford, May.
Eternal Love by Craig Nelson — Though it’s wryly Beethoven’s Kiss: Pianism, Perversion and the
written, there’s a lot of common-sense advice in this Mastery of Desire by Kevin Kopelson — The
book on dating, romance, relationships and more. author, leader of the new musicology academics,
$12.95 pb, 0-440-50689-1, Bantam Doubleday Dell. doing for classical music what earlier scholars have
Oscar Wilde’s Guide to Modern Living edited done for the written word, establishes the links
by John Calvin Batchelor and Craig McNeer — I don’t between romantic pianism in relation to gender and
know that this book belongs in the “Gay/Bi Life” sexuality. Sounds dull? Not at all. Kopelson is a
section, but heck: it’s a great idea for a small book, the warm, funny writer who has crafted a meditation
aphorisms of Wilde, pithy wit organized into five and a memoir out of his scholarship. $12.95 pb,
dozen categories. $15 pb, 0-385-48179-9, Bantam 0-8047-2598-5, Stanford, April.
Doubleday Dell.
An Evening at the Garden of Allah: A Gay
‘Cabaret in Seattle by Don Paulson with Roger Simp-
son — Here’s an exciting, even astonishing, oral
history of probably the first gay-owned cabaret in Jackie Under My Skin: Interpreting an Icon by
America...in Seattle circa 1946, proof once more that Wayne Koestenbaum — Paper edition of an irreverent
there was hearty gay life before Stonewall. $34.95 cl, reverential assessment of Jackie O’s place in the
0-231-09698-4, Columbia, April. American (gay) psyche. $12.95 pb, 0-452-27649-7,
Plume, May.
Essays & Criticism Pederasty and Pedagogy in Ancient Greece by
Outing Goethe and His Age, edited by Alice A. William Armstrong Perry III — “Combining impecca-
Kuzniar, argues, in twelve contributor voices, for the ble scholarship with accessible prose, [the author]
“incontrovertible sexual nature of male-male and argues that institutionalized pederasty began after
femUale-femEale relTationsh ips in laSte ei ghte enthN and N 650 BCE, far later thSan prAevious aNuthors h ave thouaght,
! Check all the boxes you can and mail to FBN, I am/We are: [H Owned and operated by :
ı PO Box 882554, San Francisco, CA 94188 [] Reader/Bibliophile women '
: ! [ :H NW oam Hmen'se St u [dHie Bs T e oLachioebr r [ kHa rC soi-aow enn e ld laanned d r ru n m by e w :nom e n! :
! Business Name [H Writer [H Owned and operated by men :
; Aes E] Pubisher Bookstores — We also stock: !
- : 3 Periodical yo Lesbian books :
' : iG I PV h/S[oR nNte e/ Z Ip [ l [GJ - oGetr hanf ets rwe o mr[Jana l[ GH a F yeim nin mistt e n en 'o srn - fetic itstio lnte s : !!
: [] One Year- $70. Check enclosed. Bookstores, Publishers and [N Leftist/political '
: : Periodicals —/s your focus primarily: [] New age/metaphysical !
: [J One Year - $75. Bill us. Elsfeminist El'chiren :
: [H + $9 for Canadian postage. El Lesbian E] other :
:: [ DH + G$19a y f o r[ Hot h eBr a icnkte r niastisounael s p osatvagaei. l a[ b Llees b ia—n & $ G6a y i !
: []1/2year-$35. [D Alternative/political each or $30/year. Check !
L [H] sample copy - $6. [J General independent enclosed. ij
Volume 18 Number 6
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
and was initiated as a means of stemming overpopu- The answer is “tribe” — though perhaps three
lation in the upper class.” Hmmm. Lots o’ buttons that books isn’t entirely a trend... let’s see what this year
could be pressed on a topic that deserves discussion. brings. The three titles that cropped up were MCC
$24.95 cl, 0-252-02209-2, University of Illinois, June. Pastor Nancy Wilson's Our Tribe: Queer Folks,
*Same-Sex Dynamics Among Nineteenth- God, Jesus, and the Bible ($15 pb, 0-06-069396-7,
Century Americans: A Mormon Example by D. HarperSanFrancisco); Reviving the Tribe: Regener-
Michael Guinn — The question asked is what were ating Gay Men’s Sexuality and Culture in the
same-sex relationships like 100 years ago outside of Ongoing Epidemic by Eric Rofes ($14.95 pb,
New York and San Francisco? The answer is that 1-56023-876-3, Harrington Park Press); and Joining
they were widely accepted, even among Mormons the Tribe: Growing Up Gay and Lesbian in the ‘90s
of the time, who were “remarkably tolerant of ho- by Linnea Due ($12.95 pb, 0-385-47500-4, Anchor).
moeroticism until the mid-1950s.” $29.95 cl, And, says Rofes, though he and Due are in the same
0-252-02205-X, University of Illinois, June. Bay Area writing group, neither realized the other
was being tribal in their title.
And my favorite lesbian title of the New Year?
It’s Sarah Van Arsdale’s Toward Amnesia, an hyp-
notic, haunting and irresistible fiction about a
*Out in the Field: Reflections of Lesbian and woman who, faced with the departure of her lover
Gay Anthropologists edited by Ellen Lewin and and best friend, hurtles across country to a lonely
William Leap — Not many books are really different; cabin life, where she begins “amnesia exercises” as
this one ranks up there, though, as invert anthros a way of forgetting that which she cannot live with-
discuss their personal experiences in the field and as out. $19.95 cl, 1-573-22017-5, Riverhead. ©
open researchers. $14.95 pb, 0-252-06533-6, University
of Illinois, May. Canada, continued from page 58.
That’s most, but not all, of the gay-male books Angel Mill chronicles the experiences of three gen-
due this spring and summer. Publisher catalogues erations of working-class women, from emigration at
hadn't arrived for Farrar Straus, Beacon, Houghton the turn of the century, through the coal miners’
Mifflin and a few other mainstream houses by this strikes of the twenties, to the upheaval of the 1960s.
issue's January 5 deadline, nor had the distribution C$16.95 pb, 0-920953-91-3, Cormorant Books. Avail-
catalogues for PGW and Consortium; and of course able through General Distribution Services.
the news on what Login will be carrying from the
InBook list, and Koen from the Inland list, is bound to »
be delayed somewhat by all those changes. I'll do a
follow-up Spring announcement listing next issue.
And I must make amends for leaving out an And from NeWest Press comes a novel that
important book in last issue’s survey of gay /business promises to step off the beaten path and take a few
books — and it was even the newest book of the lot, risks. Moon Honey is an intriguing, sexy, and off-
the title that gave me the idea for the column: Out in beat story about a white woman who turns into a
the Workplace: The Pleasures and Perils of Coming Black woman, a racist mother-in-law, and a husband
Out on the Job edited by Richard A. Rasi and Lourdes nick-named “God.” Are you curious to see how
Rodriguez-Nogues. It collects dozens of personal Suzette Mahy handles her first novel? C$14.95 pb,
accounts; is far more inclusive culturally, racially and 1-896300-00-6. Available through General Distribu-
in gender terms than other books covering the same tion Services.
ground; is more affordable at $12.95 pb (though is That’s the last of the late 1995 titles. Soon
priced higher than Alyson titles from previous owner enough, the early 1996 catalogues will flow in. I'll see
Sasha Alyson); and provides, thanks to the editors, an what else I can find to seduce you towards Canadian
excellent political framework for coming out on the woemenv weriterrs. Un til a thren, renjoiy v the e spsring... .if itO
job. 1-55583-251-2.
March/April 1996 72
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
E
Q
By Nan Cinnater Regiment of Women, stands nicely on its own, with
Now Voyager, Provincetown MA a very feminist plot involving a settlement-style
movement in 1920s London. ($22.95 cl, 0-312-13565-3,
Laurie R. King, one of the hottest names in St. Martin’s.)
women’s mysteries in 1995, will presumably only get Lambda winner Mary Wings brings back her hip
hotter in 96. King’s new entry in her series about and witty lesbian protagonist Emma Victor in She
lesbian homicide detective Kate Martinelli is With Came by the Book, published in simultaneous hard-
Child, in which Kate searches for her partner’s kid- cover and trade paper editions by Berkley in March.
naped stepdaughter.($21.95 cl, 0-312-15077-0, St. (This seems like a great solution to the problem of
Martin's.) King is remarkable for her ability to explore selling hardcover mysteries to women, doesn’t it?) Set
serious psychological, philosophical, and even theo- in San Francisco, the plot is something of a roman à clef,
logical issues without sacrificing the pleasures of the involving the private papers of an assassinated gay
genre. In each of the earlier Kate Martinelli mysteries, hero a la Harvey Milk. But what can you say about a
A Grave Talent and To Play the Fool, Kate had to deal mystery that begins by quoting Gertrude Stein, ends
with a prime suspect in whom the appearance of by quoting Eleanor Roosevelt, and wickedly satirizes
madness might mask either a murderer or a kind of couples counselors, body piercing, and black-tie gay
genius. In To Play the Fool, Kate's suspectis the “fool” fundraisers along the way? Except “Buy it, read it, sell
of the title: a homeless holy man who speaks only in it.” ($9 pb, 0-425-15144-1; $21.95 cl, -15147-6, Berkley.)
quotations from the Bible or Shakespeare. He is such Be sure you have plenty of copies of Original Sin
a compelling character he almost takes over the story, by P.D. James, now out in paper, in which James
but King manages (just barely) to restore the balance. returns to her favored genre and her familiar Scotland
To Play the Fool is due out in paper in June. ($5.50 pb, Yard hero, Commander Adam Dalgliesh, with a mys-
0-553-57455-8, Bantam.) tery set in the publishing world. ($6.99 pb,
Feminist booksellers who want to spread the 0-446-60234-5, Warner.) Also in print when you read
word about King had better be good at selling hard- this will be Breaking Point, the new tennis mystery
covers, as we have had to wait awfully long for paper by Martina Navratilova and Liz Nickles, the merits of
editions of her mysteries. Bantam postponed the pre- which are arguable but which will probably sell. Ball
viously announced paperback of King’s The in your court. ($23 cl, 0-679-43391-0.)
Beekeeper’s Apprentice, which will now be a fea- A Cuban American woman
tured title in Bantam’s summer mystery promotion, P.I. enters the literature with
street date July 9. The Beekeeper’s Apprentice intro- Bloody Waters by Carolina Garcia-
duces Mary Russell, smart-as-a-whip adolescent Aquilera, in which private eye
orphan, who becomes Sherlock Holmes’ protegé and, Lupe Solano searches for the bio-
ultimately, best friend. ($5.50 pb, 0-553-57165-6, Ban- logical mother of an illegally
tam.) Luckily, the hardcover sequel, A Monstrous adopted child who needs a bone
Illustrations by Yani Batteau from The Dyke Detector, marrow transplant. ($19.95 cl,
Paradigm Publishing. 0-399-14157-X, Putnam.)
73 March/April 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsI'm happy to see Val McDermid finally being
published in paper in the U.S. In addition to last fall’s
Common Murder, about lesbian reporter Lindsay Gor-
This singular woman's don ($10.95 pb, 1-883523-08-7, Spinsters Ink), we now
life story “captures all the have Crackdown, about Manchester private eye Kate
Brannigan. Although Kate is not a lesbian, she is fast-
heartbreak and glory of moving and a lot of fun. Here she
coping in difficult times.” rescues her rock critic boyfriend
from an innocent entanglement
—Armistead Maupin, with an auto theft ring that turns
author of Tales of the City very dangerous. ($4.99 pb, 0-06-
104394-X, Harper.)
WHAT IT'S LIKE The creator of the British TV
mini-series Prime Suspect has a
TO LIVE NOW first novel coming from Random
House in March. Cold Shoulder
by Lynda La Plante follows a Pasadena homicide cop
MEREDITH MARAN from her very scary alcoholic “bottom” as a prostitute
on the street, through her recovery and the search for a
Jn WHAT IT'S LIKE TO LIVE NOW, serial killer. It’s already been sold to the movies, starring
Meredith Maran explores the gap Michelle Pfeiffer. Although Pfeiffer is no Helen Mirren
between the dreams of the ‘60s and the o(o fn e P rw imom e a n Su's s p o ep ctin i won h) o, t wh ie llr e p ra or be a ba l y l o bt e o f in tf ee rm esi tn ei ds t i nf a n ths is
realities of living today, in a book filled new e Aff no or tt h. e r( $ 2 B4 r i tc l , h a0 s- 6 a7 9 - f4 i4 r1 st0 3 - n4 o, v eR l a n abd oo um t H a o u ses re i.) al killer
with uncommon insight — and her own that looks promising. In Darkening Echoes by Carol
wickedly subversive sense of humor. Smith, five women become unlikely friends when
they all stay in the same British public hospital and
discover that their lives are all connected, through
“A West Coast, bosses, ex-husbands, lovers. Unfortunately, they are
distaff Woody Allen, all also stalked by the same killer. The London Daily
Express said it was “skillfully plotted with well-drawn
with a good dollop characters and a bloodthirsty climax.” What’s not to
more compassion.” like? ($21.95 cl, 0-446-52004-7, Warner, April.)
| —Los Angeles Times Other hardcovers to watch for this spring include
“the first Jane Austen mystery,” not written by but
starring Jane Austen as an amateur sleuth: Jane and
“Compelling... the Unpleasantness at Scargrave Manor by
It's fascinating Stephanie Barron. ($19.95 cl, 0-553-10196-X, Bantam,
and heartening to May.) The new mystery by Elizabeth George is called
read about her.” In the Presence of the Enemy, and that’s about all I
—T h Be o o N k e w R e vY io er wk Times k ($n 2o 1w .9 5 e x cc l,e p 0t - 5t 5h 3a -t 0 9 2it 6 5 w -0i ,l l B p ar no tb amab ,l y A pse rl il l . ) w Ie nll Jin u n eo ,ur store.
Delacorte brings out a new anthology edited by Sara
Paretsky, Women on the Case, billed as “26 original
stories by the best women crime writers of our time,”
M including Paretsky herself, Amanda Cross and Ruth
Rendell. ($21.95 cl, 0-385-31401-9, Dell/Delacorte.)
74
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Judging by Paretsky’s 1992 anthology, A Woman's Eye, writers, right behind Grafton and Paretsky, along with
available in paper from Dell ($5.99 pb, 0-440-21335-5) Linda Barnes, Janet Dawson, and very few others. This
and still one of the best, this new collection should be one is about a hit-and-run death, in which heroine Kat
full of inventive and unusual stories, of very high Colorado not only finds the body, but is hired to prove
quality and very feminist. that it wasn’t an accident. ($5.99 pb, 0-553-57315-2,
Abigail Padgett’s books are a hard sell, in spite of Bantam.) For those who like their mysteries much more
being perfectly suited for feminist bookstores: beauti- academic, there is The George Eliot Murders by Edith
fully written; fast and suspenseful; full of great Skom. ($4.99 pb, 0- 440-21775-X, Dell, May.) This is the
characters including a brilliantly realized heroine; and sequel to The Mark Twain Murders ($4.99 pb, 0-440-
packed with progressive issues, psychological insight, 20608-1, Dell), and both feature Professor Beth Austen in
and Native American cultural influences. But again cozy whodunits that turn on literary knowledge. Both
and again I see customers’ eyes glaze over when I start are nicely packaged, with a cover blurb on The George
to explain, “The heroine is a child abuse investigator, Eliot Murders calling it “A terrific mystery!” from the
and she’s manic-depressive...” Even if you can’t figure Los Angeles Features Syndicate.
out how to sell Padgett’s books to the wide audience Ballantine is offering its annual “Women of
they deserve, stock them for the discerning few who Mystery” promotion, a floor display with four copies
will appreciate them. In Padgett’s new hardcover, each of nine titles: A Vintage Murder by Janet L.
Moonbird Boy, heroine Bo Bradley investigates the Smith, Don’t Turn Your Back on the Ocean by Janet
death of a stand-up comedian and uncovers a multi- Dawson, How I Spent My Summer Vacation by
national medical conspiracy. ($21.95 cl, 0-89296-613-0, Gillian Roberts, A Pocketful of Karma by Taffy Can-
Mysterious Press/Warner, April.) In Turtle Baby, new non, Murder in the Marketplace by Lora Roberts,
in paperback, the nearly fatal poisoning of a Mayan Elective Murder by Janet McGiffin, What Men Say by
baby leads Bo to Tijuana and the world of illegal drugs. Joan Smith, In Murder We Trust by Eleanor Hyde,
In a nice cover blurb, the Los Angeles Times Book and Jazz Funeral by Julie Smith. These are mostly last
Review calls it “ambitious, eventful, atmospheric, and year’s titles by authors of paperback series, and this is
toned with compassion.” ($5.99 pb, 0-446-40478-0, not a bad way to introduce them to your customers.
Mysterious Press/ Warner, April.) I'm familiar with the Cannon and the McGiffin, but
Presumably inspired by the recent “overnight” the rest range from mildly to strongly feminist and are
success of Marcia Muller's Sharon McCone novels a lot of fun besides. In general, this would be an ideal
(the very first of the new wave of professional female mystery promotion for feminist bookstores, except for
private eyes, introduced in 1977), Mysterious Press is the awful riser, which once again depicts a cloaked
bringing back Muller’s other series about Mexican woman raising a poisoned cup. Paging art direction.
American museum curator Elena Oliverez. The first ($207.80, 0-345-40269-3, Ballantine.) O
two paperbacks are The Tree of Death ($5.99 pb,
0-446-40420-9, April) and The Legend of the Slain Letters, continued from page 5.
Soldiers ($5.99 pb, 0-446-40421-7, June). Multi-award calling on Canada to immediately halt all such seizures.
winner Margaret Maron returns to an earlier series In 1994, PEN Canada initiated a write-in campaign
with Fugitive Colors, the new paperback about NYPD against Customs seizures with a postcard bearing the
Lt. Sigrid Harald, here investigat- image of a book caught in the jaws of a leghold trap.
ing the death of her own (male) Canada is perhaps the only democratic country
lover, a renowned artist. ($5.99 pb, in the world that lets its customs officers choose what
0-446-40393-8, Mysterious Press/ people will be allowed to read. Now that a court has
Warner, June.) ruled that that has led to some pretty arbitrary and
In May, we get Karen Kijewski’s nonsensical decisions, the next logical step is to put
paperback of Alley Kat Blues, the the choice back where it belongs, in the hands of
best-reviewed book so far in a very Canadian citizens.
good series. Kijewski ranks with a Nino Ricci
small number of women private-eye President, PEN Canada 2
75 March/April 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms1% Impressions Out of the
A Cas bs yi d Ky at e J Ca alm lowe as y Mystery Night
o rf es A idaf e t nwe tr e a ilt sth h e y f o um s nuu dmt i ml ia nt e e r d t h c eo r qp us ie et, h eW r h de an u g b O hy l t iK evr riis a B A r Mu my ie c ar nh dae al s m a on vd e
lakeside town of Cedar Hills, to the country to open a
Oregon, the man’s beautiful school for troubled girls, they
niece, Erica Trinidad, hires believe the idyllic surround-
rookie private investigator ings, fresh air, and quiet will
1 dC Coa w as sns s i ihd dey r y u nJ ucl na e'm ’ cs o e k vs i el le r rt s.o a t r ba ic zk arre Ras time it d b o sr uein csg c . e t sh se Tm , h p ae neac de. sA Acn md h f aoo nr o d la a , i os n c ea
series of crimes she believes SAA a troubled teen herself, is
i cs o t nie cd l uto s i oth ne m tu hrd ae tr , tle had ein g k h ie lr l i nto g t h he a h so r r ji ufy si tn g begun. But the town’s h bea gp ip nil sy .. .t hpu e r s su ei nn sg e a t h af tl ir tt hat ei yo n a rw e i t bh e i na g p o wl aic te cw heo dm a fn r. o mThen it
fs ae le mx mi os a st l te p hgo u ali vmc ee s h es o ne er o g u te gha hn i nt k e vsc . io d u eAl nd n c d e c a tbr oee s i bdle oes oss , k w t thh hea e t i r a u a tn nh uo mu rp i btp eii e rt s y one j t vu h is sat it o n b b se ey c to o hn m ad te t tah une r n ow v ta e ol rl ws dh o ref el am mt ih n s,e g ah s neo dnu ss ee t . h. . eot nfh e d t oru en a ne da i. gs ..y ht h t mefe ae rl ein s.gs
suspect — Erica Trinidad. When the nightmares take on human form, Olivia begs
se xC ua ass l i d ty e' ns s ii on nv e bst ei tg wa et eio nn h i es r sc eo lfm p al nic da t e Ed r i cb ay , ut nh te i l g sr ho ewing psy c Eh mic iE lm yi ly p M rois mtor ie s ean sd th her e f r wien od ms f eo nr h tel hp. at nothing bad will
learns the shocking secret o If S B NEr ic 1a -' 5s 6 2p 8a 0s -t 1.. 3. 3-3 $10.95 happen. But she is wrong. D Ie Sa Bd N w 1r -o 5n 62g 8. 0-120-1 $10.95
The Search The Wish List
by Melanie McAllester by Saxon Bennett
aT wm s e r soP n hesu en nt m y c r ah p cd eie aM sn d n g te- g o nu e fdp r c ino ao dsz up ea s h o e l rofi a c f a n ee c xdw -e h so ehm rt e a h a n r ce at r- eer t C l Sh e o he l i v M a o,d ea cag y t kg o i wl e e dt dh i w a t hti hel al r h n en sr dae h v ne e b or e w c s t t oaf h so n fr e i frg rnie ue t n sd w e, do ,man.
lover's abducted child before Maggie fled from their
a h Tir oed p k i cll oer p d o Tes e. nny Mendoza c cf a hsr it li d-oe .fn f d fs ih ani cp é , an dm ba or rr e i he id s Celia's
fr wre os hp mo o n sd h es e r t o se x e -a vl o ef vr neran -, t y i Cc ea r ac t ra el r -l , old eve C ryel ti ha, i n gal w sa hy es ka n er web e tl o, l le ivft e
aa a h b r u ed ls eu b sc d a bt nr ie adad ng . g . h i B n a Tsu g e t n t nt at h ykh e ’e se i n r i p ntfo h sel ti ee ic t ne , c c h to c sif o ld nf a i v nc d i te dna or u c s eg e pd xh a u pt s ne es t ir ri h sg iha e n tK n e ce d CC el as ae r t ry tto t ee e lr lrh t 'h sa f h s e o e e r rxb c a -e bse en eing fi br n ou e ra Fn u oan t r Ci i n fp e g u lta iws l a, s ea i o n aa n tnl e a y sdts e b e c , yi v r a e een b a tr r —u y sa t s , er v jt eeo e Mam np lc aoe po g n ul t fgo sl y ry i,n e o, y m y ia r h os e a ui l hs n a na et g ri k o eAl see rn eprs lsb i f thz w i .o ia p o hnn Nm ea. er, w a w N n is lt t.o h yh rw e u ’ es wa ii f dn e ov e wlo i el nv dge ,sd
d ii nff ver ee sn ttl iy g, a tso i o s nhe . a Tnd e nfe nll yow ’s o f sf uice pr es r b ie og rin s t h meir a k o ew n it clear that she s wh ie s h eis s f oi fn a hll ey r f hr ee ae r t .t o W a ic lk l n Mow agle gd ieg e a nth d e C u en lis ap o hk ae vn e the
c Oan f fei it ch eer r p l Tay e n b ny y th ei Mr er nul des o, zo ar , t u tr hn e i rn Ie S h B er i Ns b a od 1g n -e. l 5 y 6F o 2 r 8o 0n -e 1 5 c 0h -3o i c $e 1.. 0. .95 ec no ouu gr ha g toe f it no is h o wv he atr c no evm ere g ot t h se tai rr te d ?f ISe Bar Ns 1an -5d 6 2 t 8r 0u -1st 2 5 -e 2a c h $ 1 0o .t 9h 5er
The Naiad Press, Inc.
P.O. Box 10543 • Tallahassee, FL 32302
(904) 539-5965 • Fax (904) 539-9731 ° 1-800-533-1973
March/April 1996 76
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Compiled by Jenn Tust photos are of women-of-color writers. This unique
ASTARTE SHELL PRESS w imee ak gely s op fla n wn oe mr e f ne a wtu rr ie ts e r ss ,t r won itg h a n a d p ae rx tc ii ct uin lag r n fe ow cus on
The Eighth of September, a novel by Barbara women of color, including Alice Walker, June Jordan
Stevens Sullivan, presents the story behind the head- and others. Accompanying the photographs is text by
lines about assisted suicide. It tells the whole story, these women, describing how and by whom or by
presenting each family member’s reaction to the what their work has been most influenced. Running
matriarch’s slow decline within the full complexity of from September 1996 through December 1997, the
family life. The Friedmans are an ordinary family of planner may be used as both an academic and an
“culturally Jewish” Bostonians. The parents have annual calendar. Photographer Jean Weisinger has
loved dearly and fought lustily. The older daughter traveled throughout the world — England, Amster-
has been estranged from her mother, and the younger dam, Germany, Cuba, Australia, New Zealand, Bali,
daughter is hiding her husband’s infidelity and their Africa, Jamaica and the Southern United States —
impending divorce from her parents. This is their documenting the lives of people of color. She has
story of love, anger, pain, fear, and loyalty. It could exhibited throughout the Bay Area and her photo-
easily become your story... $12.95 pb, 1885349-01-7. graphs have appeared in a wide variety of print and
Astarte Shell Press, PO Box 3648, Portland ME 04104; visual media. $13.95 pb, 1-879960-48-6.
207-828-1992, 800-329-0941. Distributed by Login/ Alice Walker: The Banned Works, two short
InBook. —Astarte Shell Press stories by Alice Walker, introduction by Patricia Holt.
Featuring a reprint of “Roselily” and “Am I Blue?,” this
AUNT LUTE BOOKS little gift book carries a serious message. In her intro-
Imagery: Women Writers, Aunt Lute’s 1997 duction, Patricia Holt, who heads the San Francisco
weekly planner, photographs by Jean Weisinger. Chronicle Book Review, discusses the removal of these
There’s no other planner like this out there: 90% of two stories from a 1994 statewide California school
$ A
pms bladder infection unwanted pregnancy excessive flow
March/April 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
urgent warning and a passionate celebration of life
Here are the names and addresses of some of and love.” —Riane Eisler, author of The Chalice and the
the key distributors of small press titles: Blade In this intimate coming-of-age story, two sisters
Bookpeople (BP), 7900 Edgewater Drive, learn to survive alone at the edge of a failed society.
Oakland CA 94621; 800-999-4650, fax We at Calyx are impressed with the realism in this
510-632-1281. work of speculative fiction. $13.95 pb, 0-934971-49-8;
$25.95 cl, -50-1.
Login/InBook/WomenSource, 1436 West Calyx Books continues its commitment to revolu-
Randolph Street, Chicago IL 60607; tionary poetic voices with the publication of Another
800-243-0138, fax 800-334-3892, electronic Spring, Darkness: Selected Poems of Anurãdhã
800-453-0077. Mahāãpaāãra. It’s the first English translation of poetry
by this working-class woman from West Bengal.
Koen/Inland, 10 Twosome Drive, Moorestown Mahapatra’s words are ”...harsh and ambiguous and
NJ 08057; 800-257-8481, fax 609-727-6914. beautiful, at once starkly realistic and resonant with
myth, imaging a different Bengal, a different India.”
Publishers Group West (PGW), Box 8843, —Chitra Divakaruni. $11.95 pb, 0-9349971-51-X;
5E 1m 0-e 6r 5y 8v -i 1ll 8e 3 4 C .A 94662; 800-788-3123, fax $21.95 cl, -52-8, July.
Calyx Books, PO Box B, Corvallis OR 97339; 541-
Consortium, 1045 Westgate Drive, St. Paul MN 753-9384, fax 541-753-0515. Distributed by
55114; 800-283-3572. Consortium, BP, Small Press Distribution, Pacific
Pipeline, Banyan Tree Distribution, Airlift, and other
small press distributors. —Calyx Books
examination and the controversy that surrounded that
decision. Holt’s introduction describes past forms of
literary censorship in the U.S. and places the contem-
porary banning of books within that history. Also CHICORY BLUE PRESS
included is an appendix with new clippings of the A new book from a “silent” or a “quiet” feminist
censorship controversies surrounding Walker’s 1982 press is always a welcome event. Chicory Blue Press
novel The Color Purple. “Roselily” is a story about the published A Wider Giving: Women Writing After a Long
Mississippi wedding of a mother who questions mar- Silence and Memoir by Honor Moore several years ago.
riage and religion. In February of 1994 California In the years since, Sondra Zeidenstein’s Chicory Blue
Board of Education officials removed excerpts from Press has been publishing chapbooks but is now, once
this story because the Traditional Values Coalition again, publishing another wonderful collection of
complained that the work was “anti-religious.” “Am I work for trade distribution. The Crimson Edge:
Blue?” portrays a woman's reflections on the loneli- Older Women Writing edited by Sondra Zeidenstein
ness of a horse kept in solitude in a paddock. At the collects fiction, memoir and poetry by seven women
end of her musing on how little compassion humans past the age of sixty — their average age is about
have for animals, she spits out the steak she’s been seventy. Their subject matter includes flight from Nazi
eating. The State Education official explained that the Germany to refugee life in the United States; an Afri-
story was removed because it was “anti-meat-eating.” can American woman's experience of life in the North
$10.95 cl, 1-879960-47-8. and South over a period of eighty years; life in a
Aunt Lute, PO Box 410687, San Francisco CA convent and the impetus to leave it after eighteen years;
94141; 415-826-1300. Distributed by Consortium and the relationship of a mother and her schizophrenic
Small Press Distribution. —Aunt Lute Books daughter; the split psyche of a closeted lesbian; and
CALYX BOOKS much more. Each author’s work is followed by an after-
word where she discusses the issues her writing is
“A work of extraordinary power, insight, and currently addressing...
lyricism, Into the Forest by Jean Hegland is both an Zeidenstein writes, “Why an anthology of
March/April 1996 78
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termswomen writers past sixty? Iroriically, it is the very Body): “The most impressive first novel I've read re-
richness and diversity of women’s writing, in the last cently...Carol Guess is exceptionally wise.” $12.95 pb,
30 years, that highlights the frustrating dearth of
older women writers. We need their work, not only
for what they write about age, but because they write
from age, with the longer, wider perspective that
comes from the experiences of years, along with a Cleis is pleased to announce the debut publica-
very deep appreciation of the present.” Carolyn tions in two new erotica series which will appear
Heilbrun writes, “Indeed, the question arises annually, featuring the steamiest, most thought-
whether women under sixty can ever tell the absolute provoking sexual writing of the previous year. Guest
truth about women’s lives.... A revolutionary book.” judges selected from the queer literary world will
There are a lot of seventy- and eighty-year-old review submitted stories and introduce the collec-
women out there waiting for this book — not to tions. Best Lesbian Erotica 1996 is edited by Tristan
mention a generation of women looking to see what's Taormino with guest judge Heather Lewis (House
to come. I'd love to see it in next year’s Feminist Rules) and features Dorothy Allison, Pat Califia, Lucy
Bookstore Network Catalog. It will become a classic Jane Bledsoe, Nicola Griffith and Trish Thomas.
if word gets out. $16.95 pb, 1-887344-01-2. 40% on 3+. ($12.95 pb, 1-57344-054-X.) Best Gay Erotica 1996 is
Chicory Blue Press, 795 East Street North, Goshen CT edited by Michael Ford with guest judge Scott Heim
06756; 203-491-2271. Direct order only at the moment. (Mysterious Skin) and features Thomas Roche, D.
Hopefully Koen/Inland will pick it up. SCS Travers Scott, William J. Mann, Scott O'Hara and
Carol Queen. ($12.95 pb, 1-57344-052-3.)
Just in time for the ABA, Cleis will publish a collec-
tion of explicit, provocative and entertaining sex stories
CLEIS PRESS — with a curious gender twist. Switch Hitters:
Our big title for this Spring is Seeing Dell, a Lesbians Write Gay Male Erotica and Gay Men Write
thoughtful, complex first novel by Carol Guess, Lesbian Erotica coedited by Carol Queen and
whose manuscript appeared in the slush pile at Cleis Lawrence Schimel, includes Pat Califia, Larry Town-
Press. Cleis acquisitions editor Frederique Delacoste send, Wickie Stamps, Laura Antoniou, Thomas Roche,
found this story of a taxi driver in a small heartland V.K. McCarty, Marco Vassi and other gold-star authors
town so compelling that she read the entire book in from across the Kinsey spectrum. Can hot gay porn
very close to one sitting and immediately signed up flow from the pens of lesbians writers? Can a gay man
Guess, who had shown Seeing Dell to only a few write convincingly of female sexuality? Can art re-make
other publishers prior to sending to Cleis. This is the same-sex desire? Switch Hitters answers an empathic
story of Dell, a taxi driver who dies in a highway yes to all these questions, celebrating a truly queer
accident, and leaves behind two lovers — one male, approach to sexuality, where hot sex is more important
one female — and a small town populated by charac- than gender labels. $12.95 pb, 1-57344-021-3, May.
ters whose desires to touch each other — and in odd Just in time for Mother’s Day, Cleis offers a
ways, to touch Dell herself — are thwarted by their revised second edition of Different Daughters: A
human inability to know themselves or reveal them- Book by Mothers of Lesbians, Louise Rafkin’s classic
selves to each other. The cover features this work in which 25 mothers of lesbians talk about fami-
endorsement from Rebecca Brown (The Gifts of the lies, community, religion, grandchildren, and coming
79 March/April 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
out. A landmark anthology in lesbian studies, the
W o VI = N original edition of Different Daughters was publish-
y ed just in time for Mother’s Day 1987. Printing after
P DOaWuEg h Rte r&s par i nstuinpgp osrotldiv, e a,s hleeslbpiafnusl d risecsoovuerrecde i nf o Dri f fbeortehnt
themselves and their mothers. ($12.95 pb, 1-57344-
C Y B F R s P AC = 050-7, April.) Also available is Different Mothers:
Sons and Daughters of Lesbians Talk about Their
z H Lives. ($9.95 pb, 0-93941641-7.)
The long awaited Cleis Press, PO Box 8933, Pittsburgh PA 15221;
N a tte ri n g on th e N e t 412-937-1555, fax 412-937-1567. Distributed by PGW. —Cleis Press
from Dale Spender SVIA
Is it true that women use technology but
men fall in love with it? DAMRON
e | i rnl ; Edi Dtaele d Sp e nbdeyr pl acGes i ancceass hMas .o ve rG 6,a00t0t lais,ti n gsT fhore N o rWth oAmmeriecan. W’se haTveraveller
electronic revolution, and and much more. The Women’s Traveller also includes
demonstrates the need witty, informative overviews of major cities. And, of
course, each year we update and expand the Tours
for a feminist agenda and Festival section to keep our readers inspired to be
for cyberspace. on the move. $11.95 pb, 0-929435-20-6.
The premier edition of Damron Accommodations
BEN 19/54 PB t39 edited by Gina M. Gatta is a handsome guidebook to
gay-friendly accommodations throughout North
F l g me nts of a M u rd er America. Filled with essays and beautiful full-color and
HIH greyscale photographs, it gives the traveller detailed
Gillian Hanscombe | information about B&Bs, inns and hotels located in
A whodunnit among women. rural and urban settings across the continent. The
Revenge fiction daring to Damron Accommodations guide can help you find
cross genres including good yth oa ut r p ne er xf te c t v a ch ao tm ione a dw esa ty i n af tr io om n. h $1o 8m .9e 5 a ps b ,y o 0u - 9 t 2r 9a 4v 3e 5l - 1 o 8r -4 .as
literature, crime fiction, erotica The ultimate companion to The Women’s Traveller,
and lesbian literature. also edited by Gina M. Gatta, is The Damron Road
ISBN 1875559 43 4 pb $13.95 Atlas, now in its 5th edition, has detailed full-color
maps and listings of major cities across North Amer-
ica. It also contains helpful directions from airports to
I NIFEX PRE. S S gay areas of town, an overview of weather conditions
and annual events, as well as general visitors informa-
173 Slater Boulevard, Staten Island, NY 10305 tion. The Road Atlas and all of the books in the
Tel. 718 351 9599 • MKPubServ@aol.com Damron Family are sure to be solid and fun-filled
Distributed in the USA & Canada by guides in your travels. $14.95 pb, 0-929435-17-6.
INBOOK/LOGIN PUBLISHERS Damron Company, PO Box 422458, San Fran-
Tel. 800 243 0138 • Fax 800 334 3892 cisco C AI n 94g14r2; a 8m00-4 6 2-P66D54.C D.i st r—ibutDed a bmy BrPo,n
March/April 1996 - 80 Volume 18 Number 6
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
EIGHTH MOUNTAIN PRESS for Jews, especially Jews who are open lesbians. The
A Journey of One’s Own: Uncommon Advice Tree and the Vine is an important rediscovered classic
for the Independent Woman Traveler, Second that afterword author Lillian Faderman praises for
Edition by Thalia Zepatos is the completely revised, its “complex presentation of characters whose quiet
updated, and expanded edition of our best-selling and not-so-quiet tragedies of self-deception and
travel book for women which has sold 30,000 copies self-destruction play themselves out.” Advance
since Spring 1993. (It was a QPBC selection for 1994.) reading copies and bookmarks will be available.
It continues to receive extensive attention in the femi- $9.95 pb, 1-55861-141-X; $27.50 cl, -140-1, June.
nist, travel and mainstream media and sells steadily. First published in 1978 to great critical acclaim,
By the same author as Adventures in Good Company: The Maimie Papers: From Prostitute to Social
The Complete Guide to Women’s Tours and Outdoor Trips. Worker documents the unusual correspondence of
$16.95 pb, 0-933377-36-3, June. Jewish prostitute Maimie Pinzer and Boston writer
The Eighth Mountain Press, 624 SE 29th Avenue, Fanny Howe. Maimie’s letters wittily and candidly
Portland OR 97214; 503-233-3936, fax 503-233-0774, recount her transition from a prostitute and morphine
e-mail <eightmt@aol.com>. Distributed by Consor- addict to a middle-class businesswoman and social
tium, BP, Small Press Distribution and Airlift (UK and worker in the first part of this century. $17.95 pb,
Europe). —Eighth Mountain Press 1-55861-143-6, April.
A twentieth-century classic in the Netherlands,
never before published in the United States, Memories:
My Life as an International Leader in Women’s
THE FEMINIST PRESS Health, Suffrage, and Peace by Aletta Jacobs is the
We've just capped off a very successful 25th autobiography of this remarkable woman. Jacobs was
anniversary with our first-ever co-op program. We’d the first Dutch woman to become a medical doctor and
like to thank all the women’s bookstores around the was an internationally recognized leader in the strug-
country that took part and that have supported us for gles for birth control, women’s rights, health reform,
the last quarter-century. women’s suffrage, and world peace. $18.95 pb, 1-55861-
Among the White Moon Faces: An Asian 138-X; $45 cl, -137-1, May.
American Memoir of Homelands by Shirley Carrie Chapman Catt: A Public Life by
Geok-lin Lim. This moving memoir by an award- Jacqueline Van Voris. The only available biography of
winning poet documents Lim’s coming-of-age as a the renowned leader “significantly expands Catt’s
Chinese woman in Malaysia and her life in the United reputation as an internationalist....She is portrayed as
States as an exile and, eventually, an Asian American. a...brilliant tactitian whose vision of women’s rights
Lim, a co-editor of The Forbidden Stitch, will be doing grew steadily from its American roots to incorporate
a reading or signing at the ABA, as well as a nine-city not only European women but those in the non-
author tour beginning in September. $22.95 cl, Western world.” —New York Times Book Review. An
1-55861-144-4, August. essential volume for marking the 75th anniversary of
First published in 1955 in the Netherlands, The the 19th Amendment. $13.95 pb, 1-55861-139-8.
Tree and the Vine by Dola de Jong is the gripping The Feminist Press at The City University of New
story of two women caught between personal York, 311 East 94th Street, New York NY 10128;
desires and taboos in a city — Amsterdam — just 212-360-5790. Distributed by Consortium.
being occupied by the Nazis, and hence dangerous —The Feminist Press
81 March/April 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
FIREBRAND BOOKS through all the male losers in town, and Scotia Moon,
Along the Journey River, a mystery by Carole a First Nations woman and lesbian, fall in love while
laFavor, is the first of its kind: a Native American working against the Ku Klux Klan in a small rural
lesbian mystery. I like the way it mixes the Ojibwa Canadian town. Haley & Scotia is about two women
language with English, just as the question of the finding their courage — the courage to love in a world
protagonist's lesbianism coexists with traditional con- ruled by hate, the courage to stand on their own and,
temporary Native American issues. The author is a ultimately, the courage to stand together. $7.95 pb,
Two-Spirit who writes with the gentle humor used by 0-9603628-8-6. 40% on orders of 5+, net 30 [15+10%].
Indian people for centuries as a double-edged tool for Free freight. Frog in the Well, PO Box 170052, San
learning and survival. $10.95 pb, 1-56341-070-2; Francisco CA 94117. Distributed by Alamo Square.
$22.95 cl, -071-0. —Frog in the Well
Breathless, erotica by Kitty Tsui, is a handsome
book by a handsome woman with varieties of sex that
w wi hl ol d te hl eig h yt o, u i n isf .u r Li ea st be ia o nr s e ax llc . i t $e 9 .9y 5o u p b— , 1d -e 5p 6e 3n 4d 1i -n 0g 7 2 -o 9n ; GYNERGY BOOKS/RAGWEED PRESS
$20.95 cl, -073-7. Across Borders: Women With Disabilities
Firebrand Books, 141 The Commons, Ithaca NY Working Together edited by Diane Driedger, Irene
14850; 607-272-0000. Distributed by Login/InBook Feika, and Eileen Giron Batres. Feminism and sister-
and all leading wholesalers. —Firebrand Books hood are global. The women with disabilities
movement is at the forefront of partnership and
FROG IN THE WELL cooperation internationally. Across Borders reflects
In Haley & Scotia by Deb Ellis, Haley Harper, a this by portraying women with disabilities from the
white reporter who has been steadily working First and Third World working together to improve
Rough Justice Emerald City Blues
Claire Youmans Jean Stewart a
When the comfortable, yuppie world of Chris Olson
and Jennifer Hart collides with the desperate lives of Reb
and Flynn, two lesbian runaways struggling to survive
on the streets of Seattle, the result is unexpected and
wonderful. In this departure from her bestselling Isis
series, Jean Stewart has written a warmhearted, gritty,
enormously readable novel of contemporary lesbigay
life—about the families we create and the walls we erect
around our hearts. Finally, Emerald City Blues is a cel-
well-plotted mystery is a real page-turner. ebration of the healing powers of love.
ISBN 1-883061-10-5; $10.99; Avail. 4/96 ISBN 1-883061-09-1; $11.99; Avail. 4/96
RISING
82
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
living conditions through literacy and economic them). The information ranges from why menstrual
development projects. Politiċal activism and per- sponges are better than tampons, through yogurt-
sonal stories, including snapshots from Beijing, for-yeast-infections and ways to bring on a late
provide an intriguing balance and compelling read- period. Hetero- and lesbian-inclusive. Every teen-
ing. $14.95, 0-921881-38-X, May. aged girl in North America should have one. The
Skinny Dipping by Marian Frances White. 53-page booklet retails for $C3. Bulk terms aren’t set.
Sensual, humourous and right-on poetry about one Write with the number yowu’d like to order. Hot
woman's life — her sexuality and her struggle to be PCantas, n C.aP. d 87a1 ; S u cc5. 1C, 4 M-on2tr7éal7 Q-U2E 7H24L 94L.6 , —CS
true to herself. Marian Frances White crosses gender
barriers and explores life beyond its usual boundaries
of sexuality and love, compelling the reader to jour-
ney along a path of unexpected insights. Poetic
maturity and a unique voice make this book of poetry KELSEY ST. PRESS
so enjoyable. $10.95 pb, 0-921881-39-8, April. The Woman Without Experiences, a new prose
Nanny-Mac’s Cat by Anne Louise MacDonald, work by poet Patricia Dienstfrey, takes the reader
illustrated by Marie Lafrance, is a unique book that through a series of moments in a woman's life —
addresses the issue of an aging grandparent in an some mundane, some cataclysmic. The starting point
authentic voice. Similar to Real Sisters, it speaks in an of the narrative is a woman at home with young
accessible fashion about a relevant issue in children’s children. Her dislocation (from the urban world of
lives and helps them learn to deal positively with work, from her education, from her own mother,
change and the fears that are often associated with from her adult self) is transformed, however, from
change. This book charms the reader through its beau- feelings of loss to a recognition of possibility; empti-
tiful illustrations and its direct, clear language. Full ness and absence prepare an opening for
colour illustration. $5.95, 0-921556-54-3, April. self-knowledge. These events reverberate like notes
Visit “Small Media and Large” on WWW to view struck and heard long after the sound ceases. A
our catalogue http://smallmedia.com. gynergy co-founder of Kelsey St. Press, Patricia Dienstfrey
books/Ragweed Press, PO Box 2023, Charlottetown worked as a letterpress printer, typesetter and book-
PEI C1A 7N7, Canada. Distributed in the U.S. by seller after leaving a career as a city planner. $12 pb,
Login/InBook andin Canada by General Distribution 0-932716-37-7. Kelsey St. Press, 2718 Ninth Street,
Services. —gynergy books/Ragweed Press Berkeley CA 94710; 510-845-2260. Distributed by
HOT PANTS Small Press Distribution and BP. —Kelsey St. Press
Hot Pants: Do It Yourself Gynecology/Herbal NAIAD PRESS
Remedies, written by Isabelle Gauthier and Lisa Your mystery fans will flip over Melanie
Vinebaum and produced by a collective of brilliant McAllester’s action-packed The Search, featuring
women, is a tall, slim Our Bodies, Ourselves for the pumped-up policewoman Elizabeth “Tenny”
current generation. It starts out, “Patriarchy sucks,” Mendoza and rookie cop Ashley Johnson. Tenny
and proceeds with philosophy, politics, and all the faces the most heart-wrenching and dangerous case
basic information about women’s anatomy, repro- of her career as she races to find her ex-lover’s
ductive health, safe sex, STDs, bladder infections, abducted child before a hired killer does. $10.95 pb,
vaginitis and yeast infections (and what to do about 1-56280-150-3, April.
83 March/April 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
The Wish List by talented newcomer Saxon
SPRING 1996 Bennett is sure to make your store’s list of best-selling
romances. For 22 years Maggie has kept her true feel-
Not Sọ Much ings for Celia a secret — even from herself. Newly
widowed, she is finally free to acknowledge the
the Fall H unspoken wishes of her heart. But will Maggie and
Sometimes hilarious, Celia have the courage to finish what never got started?
sometimes horrifying, (Survey says...) $10.95 pb, 1-56280-125-2, April.
consistently capti- Julia Watt's Wildwood Flowers is a hilarious,
vating. An intelligent heartwarming tale of lesbian culture shock and the
and fresh first novel. resiliency of true love. Bev and Andie have just
"Takes readers on a m erov ne d t f or wom n B wos hto en r’s e l e Asb nia dn i eg h e wtt io l l t o b ea s tm ea all c hS io nut gh - at a
road as winding as Christian-affiliated college. Before the women have a
any Kerouac ever chance to unpack, a nosy neighbor is at the door with
explored, seasoned a housewarming cake and a list of all the eligible
with dyke bachelors in town — beginning with the town morti-
perspective. " cian. $10.95 pb, 1-56280-127-9, May.
—Nisa Donnelly Your romance readers will say “Yes, Yes, Yes!” to
"Not So Much the 1-879427-24-9 $12.95 Linda Hill’s enthralling Never Say Never. Computer
Fall kept me reading." a novel by Kerry Hart analyst Leslie Howard knows all too well that the
—Lee Lynch quickest way to a broken heart is to ignore Lesbian
Dating Rule Number One: Never, ever, get involved
with a straight woman. But, despite her better judg-
Coming Full ment and serious warnings from her friends, she finds
t RC h ei e lr a tc R iol he ny: s t h h iH pm so s n oo fring h s 1t -e r 5r a 6s i 2e gl 8hf 0 t - 1b 2—a 6t -t 0l ai ,n n g d M aa v y e .rg yr o w ati tn rg a c tin ivf ea t u —a t i co on w ow ri kt eh r . a $ 1v 0e .r 9y 5 pb,
A guide to healthy
relationships, with the
moon as metaphor. Annette Van Dyke's Hooded Murder is the debut
a" nP de r c inep tuti iv tie v ei n es mig ph at thy n Wamo ov a me tl e e u ni r ’n s sa Sln e tu u t de h ix e c s i J t e Din s is rg i ee c n tB oe raw t t aem tll ey a.s t Ae sr msy a t l lhs e e Mr ie n ids e ww i eln syt t r e ro a npd pu oc ci i on n lg t -ed
. . . a deep under- lege, Jessie looks forward to living and working in a
standing of the cycles supportive, women-centered environment. Instead,
of relationships. Now she winds up tracking — and being tracked by — a
we can all receive the 1-879427-25-7 $15.95 ruthless killer who is targeting lesbian faculty mem-
gifts of her wisdom." a guide by Nancy VanArsdall bers. $10.95 pb, 1-56280-134-1, May.
We also have a range of good quality “hurts”
available. Many of these books could be sold as new
or at $2 or $3 off per book. Hurts are available in
R 2250 W. Farragut, Chicago, IL 60625 multiples of 25, assorted titles. (You can’t pick the
“A 312-271-3029 (v); 312-271-0459 (f) titles, but we promise not more than 2 or 3 of any
CDistOribuNted S toO thRe tTradIe U byM one title per batch. For example, if you order 50
1-800-283-3572 books, you'll probably get 42 different titles.) $2 per
book + postage.
March/April 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
NAIAD VIDEO In 1966, 19-year-old Candice Bergen debuted in
Northern Arts Entertainment and the Naiad the all-woman movie, The Group (based on Mary
Press have acquired the North American distribution McCarthy's prize-winning book, The Group), about
rights to Costa Brava (Family Album), a 92-minute college chums at Vassar and the Sturm und Drang in
feature film shot in 35mm in Barcelona, Spain in their lives. Candice Bergen, as Lakey, the lesbian, is
English, starring Marta Balletbo-Coll, Desi del Valle, stunning. $19.95, 150 minutes.
and Montserrat Gausachs. Naiad Press will release The disturbing Australian art-house film, Only
the film on video following its theatrical release by the Brave, brings coming-of-age for young women to
Northern Arts in the U.S. Costa Brava (Family the same low threshold that such films have managed
Album) won the 1995 Los Angeles Gay and Lesbian for young males. It’s lesbian, it’s explosive, it’s very
Film Festival Audience Award for Best Picture, and good, and very unsettling. $59.95, 62 minutes.
the 1995 San Francisco Lesbian and Gay Film Festival David Lynch's black-and-white and eerie lesbian
Audience Award for Best Lesbian Picture. vampire film, Nadja, will do well, particularly as a
rental market entree. $89.95, 92 minutes.
Delightful writer Mary Meigs, a lesbian with
many ties to the lesbian literary community, is also
On the video front, we have acquired world-wide a fine actress and one of the marvelous women
video rights to Marilyn Freeman’s film Meeting gracing the cast of the too-little-known Canadian
Magdalene, an enchanting story about a riveting film, Strangers in Good Company, a classic closed-
attraction between two strangers, which debuted at universe film wherein a dozen women, stranded
the prestigious Sundance Film Festival in January and when their bus breaks down, form and reform rela-
will be in most of the lesbian and gay [male] film tionships while they wait to be rescued. Meigs plays,
festivals in the U.S. and Canada during 1996. We'll hilariously, a lesbian writer. $19.95, 100 minutes.
release Meeting Magdalene in video format in the (The book was published by Talon.)
Fall of 1996. Meeting Magdalene is rich with eccentric The four classic Monika Treut art house films,
characters, wonderful performances, great lines, Female Misbehavior (80 minutes), Seduction: The
engaging tension, and a seductive edge of humor. Cruel Woman (84 minutes), My Father is Coming (84
Meeting Magdalene is another in the films acquired minutes), and her famous Virgin Machine (91 min-
by Naiad Press as part of the alliance between North- utes) are all newly available from Naiad Press at
ern Arts/Naiad Press. 34 minutes. $24.95 retail,
normal discounts apply. Street date is July 23. Order
by July 2 to get by the 23rd.
Jane Rule’s marvelous collection of short fiction,
Inland Passage, has been republished with a new cover. Naiad has also begun carrying Desire: An Erotic
($10.95, 0-930044-56-8.) At the same time Naiad Press Fantasy Play. Silly plot (did we say plot?) about three
begins distributing Fiction and Other Truths: A Film women with too much time on their hands...will rent
About Jane Rule, done by the hot Canadian team of very well. $49.95, 79 minutes.
young filmmakers, Lynn Fernie and Aerlyn Weissman, Naiad will be offering all eleven X-rated films
who will be known to your customers as the creators of from Fatale Video. These are either 60-minute or
last year’sbig-selling Forbidden Love (also available from 30-minute films, priced in the $39.95, $34.95, and
Naiad Press). ($59.95, 57 minutes.) $29.95 range. Call 800-533-1973 for titles and lurid
85 March/April 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
details. These rent well where they are carried at all.
PRESS GANG PUBLISHERS Yes, we know they have no redeeming social value
S P R I N G I 9 9 6 whatsoever.
Lastly, Naiad Press will be issuing a lot of video
product in its new line, Northern Arts /Naiad Press.
I AM WOMAN With NA/NP our goal is to distribute lesbian films
in the theatrical market where it is possible to do so
A Native Perspective and then go to video after that...or, in the case of
shorter work, such as Meeting Magdalene where there
on Sociology and is no theatrical audience available, to go direct to
Feminism video. We expect to have at least four to six films in
1996. Devotion, released in January, was the first in
by Lee Maracle the line.
50% discount. Naiad Press, PO Box 10543, Talla-
hassee FL 32302; 904-539-5965, fax 904-539-9731.
Maracle draws on Distributed by IN, BP, et al. —Naiad Press
law, politics, philos- SVZ
ophy, sociology and
NEW VICTORIA PUBLISHERS
poetry to share her vision of emancipation.
We're publishing three books this Spring. We
ISBN 0-88974-059-3 $14.95US/$16.95CND were a bit nervous and unsure of the future back in
the early Fall when we made the decision to cut back
from our normal three to four books, although now
everything seems to be working out fine.
HONOUR Tales From the Dyke Side by Jorjet Harper. We
A` Novel like to bring a little humor into lesbians’ lives, particu-
larly with the prospect of listening to pontificators
Ann Deécter from the reactionary right for the next eight months.
by Ann Decter Jorjet’s hilarious, offbeat imagination tackles such
topics as the secret lesbian life of the Loch Ness
The sequel to Paper, Monster, and the uncanny link between goddess
statuary and small electrical appliances. A great pro-
Scissors, Rock is an moter of her books, Jorjet has a Lesbomania slideshow
inspirational novel with photos, charts and diagrams proving her theses.
: : $9.95 pb, 0-934678-71-5, June.
about relationships I Change, I Change, poems by Barbara Deming,
between women— edited and with a foreword by Judith McDaniel.
When Vida Deming, Barbara’s sister-in-law, came
lesbian lovers, old friends, mothers and over to our house with a collection of poems put
daughters. together by Barbara shortly before she died, we
instantly agreed to publish them. Barbara Deming,
ISBN 0-88974-057-7 $14.95US/$16.95CND 1917-1984, was one of the most dearly loved political
activists and essayists of our time, marching to end
A , segregation in the 50s, coming out as a lesbian in the
Distributed by InBook in the US, 70s. These poems are less political, but show the over-
by General in Canada whelming importance of love in her life. Judith
McDaniel has written an informative introduction.
March/April 1996 86 Volume 18 Number 6
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
We are hoping this book will help rekindle the mem- each page and speak to the heart. A four-color cover will
ory of this remarkable woman. $12.95 cl, invite the journal writer like a tasty appetizer entices the
0-934678-72-3, May. hungry diner. $12.95 pb, 0-918949-88-2, May.
Windswept by Magdalena Zschokke. This beau- In Washing the Stones: Selected Poems 1975-
tiful novel depicts the adventures of three women on 1995, Maude Meehan’s wise and tender poems
the high seas. Although they love the sea, they each chronicle her 75-year journey as political activist,
struggle to make a life in a predominantly male world wife, mother and, now, widow. Many will feel a sense
and to overcome their loneliness. It is their letters, of recognition in her rich experiences as she paints a
dreams and connection to the stars that keep them world of politics and love with her husband of 57
going, moving towards the goal of an all-female crew. years. Ms. Meehan’s unique visions reveal universal
We liked this book because we like tales of women bonds of passion and betrayal, pleasure and pain, love
facing both physical and emotional challenges. It is a and loss — a life fully lived and yet offering so much
well-written novel by the winner of the Astraea more. $13 pb, 0-918949-85-8.
Fiction Writers Award and an accomplished sea cap- Time for Love: Assisted Living Viewed by
tain herself. $10.95 pb, 0-934678-73-1, May. One of the Very Old by Janet Carncross Chandler,
New Victoria Publishers, PO Box 27, Norwich VT an 85-year-old noted poet and retired social worker,
05055; 802-649-5297. New Victoria books are all avail- provides a rare insider’s perspective on living in a
able through InBook using the same toll-free number long-term care facility. Describing her transition of
800-243-0138 or fax 800-334-3892. Starting in February living independently to living with assistance and
they will be shipping from Chicago. You can also get encountering a new love life, her poetic reflections
our books through most any wholesaler: Ingram, resonate with elegance and insight. As a widow, she
B&T, BP, Stilone/Bulldog (Australia) and Airlift (UK writes of the wonders of falling in love after 80. This
and Europe). —New Victoria Publishers book is a warm gift of memories and the promise of
continued life and love during later years. With a
foreword by well-known gerontologist Joanne
Smallen. $9 pb, 0-918949-91-2.
PAPIER-MACHE PRESS Papier-Mache Press, 135 Aviation Way #14,
Unspoken Visions: An Inner Journey by Watsonville CA 95076; 408-763-1420, fax 408-763-
Kikanza Nuri Robins is more than a blank book; this 1421. Distributed by Login/InBook, Koen /Inland, BP,
inspiring journal includes affirmations for new and B&T, Ingram and Pacific Pipeline.
experienced journalers. These gentle reflections —Papier-Mache Press
encourage writers to discover their most authentic
self as they record dreams, reflections and medita-
tions. The introduction describes the many uses of
journals and suggests ways to use this beautiful PRESS GANG PUBLISHERS
book. The affirmations are designed to help the jour- I Am Woman: A Native Perspective on Sociol-
naler build self-esteem, clarify boundaries, reinforce ogy and Feminism by Lee Maracle was an instant
spiritual values, build healthy relationships, estab- success When it was first released at the Interna-
lish personal priorities and goals, and state her tional Feminist Bookfair in Montreal (1988).
values. This journal becomes a book of very personal Published by Write-On Press in Canada, it was never
meditations. Beautiful graphics and affirmations fill available in the U.S. and has been out-of-print for
Volume 18 Number 6 87 March/April 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
many years. This important early work by Lee uted in the U.S. by Login/InBook, in Canada by
Maracle is getting a second life in a revised edition, General. — Press Gang Publishers
with beautiful cover artwork by Vancouver Island
Native artist Francis Dick. Blending story-telling RISING TIDE PRESS
and perceptive analysis of both Native and white Is murder ever justified? In Rough Justice,
cultures, this is a milestone book by a highly respected Claire Youmains an attorney and sailing aficionado-
Native orator. Four-color posters are forthcoming. turned-writer, poses this intriguing question in her
$14.95 pb, 0-88974-059-3, May. well-crafted debut mystery novel. Janet Schilling, a
classy Assistant D.A., jumps at the chance to inves-
tigate the mysterious disappearance of Glen Lowry
four years earlier, and in the course of doing so,
Honour by Ann Decter is an inspirational novel learns that several townspeople, including her own
about three contemporary women who are long- lover Catherine Adams, had ample motive. A real
time friends and sometime lovers. All in their 30s, page-turner, full of the danger and magic of the sea,
they are at turning points in their lives and in their and a cast of memorable characters. $10.99 pb,
relationships with their mothers. Jane Cammen, the 1883061-10-5, April.
protagonist in Decter’s first novel, Paper, Scissors, Emerald City Blues by Jean Stewart, previously
Rock, is researching her mother’s life some years reviewed in issue 18 #3 and announced for November,
after her death. Interwoven in this compelling story has been re-scheduled for April.
are accounts of feminist foremothers — women of Rising Tide Press, 5 Kivy Street, Huntington
the 50s and 60s who laid the groundwork for the Station NY 11746; 516-427-1289. Distributed by Login /
current women’s movement. As in her first book, InBook, Alamo Square, BP, B&T and Bookazine.
Decter’s particular strength is combining current —Rising Tide Press
issues with historical and political perspectives.
Shelve this as lesbian fiction, Jewish fiction and
women’s studies — it’s sure to appeal to a broad
cross-section of readers. $14.95 pb, 0-88974-057-7, SCARLET PRESS
April. Why do women smoke more than men and why
Press Gang Publishers, #101-225 East 17th is smoking among young women on the increase? We
Avenue, Vancouver BC V5V 1A6, Canada. Distrib- are delighted to publish this new analysis of women
Sarah Aldridge’s new novel The Latecomer, Tottie, Cytherea’s Breath, All
True Lovers, The Nesting Place, Madame
Amantha Aurora, Misfortune’s Friend, Magdalena,
Keep To Me Stranger, a An d F li gMht i cohf a Aenlgae.ls,
The story of two women caught in the web of the opulent Available only from
society of Baltimore, Paris and London of the 1880’s and
90's.
Critics have said of Sarah Aldridge’s earlier novels:
“Romantic and highly enjoyable”; “a significant contribution
that will stand the test of time and the marketplace”; “a
portrayal of lesbian love that leads to a development of
character that goes beyond the classics of lesbian
literature”; “draws back the curtain and allows a glimpse of
life in which every reader will see herself”.
88 Volume 18 Number 6
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
and smoking in Smoke Screen: Women’s Smoking familial love, loyalty and deception. $21.95 cl,
and Social Control by Lorraine Greaves. Using 1-878067-72-9.
historical and social analysis, Smoke Screen presents The Last of Her Lies: A Maggie Garrett Mystery
a fascinating account of why women are addicted to by Jean Taylor. The second in a series featuring street-
tobacco. It looks at the ways in which tobacco affects smart lesbian P.I. Maggie Garrett (We Know Where You
women, the social uses of smoking, and the tobacco Live). When Kelly Henry disappears and leaves be-
industry's keen interest in the female market. $14.95 hind a diary that accuses her therapist of sexual abuse,
pb, 185727-0584. Maggie Garrett is called in to find the missing woman
Our seventh book in the popular Lesbians Talk and discover who is telling the truth. $10.95 pb,
series is on the family. The family remains in the
closet. Like society, the nuclear family is patriarchal,
heterosexual, exclusive and homophobic. With a 1-878067-75-3. VA
range of lesbian voices, from lesbian mothers to
activists on the family debate, Lesbians Talk: Solo: Women Going It Alone in the Outdoors
Detonating the Nuclear Family by Julia Brosnan edited by Susan Fox Rogers. In this collection, 23
deconstructs the traditional family and offers posi- women share their solo travel experiences — adyen-
tive insight into new patterns of relating, parenting tures that range from roadtripping through the
and caring. $8.95 pb, 185727-0282. Northwestern U.S. to biking the Iditarod trail in
Fighting Spirit: The Stories of Women in the Alaska. From the editor of Another Wilderness and
Bristol Breast Cancer Survey edited by Heather Sportsdykes, Solo features all original writing for the
Goodare describes the scandal that erupted in the woman traveler. $12.95 pb, 1-878067-74-5.
U.K. medical establishment in 1990 when the interim Wired Women: Gender and New Realities in
findings of the breast cancer study were prematurely Cyberspace edited by Lynn Cherny and Elizabeth
published in The Lancet. Here, for the first time, the Reba Weise is a provocative and impassioned look at
women involved in the survey speak directly about what women are doing on the Net. Wired Women
their experiences and the impact that the publication consists of 15 essays written by women deeply rooted
and resulting media attention had on their lives. in Net culture, from Wired Magazine’s Paulina
$15.95 pb, 185727-0339, June. Borsook, who exposes gender attitudes at the
Scarlet Press, 5 Montague Road, London E8 2HN, digerati’s magazine of record, to writer Ellen UIl-
England; 0171-241-3702, fax 0171-275-0031. Distrib- man’s experience of courtship via e-mail. $16 pb,
uted by Login /InBook. — Scarlet Press 1-878067-73-7.
Nervous Conditions by Tsitsi Dangaremba. With
over 40,000 copies sold to date, this poignant coming-
of-age novel by one of Africa's most talented writers
: is being reissued. Set in colonial Rhodesia during the
Set in a rapidly changing Vermont farming town, 1960s, Nervous Conditions explores the devastating
Nowle’s Passing by Edith Forbes masterfully por- human loss involved in the colonialization of one
trays the culture of a region and the stoic and subtle culture by another and the struggle of two young
beauty of its people. From the author of Alma Rose, women to liberate themselves in a rapidly changing
Nowle’s Passing is a beautifully crafted novel about society. $12 pb, 1-878067-77-X.
a woman's awakening and an intriguing story of SurferGrrrls: Look Ethel! An Internet Guide for
89 March/April 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
“Spring titles from : Us! by Laurel Gilbert and Crystal Kile. Calling all
NEW VICTORIA = cyberchicks, wired women, and girl geek wannabees
as well as any woman ready to merge onto the infor-
Ihagee flante mation superhighway. SurferGrrrls is the perfect
companion for your trip, taking readers step-by-step
Poems by Barbara Deming through the process of getting online and showing
Edited by Judith McDaniel them how to make the most of it once they're there.
Compiled by Barbara shortly before Features a complete listing of cool Web sites and right-
her death, this volume of previously on resources. $12 pb, 1-878067-77-X.
unpublished poems provides fresh insight into New Beginnings: A Creative Writing Guide
the personal passions and importance of love in for Women Who Have Left Abusive Relationships
the life of one of our most respected social by Sharon Doane. With hundreds of thousands of
women leaving abusive relationships every year,
justice activists. With an informative introduction this life-changing book provides a framework for
by Judit h I S M Bc ND an 0ie -l. 934678-72-3 $12.95 cloth dealing with the aftermath of an abusive relation-
v ship as well as concrete steps that help women
discover their own creativity and strength. $10.95
TALES FROM THE DYKE SIDE pb, 1-878067-78-8.
The Seal Press, 3131 Western Avenue #410, Seattle
by Jorjet Harper WA 98121; 206-283-7844. Distributed by PGW.
The author of Lesħomania is back! More hilarious
and thought-provoking columns highlighting the EZ %
lesbian cultural panorama. Among the objects of
h Mer o n g sa tze e: r ;T h e C as mecr ie lt e le Psb ai gan li a l :i f e “ Aof t t t ah ce k L o oc fh N te hss e 50ft SECOND STORY PRESS
Lesboid”; the similarity between common house- The Women’s Daybook 1997, featuring photo-
hold appliances and goddess statuary; and the graphs by women, is a utilitarian organizer but
latest research on gay fruitflies and lesbian lizards. with style and panache and is the only datebook
ISBN 0-934678-71-5 $10.95 paper that’s specifically geared to the needs of the work-
e, ing woman. Great price point for elegant package.
A proven winner. Why has the Women’s Daybook
WINOSWEPT become so popular? It’s the only large format
women’s desk calendar, it has hour-by-hour weekly
A be b ay u t M ifa ugd l al e nn oa v Z es lc h o ok fk e women’s sailing s tp ir oe nad s a t nh dat aar de d rid ee sa sl f so pr a b cu es y m w ao km ee n , d aex tt er ba o ono kt a - highly
adventures on the high seas from an usable, themes explore the varied and rich lives of
Astraea Lesbian Fund Emerging Fiction women, original contemporary photographs make
1 Writer's Award winner. Mara, Zöe and this a striking book, it’s an up-market desk calendar
Olivia all seek the independence of sail- at a very reasonable price, working women say the
ing yet yearn for women’s community and com- Daybook combines practicality with beauty, and
passion in a world dominated by rich and power- it’s a hugely successful. gift item. $12.95 pb,
ful men. Each also brings a personal quest to their 0-929005-81-3, July.
voyages, as I t Sh Be N t h r 0e -e 9 3sa 4il 6 7b 8ot -h 7 3 t -o 1g e t $h 1er 0 . 9an 5d pap aa prt e. r matte rA , Pch opil pd yr 'e sn ’s W hb ao lo ek b d ye a l Min ag r ie w -Fi rt ah n cs ie nr ei o u Hs e b s eu rb tject
leaves the reader smiling and hopeful. Latest book in
ORDER FROM INBOOK a series which has sold 500,000 copies worldwide.
Such a popular book club selection that her last book
phone 800-243-0138 fax 800-334-3892 sold 14,000 copies in one month. Poppy, the zany
90
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
character from A Monster in My Cereal, A Ghost in My author Barbara Nickel takes known historical details
Mirror and Witch's Brew, is inconsolable. For the first to tell the story of a young girl whose talent, despite
time in her life our adventuresome character is facing the the restrictions of the time, manages to blossom
a great sadness. Her grandpa has died, and she can’t and flourish. $6.95 pb, 0-929005-89-9, May.
stop crying. With her family, she finds herself at the Second Story Press, 720 Bathurst Street #301,
seaside in her grandfather’s house, in the bed which Toronto ON MS5 2R4, Canada; 416-537-7850. Dis-
he built for her in the shape of a boat. She is so upset tributed by BP and Login/InBook.
and her torrent of tears becomes so great that it carries —Second Story Press
her away, right out to sea, and into the belly of a
whale! What should Poppy do? Should she just give
up and stay there? Or should she remember how
much she and her grandfather enjoyed life, playing, SPINSTERS INK
discovering and going on adventures? Readers under Goodness follows the lives of a group of femi-
eleven will appreciate seeing what our heroine nist activists during 30 years of the most cataclysmic
decides, how she gets herself out of trouble while social and political changes in American history,
learning an important lesson about life. $5.95 pb, from the Vietnam War through the Reagan Revolu-
0-929005-90-2, April. tion. The evolving relationships between friends
and lovers, women and women, women and men,
and mothers and children form the nucleus of this
story, as the group weathers everything from love
The Secret Wish of Nannerl Mozart by affairs, peace marches, drug trips, feminist con-
Barbara Kathleen Nickel. Mozart's sister was a gen- sciousness-raising sessions, civil disobedience,
ius, too. Combining fact, biography and fiction, this arrest and imprisonment, to the inevitabilities of
is a “could have happened” novel about the dreams aging, illness, and death. Goodness is a must-read
of a girl who always remained in her brother's for anyone who participated in the idealistic turbu-
shadow. Nannerl is in some ways very typical of lence of the 60s — or wishes they had. This is the first
girls growing up in 1763 Europe. She experiences novel by Martha Roth, co-editor of the award-win-
the passionate ups-and-downs of all twelve-year- ning Mother Journeys: Feminists Write About
olds, showing greed and delight over a special Mothering (Spinsters Ink, 1994) and Transforming a
birthday cake, intense friendship for her very best Rape Culture (Milkweed Editions, 1993). $10.95 pb,
friend, and a strong mixture of jealousy, irritation 1-883523-11-7.
and love for her spoiled younger brother, who Shelly Roberts, widely-read lesbian humor col-
seems constantly to ruin all Nannerl’s best plans umnist and author of The Dyke Detector and Hey Mom,
and dreams. But Nannerl is not an ordinary twelve- Guess What! has now compiled the definitive guide to
year-old; she is Maria Anna Mozart, a musical lesbian life. Roberts’ Rules of Lesbian Living, a
genius, and her mischievous and talented seven- handy little lesbian life-instruction book, is filled with
year-old brother is none other than Wolfgang fabulous lesbian truisms that run the gamut from “I
Amadeus Mozart. Nannerl and Wolfgang per- love you’ is not a question” to “After one year, all
formed together in concerts across Europe, where lesbian couples will be wearing at least one matching
they were both recognized as child prodigies. In item” to “In a lesbian household, tasks are assigned
this wonderful novel for readers twelve and under, according to whomever does them the least badly.”
91 March/April 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
This book examines and pokes fun at most of the examines how the cycles of individuals play into and
issues plaguing lesbians: parents, kids, dating, split- intertwine with the cycles of relationships. Primary
ting, pets, stereotypes, food, style, sex, therapy, focus is on couples relationships, both heterosexual
activism, coupledom and community. Roberts’ Rules and lesbian, from a woman’s point of view, with the
will cause you to smile, to nod, to chuckle, to guffaw, author noting that “It is my contention that women do
to scowl. It is the perfect gift for the lesbian(s) in your relationships.” $14.95 pb, 1-879427-25-7, June; $31.95
life. $5.95, pb, 1-883523-09-5. c], -26-5, July.
: Spinsters Ink, 32 East First Street #330, Duluth 42% on 5-24; 43% on 25-99; 44% on 100+. Third
MN 55802; 218-727-3222; <spinsters@a01.com>; Side Press, 2250 West Farragut, Chicago IL 60625;
<http://www.lesbian.org/spinsters-ink/>. Distrib- 312-271-3029, fax 312-271-0459, e-mail <102171.771
uted by Login/InBook. —Spinsters Ink @compuserve.com>. Our titles are available from all
major wholesalers, but much more of the money
SYBYLLA comes back to us if you buy from Consortium. Titles
She’s Fantastical: The First Collection of from all Consortium publishers combine for discount.
Australian Women’s Speculative Fiction, Magical —Third Side Press
Realism and Fantasy edited by Lucy Sussex and
Judith Raphael Buckrich, with a foreword by Ursula
LeGuin. Never before has such an anthology been
produced in Australia. In a genre traditionally mas- WOLFE VIDEO
culine, the writing in this book explodes the Adapted from the award-winning off-Broadway
definition of the literary fantastic by appropriating, play, Jeffrey is a “when Harry met Harry” romantic
challenging, and subverting its themes and con- comedy that explores the issues of love, sex and AIDS
cerns. Through pairings, interweavings, and in the 1990s from the viewpoint of a single gay man.
transformations, She’s Fantastical’s contributors Including a must-see cast of Patrick Stewart, Steven
disrupt masculine boundaries and work towards Weber and great cameos by Sigourney Weaver, Kathy
developing a women’s mode within the speculative Najimy and many more. $96.98.
genre. $22.95 pb, 0-908205-12-0. Sybylla Feminist In Siren, Ella is captivated by Jodie, a writer of
Press, Ross House, 247-251 Flinders Lane, Mel- erotic fiction. Sent to her majestic country estate, Ella
bourne Victoria, Australia 3000; 613-9650-2217, fax is titillated by what she sees there. Siren is an erotic
613-9650-4175. —Sybylla fantasy drama made by women for women, featur-
ing exquisite imagery with a haunting soundtrack.
Sensual, playful, mysterious and tastefully erotic.
SRP: $29.95.
THIRD SIDE PRESS Incidents of gay bashing are increasing every
Not So Much the Fall by Kerry Hart, an impor- year. The Best Defense (Vol.1) is filled with basic,
tant first novel, is not so much about driving from effective techniques taught by nine of the world’s best
Memphis to Portland — and back again nine years lesbian and gay self-defense instructors. Be powerful,
later, it’s more about completely changing your life be smart — protect yourself, then share it with those
when your mother dies. It’s not so much about you love. SRP: $29.95.
climbing your first mountain, or getting romanti- In When Night is Falling, Camille, a subtle
cally involved with a former therapy client, or beauty masked as a Catholic professor, is forever
breaking up with your lover. It’s not so much the fall changed when she finds herself drawn to Petra, a
— it’s the sudden stop. $12.95 pb, 1-879427-24-9, dramatic performer. Patricia Rozema (I've Heard the
May. Mermaids Singing) delivers this Canadian feature with
Coming Full Circle: Honoring the Rhythms of unbridled passion and sensitivity. SRP: $89.95.
Relationships by Nancy VanArsdall is personal, Wolfe Video, PO Box 64, New Almaden CA 95042;
political, practical and spiritual. VanArsdall (coordi- 408-268-6782, e-mail <wolfevid@megamed.com>.
nator of the NWMF Spirituality Conference) —Wolfe Video O
March/April 1996 92
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFROM TH
By Jenn Tust literary critics and sociologists raise questions about the
creative process, the definition of genius, cultural and
Twenty women of different ages, races and back- social categorizations of “women” and the dearth of
grounds talk about their lives and lifestyles as evidence in their quests to pursue role(s) of creative
lesbians, focusing on their identity in terms of politics, women. In part two, “On Women in the Arts,” the
leisure pursuits, fashion and affiliations in What Is essayists reflect on being creative and female in the 20th
She Like? Lesbian Identities From the 1950s to the century. Each of these writers “challenged society to live
1990s by Rosa Ainley. Filled with interviews and text, on the edge of cultural boundaries and to forge a sense
this book also examines bizarre popular notions of of the aesthetic self driven by the passion to create.”
lesbianism, from man-hating inversion to physiologi- Essays by bell hooks, Audre Lorde, Georgia O'Keefe,
cal disease, and focuses on the diverse and often Monique Wittig and Ursula K. Le Guin are included.
contradictory ways in which lesbians identify them- $18.95 pb, 0-8264-0831-1.
selves. $16.95 pb, 0-304-32900-2. Cassell, 215 Park Continuum Books, 370 Lexington Avenue, New
Avenue South, 11th Floor, New York NY 10003; 212- York NY 10017; 212-953-5858. Distributed by BP.
598-5717. Distributed by Login /InBook.
Street Smarts by African American poet devorah
In Through the Goddess: A Woman’s Way of major (An Open Weave, Seal Press) explores the hard-
Healing, Patricia Reis draws on her background in ship of life in the streets, the damage that is done there
depth psychology, art and archaeol- FPES
Ogy, giving a feminist reading to the
meaning of the Goddess. Reis uses
personal experience, women’s crea-
tive productions and experiences of
women she’s guided in her practice
of therapeia to show that the international
in-dwelling Goddess is a needed to, Community are
resource for women’s physical,
p $1sy 5.c 9h 5o lo pg bi ,c a 0l - 8a 2n 6d 4 - 0sp 85ir 6i -t 7u .al healing. b yd s:e ei ngs d aye r sh e r’b aynd prrotaedctt tihcee of
The contributors to Women, k U ns uiwtablee -feceda nreas tf eledoinng $
Creativity, and the Arts: Critical Ini
and Autobiographical Perspectives
voice critical questions about cul- nd that these deaths : eac yearin
t u ser xa ul a lp ite yrc e ap nt dio n cs r e o atf i v w ito ym . e In n, pg ae rn td e or n, e ,i l m m Ah D a kris .m Ga i em 1l y m u Dit. r a aWd ile lamr ..” the19805%
“On Women and Creativity,” psy-
chologists, art critics, art historians, (Bergin & Garvey)
March/April 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
and strategies for survival. $10.95 pb, 1-880684-27-6,
April. Curbstone Press, 321 Jackson Street, Williman-
SEASON of the WITCH tic CT 06226. Distributed by Consortium.
BORDER LINES, MARGINAI, NOTES
Sexual Coercion and Reproductive Health: A
By Gail B. Griffin Focus on Research by Lori Heise, Kirsten Moore and
Nahid Toubia provides recommendations to those
in the family planning/reproductive health field
who desire to conduct research or implement pro-
grams to address sexual violence and its impact on
women’s health. The report draws a great deal from
a two-day jointly organized meeting by the Ebert
Program in Reproductive Health of the Population
Council and the Health and Development Policy
Project. The chapters look at the connection between
coercion and reproductive health, sexual aggression
among men, research issues and methodology. $10
pb, no ISBN.
You may also want to look at Learning About
Sexuality: A Practical Beginning by Sondra Zeiden-
tA he stein and Kirsten Moore, a collection of essays by family
BORDEK p til van isn ti sn g a n dan d s o cr ie ap l r o andu dc t biv ioe m h edea iclt ah l sp cr ieo nv ti id se tr ss , f rh oe mal t h o v ea rc- a
dozen countries discussing the links between sexuality,
reproductive health, contraceptive practices and
health-seeking behavior. $20 pb, 0-878-34085-8.
“Gail Griffin is the teacher I dreamed The Population Council, One Dag Hammar-
of having—witty, passionate, wide-rang- skjold Plaza, New York NY 10017; 212-339-0514, fax
ing in her enthusiasms. I came away feel- 212-755-6052, e-mail <pubinfo@popcouncil.org>.
ing I had made a friend for life.”
In Blossom at the Mention of Your Name by
—Elizabeth Forsythe Hailey Fiona Cooper, two characters, Gerth and Fey, fall in
Author of A Woman of Independent Means love, but the strain of their differences is too much for
them to ignore. Then along comes Eleanor, whose
“Griffin excels at describing both the ability to overcome hurt and pain inspires both men.
difficulties and the exhilaration of college Cooper weaves themes of change and growth, loss
teiching., — Publishers Weekly and recovery, and birth and decay into this tale. $13.99
pb, 1-85242-399-4.
“. . . a good, fun read for anyone who Rotary Spokes, Fiona Coopers first novel origi-
cares about literature and gender. . .a nally published by Brilliance Books in 1988, was
friendin-book form... -—_Kyrkus Reviews reprinted by Serpent's Tail in January. Rotary Spokes,
a six-foot-four motorcycle mechanic who falls in love
TRILOGY BOOKS with a woman, faces religious bigotry and discovers
50 S. DeLacey Avenue, Suite 201 that there is more to life than the one-horse town of
Pasadena, CA 91105 (818)440-0669 Normal. She, her Guardian Angel and the woman she
Distributed by Independent Publishers Group meets on the way take part in a series of adventures
Also available through Ingram or B&T in search of freedom, true love and woman-power.
$13.99 pb, 1-85242-507-5.
March/April 1996 94
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsSerpent's Tail, 180 Varick Street, 10th Floor, St. Paul MN 55114; 612-641-0077. Distributed by
New York NY 10014; 212-741-8500. Distributed by Consortium.
Consortium.
Ahead of Her Time: A Sampler of the Life and
In Over the Rainbow: Money, Class and Homo- Thought of Mary Wollstonecraft selected and
phobia, Nicola Field argues that lesbian and gay male arranged by Ella Mazel has excerpts from the letters
politics are in “serious disarray,” and that the organized and writings of this great pioneer of the feminist
movement has little to offer most people. She analyzes movement. $10.95 pb, 0-9641887-3-2. Bernel Books,
the divisions in the movement and illustrates the con- PO Box 419, Larchmont NY 10538; 914-834-3920. Dis-
nections between economics and homophobia. Field tributed by Brunner /Mazel; 212-924-3344.
also sets out a new agenda for united resistance rooted
in the politics of class. $16.95 pb, 0-7453-0826-0; $50 cl, Philadelphia Flowers is a collection of poetry by
-0825-2. Pluto Press, 140 Commerce Street, East Haven Roberta Hill Whiteman, a 1994 recipient of the Lila
CT 06512; 800-243-0138. Distributed by Login/InBook. Wallace-Reader’s Digest Award and an enrolled mem-
ber of the Oneida Nation of Wisconsin. Whiteman “is a
poet who understands struggle, and generously
imparts her passion for renewal. Her work stems from
the toughness of a compassionate survivor. Philadel-
The women in Places in the World a Woman phia Flowers is a book of unflinching hope.” —Louise
Could Walk, short stories by Janet Kauffman, are Erdrich. $10.95 pb, 0-930100-64-6. Holy Cow! Press, PO
unafraid of looking closely at their flawed lives. They Box 3170, Mount Royal Station, Duluth MN 55803;
are burdened by the struggles of rural existence and 218-724-1653. Distributed by Consortium.
determined to embrace the simplest of pleasures.
Whether slaughtering a favorite cow or leaving a In The Unbearable Heart, Kimiko Hahn (Air
violent husband, these women make tough choices Pocket and Earshot) deals with grief, mourning, over-
and live with the consequences. “Kauffman takes us coming her mother’s death and exploring Japanese
through these stories with an intensity that leaves us folk, classical themes and poetics. “Reading Kimiko
reeling.” —Ms. $12 pb, 1-55597-233-0. Hahn's The Unbearable Heart, you have the sense
In Dream House, Charlotte Nekola reflects on of someone tearing the past apart and rebuilding
growing up in St. Louis in the 50s, recalling a time with naked raw hands. The work is furious, flawed,
when it was important to crease your khakis, shine the and absolutely necessary.” —Adrienne Rich. Kaya
fins on your car and plant flowers in front of your Productions, 8 Harrison Street #3, 5th Floor, New
home. Contradicting the notion that families were as York NY 10013; 212-431-1291, fax 925-5684, e-mail
well-kept as their lawns, Nekola reveals the darker <kaya@panix.com>.
side of suburban life — the disillusionment and fear
behind the façade of the perfect family and home. Girl Hurt by E. J. Miller Laino “is a vibrant and
Recollecting her family — torn apart by alcoholism, compelling book, less a collection than a spiritual
early death and homelessness — Nekola explores memoir, in which the stature of poetry restores to the
What might have been lost in the struggle to achieve word recovery its full complexity, depth, and human
the “good life” to which so many people aspire. $12 resonance.” Laino writes frankly about sex, death
pb, 1-55597-225-X. and motherhood. $9.95 pb, 1-882295-07-2. Alice
Graywolf Press, 2402 University Avenue # 203, James Books, 98 Main Street, Farmington ME 14938;
95 March/April 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
207-778-7071. Distributed by Small Press Distribu- Mary Dorcey won the Rooney Prize for Irish
tion, Koen /Inland and B&T. Literature for A Noise From the Woodshed. Her new
collection of poems, Moving Into the Space Cleared
Reaching for the Mainland & Selected New by Our Mothers, expresses Irish, feminist and
Poems by Judith Ortiz Cofer reflects her growth in her lesbian concerns highlighting the universality of
art and expands on themes that run throughout her human experience. $11.95 pb, 1-897648-25-1, Salmon
work — family and cultural issues. About her past Publishing.
work Women’s Review of Books: writes “Remark-
able...Ortiz Cofer is a fine storyteller. Her prose
conveys all the energy and mystery of anticipation.”
$9 pb, 0-927534-55-X. Bilingual Press, Hispanic
Research Center, Arizona State University, PO Box Drawn from journals, autobiographies, letters,
872702, Tempe AZ 85287; 602-965-3867. Distributed private diaries and travel books, the tales in Wander-
by B&T. ing Women: Two Centuries of Travel Out of Ireland
by A. A. Kelly follow solo explorers, travels on duty,
The Wop Factor is the most recent collection of travels for pleasure and travels for economic gain.
Italian American lesbian poetry by Rose Romano, Spanning five continents, Wandering Women pre-
the author of Vendetta and the founder and éditor of sents the writings of 37 travellers from the 1790s to the
a bella figura, the first and only literary journal 1990s. $24 pb, 0-86327-445-5, Wolfhound Press.
devoted to work by Italian American women. $10 Colette's Retreat From Love, first published in
pb, no ISBN. Malafemmina Press, c/o Lincoln 1907, has been translated from the French and
Springs Press, PO Box 269, Franklin Lakes NJ 07417; republished with an introduction by Margaret
201-238-0342. Crosland. Set in Jura, Claudine awaits her husband’s
THE A Born-Again Wife’s
BUTCHES First Lesbian Kiss
OF and other poe
LAKE
STORIES
: fax (415) 863-7456
March/April 1996 96
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Falcon Feather & Valkyrie Sword: Feminine
Shamanism, Witchcraft & Magick by D. J. Conway
presents a system that draws on women’s mysteries
from a number of traditions — Celtic, Greek, Egyp-
tian, Indian and Middle Eastern — focusing on the
lessons to be learned from the Valkyries, warrior-
women of the Norse pantheon. These exercises,
rituals, magickal techniques and guided shamanic
In Aunt Carrie’s War Against Black Fox Nuclear journeys are designed to help women tap the femi-
Power Plant, Carrie Barefoot Dickerson writes about nine power within them. $19.95 pb, 1-56718-163-5.
her outrage when she discovered the government was Llewellyn Publications, St. Paul MN 55164; 800-843-
going to build a nuclear power plant near her home- 6666. Distributed by BP, Ingram, B&T and Pacific
town. Dickerson sells her business and mortages her Pipeline.
family’s farm in her personal fight against nuclear
energy. $24.95 cl, 1-57178-009-2. 43% on 4+. Council
Oak Books, 1350 East 15th Street, Tulsa OK 74120;
800-247-8850. Distributed by BP, Ingram, B&T, New
Leaf, Koen/Inland and Moving Books. Women, Information Technology, and Scholar-
ship edited by H. Jeanie Taylor, Cheris Kramarae and
In Women & History: Voices of Early Modern Maureen Ebben is an introduction to many of the
England edited by Valerie Frith, some exceptional issues explored by Women, Information Technology,
women — a gambling duchess, a philosopher duch- and Scholarship (WITS), an interdisciplinary group of
ess, a pioneering botanist, a young widow struggling women scholars and academic professionals at the
to save her family estate, women debtors and a queen University of Illinois (Urbana-Champaign), formed to
of the London underworld — are introduced through explore and address gender equity issues in informa-
their own writings, illustrating a world that was both tion technology. The book addresses the ways gender,
like our own and very different from it. $14.95 pb, race and class hierarchies are integrated into new
0-88910-500-6. Coach House Press, 50 Prince Arthur information technologies, with articles by Dale
Avenue #107, Toronto ONT M5R 1B5, Canada. Spender and Cheris Kramarae. $10 pb, 1-882875-00-1.
Distributed by Consortium. WITS Colloquium, Center for Advanced Study,
University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, 912 West
Finding Our Way Through the Dark: The Illinois Street, Urbana IL 61801; 217-333-6729.
Astrology of the Dark Goddess Mysteries by
Demetra George uses astrology to examine the femi- The heroine in Returning to ʻA, a novel by
nine and the dark goddess mysteries. “...Another of Dorien Ross, leaves home, travels to Andalusia and
Demetra George’s immeasurable gifts to women. This learns to play flamenco guitar from the Gypsies. Her
is depth astrology, with insights from feminism and life with the Gypsies is haunted by the death of her `
Buddhism as well as western psychology. Profound brother Aaron. “Speaking of an exquisite yet vanish-
and helpful!” — Vicki Noble. $16.95 pb, 0-935127-32-1. ing culture and of a private grief, this book possesses
Astro Communications Services, 5521 Ruffin Road, a rare beauty and grace. The sheer lyricism of the
San Diego CA 92123; 619-492-9919. Distributed by BP, prose is a joy...A tour de force!” —Susan Griffin. $9.95
New Leaf, B&T, Ingram, Moving Books and Atrium. pb, 0-87286-307-7; $18.95 cl, -306-9. City Lights Books,
97 March/April 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
261 Columbus Avenue, San Francisco CA 94133; 415-
362-1901. Distributed by BP and Koen/Inland.
Marion Crook, a health writer/researcher and
Arte Público Press wre ig this t e wr oed m e n nu r as be o, u tt o u thre ed ir N co or nt ch e r nA sm ae nr dic a s es ap re ca hk ii nn gg for
The oldest and largest publisher of U.S. Hispanic Literature e syxa sm tep mle ss . Io nf Min yn o Bva ot di yv :e Ww oo mm ee nn - c Se pn et ae kr e d O u h t e a Alt bh o u tcare
Their Health Care, Crook reports how women of
Must-Read New Titles for Spring! various ethnic and sociological backgrounds obtain
medical information and what their experiences are
Mangos, Bananas and Coconuts: using different treatment methods. $24.95 cl,
A Cuban Love Story 0-306-44943-9.
Himilce Novas Women Changing Science: Voices from a Field
ISBN 1-55885-082-9 • Clothbound ®• $22.95 in Transition by Mary Morse explores the experiences
I t cn a og u o nt nh ti ri ss yt ss i m d e ea m r v le ie r kl go eeu s C f ars ra o it m bi br ee at n ho ef T l rm u is sa h tg a i n c t s r or ape na ic dli s s m Io so, f l d t t eh h se ,e bt Cw ou ui bn na dn p r too- o s sc cf i i e e n nco c ce en s t .e c m aI rnp eto ee rr r sa v ,r iy e Mw iw on ro g sm e e w n uo n m ei an e rn t t h h a st e a a n la l f t i u es lr t da a l g e i nsa n d o u f p hp th eh ay ves aii r lc ,al
each other in an eternal embrace that neither politics, nor with scientists of both sexes doing their best to survive
geography, nor the ill-will of family and society can in rapidly shifting social and professional climates.
break. Separated at birth, Juan grows up pampered and $27.95 cl, 0-306-45081-X.
spoiled in the lap of luxury among the wealthiest Cubans In The Abortion Dilemma: Personal Views on a
in Miami. The beautiful, humble Esmeralda grows up in Public Issue, Miriam Claire maintains that reason,
Spanish Harlem, the daughter of a fundamentalist tolerance and medical knowledge are the most effec-
preacher and the pride and wonder of El Barrio. Then one tive weapons in defending a woman’s right to
id nta oy h, e r a lo vy e.oung man walks into her church, into her life, c do en ns oi mde ir n a ta ib oo nr at l io in n. t eU rvsi in ewg s ,i n Cte lr ain ra et i o cn real a t ea sn d a m pau tl hti - of
learning, compassion and understanding that provides
Song o f G rth ae c i eH lu am m Li in mgb óir nd a foundation for an educated opinion about abortion.
ISBN 1-55885-157-7 • Clothbound • $19.95 Many aspects of abortion are discussed including varied
ISBN 1-55885-091-0 • Trade Paperback • $11.95 opinions of men and women, religious and cultural
perceptions, rape, HIV and pregnancy, abnormal fetuses
From Aztec princess to slave and concubine, Humming- and the history of abortion’s status and parental consent
bird—or Huitzitzilín in her native Nahuatl—recounts the laws. $24.95 cl, 0-306-45080-1.
powerful tale of her life during the Spanish conquest of Insight Books, Plenum Publishing, 233 Spring
M woe mxi ec no. hE ax vp er e ss tsi rn ivg e da fc oo rn f cid enen tuce r i ea sn d t o f r ae te td aio nm , st hh ea t passion- Street, New York NY 10013; 800-221-9369. Distributed
ately relates her story to Father Benito, the priest who by Ingram and B&T.
seeks to confess her, to grant her an absolution she nei-
ther needs nor wants. Instead, Huitzitzilín forces him to In Crucial Conversations: Interpreting Contem-
see the conquest, for the first time, through the eyes of the porary American Literary Autobiographies by
conquered. Women, Jeanne Braham concentrates on the writer’s
use of metaphor and image to explore themes includ-
These and other important new titles may be ordered from ing the role of the mother, the effects of nurturance on
Arte Público Pre sy s o u «er Ulo nc ia vl e rd si is tt yr i b ou ft o Hr o uo sr t o d ni r e «c et ly H o uf sr to om n, Texas the developing self, and the writer’s sense of place as
77204-2090 a trigger for memory and imagination. Works by
Call TOLL FREE 1-800-633-ARTE. Audre Lorde, Toni Morrison, Gloria Steinem, May
UH is an EOAA institution Sarton and Gloria Anzaldua are among those
explored. $17.95 pb, 0-8077-6278-4; $38 cl, -6279-2.
March/April 1996 98
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
In The Will to Violence: The Politics of Personal greater fulfillment, power and love in their lives.
Behavior, Susanne Kappeler develops an original Gatlin also explains how to achieve spiritual fitness,
feminist analysis of violence, arguing that it is a type loving and spiritually enhanced relationships, greater
of action that individuals ‘will or choose to perform. self-esteem and a more positive point of view. “June
The book focuses on the sphere of personal relation- Gatlin’s insight has brought light to my life and the
ships as the prime context of where interpersonal lives of countless others.” —Susan L. Taylor, Essence
relationships are structured and the politics of behav- magazine. $19.95 cl, 1-879360-39-X. The Noble Press,
ior are shaped. $18.95 pb, 0-8077-6280-6. 213 W. Institute Place #508, Chicago IL 60610; 312-642-
LELE? 1168. Distributed by BP.
Zl li New titles in Berg's Cross-Cultural Perspectives
on Women series include ‘Male’ and ‘Female’ In
Since 1986, The New Jersey Project has been Developing Southeast Asia edited by Wazir Jahan
pioneering the statewide transformation of the college Karim ($17.95 pb, 1-85973-027-2; $38.95 cl, 0-85496-
curriculum away from the traditional androcen- 905-5); Women Wielding the Hoe: Lessons from
tric/Eurocentric canon and toward an inclusive, Rural Africa for Feminist Theory and Development
nonsexist, multicultural one. Gathered in Creating an Practice edited by Deborah Fahy Bryceson ($19.95 pb,
Inclusive College Curriculum: A Teaching Source-
book From the New Jersey Project are over 40
innovative syllabi and teaching resources for two-year COLOR YOUR HAIR RED
jc eo cl tl se g e ins c la us d iw ngel l t has e u stn ri uv ce tr usi rt ei se s . o fT h ke n oe wss la ey ds g e ,c o v fe er m is nu isb t- by Polly Döge
science, affirmative action and psychoanalysis and __ “A raw and ultimately com-
feminism. Editors are Ellen G. Friedman, Charley B. _ passionate reflection upon a
Flint, Wendy K. Kolmar and Paula Rothenberg. $26.95 woman's life...Well-written
pb, 0-8077-6282; $70 cl, -6283-0. and at times unbearably
In Teaching the Majority: Breaking the Gender insightful in terms of wom-
Barrier in Science, Mathematics, and Engineering en's claiming or abnegation
edited by Sue V. Rosser, teachers who have transformed of power.”
their courses to appeal to women students write about Feminist Bookstore News
their curricula, problem sets, lab exercises and peda-
“...cruises along on brutal
in attracting and retaining women in science and tech- ah no dn e s ft oy r. t.. hin rt igen hs te .”ly private
nolog y A t c ho eu nr es e s S. e r $ ie2 s2 ,. 9 5 T e ap cb h, e r 0 s- 8 C0 o7 l7 l- e6 g2 e7 6 P- r8 e. ss, PO Box 20, _ Publisher's Weekly
Williston VT 05495. Distributed by AIDC; 800-575-6566. Autobiography ° $11.95 ° ISBN: 0-934252-59-9
HOHM PRESS
In Spirit Speaks to Sisters: An Empowering P.O. Box 2501 • Prescott, AZ 86302
Testimony of Faith and Love for Women of African 1-800-381-2700 • Fax 520-717-1779
Descent, June Juliet Gatlin, a spiritual advisor,
instructs Black women on how to have a more inti- or SCB DISTRIBUTORS • 1-800-729-6423
mate relationship with the Spirit of God, resulting in
99 March/April 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
1-85973-073-6; $45.95 cl, -068-X); and Money-Go- guide include: an annotated “bi-bliography,” an anno-
Rounds: The Importance of Rotating Savings and tated list of recommended films, a merchandise guide,
Credit Associations for Women edited by Shirley and information on safer sex. $8 pb, postage paid. Ochs
Ardener and Sandra Burman, which addresses coun- is expecting the 1996 edition to have close to 200 pages
tries from Africa and Asia to the U.S. ($45.95 c|, and a glossy cover. It will be available in late spring.
0-85496-832-6). Berg Publishers, 13950 Park Center $12.95 pb, postage paid. BRC, PO Box 639, Cambridge
Road, Herndon VA 22071; 703-435-9326. Distributed MA 02140; 617-442-9595.
by BF, B&T and Ingram.
Other titles on women and development include
African Women and Development: A History by
Margaret C. Snyder and Mary Tadesse ($19.95 pb, The reissue of Foreign and Female: Immigrant
1-85649-300-8, Zed Books. Distributed by Humanities Women in America, 1840-1903 by Doris Weatherford
Press International, 165 First Avenue, Atlantic High- is a complete revision and twice as long as the 1986
lands NJ 07716) and Women and the New Trade edition. Using extensive quotations from letters and
Agenda by Susan Joekes and Ann Weston ($7.95 pb, diaries, Weatherford documents the joys and hard-
0-912917-34-2, UNIFEM. Distributed by Women, Ink., ships that European immigrant women experienced
777 United Nations Plaza, New York NY 10017; 212- during this time. “Whether they came alone, to be
687-6833). with family, to seek their fortunes, or to flee religious
persecution, immigrant women made an enormously
The 1995 issue of The Bisexual Resource Guide jarring transition as they struggled to make lives for
edited by Robyn Ochs lists 344 bi- and 1070 bi-inclusive themselves and their families in what was often a
groups in 22 countries. New sections in this 136-page hostile and unjust environment.” $35 cl, 0-8160-3100-2.
EXUALITY
text by Diane Mariechild photography by Marcelina Martin
“When we open
Iau kia many books and has been exibited in Europe, Australia and the U.S. (XONA (T TL18
PI R TA eA TAa E Diane Mariechild is the author of Mother Wit, The Inner Dance, feminine , the
tion o J and an and Open Mind: Women’s Daily Inspiration for Becoming Mindful. aJi Ee
intiation into An especially empowering volume for the gay/lesbian LATAAT
( TaoT LÁ L P API ec notmh umsuianNsittsy. , I tt Kh wisi l le x mqAuaiksiet e a nLb o eoxkc Ae wlleilnlt a lgsiof t .be : of in teretst tho phoetogr aph y Lw PET DoA ArTeJ l id,
e Available from: 11 X 8 1/2 (oblong), 144 pgs :
TAAL Bo okSp eo p7le 9 (80000) 9 99E- d 46g50e w49 adtuoetorne pDhotrogirvapehs pbapaerc- k m,ak in g$ 2lo4ve.95 1
mysteries. Oakland, California 94621 ISBN 0-914728-81-4 becomes sacred.
March/April 1996 100 Volume 18 Number 6
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
ages heal from both physical and emotional ailments.
Indigenous people around the world have told stories
to evoke healing spirits and inspire change for thou-
Milk, Money, and Madness: The Culture and sands of years. Tell It by Heart: Women and the
Politics of Breastfeeding by Naomi Baumslag and Healing Power of Story began as a collection of
Dia L. Michels examines why breastmilk has been essays and evolved into a collection of stories — cross-
demoted to only one-among-many infant food breeds between case studies and passion plays — that
options, and asks why infant formula (intended to encourage healing. $16.95 pb, 0-8126-9302-7. Open
save sick infants) has become a billion-dollar industry Court, Box 599, Peru IL 61354; 800-435-6850. Distrib-
when breast-feeding provides significant health bene- uted by B&T and Ingram.
fits to both mother and child and bottle-feeding
causes the death of more than 1.5 million babies each Using ‘Red-letter Days’: A Journal to Track
year. The authors assert that both health care profes- Life's ‘Periods’ by Mae Mary, women can track their
sionals and the transformation of the breast into a ‘red-letter days’ and creativity over their lifetimes,
sexual object have played a major role in the decline refer to the calendars when discussing their gyneco-
of breast-feeding. $26.95 cl, 0-89789-407-3. Bergin & logical health with their physicians, highlight
Garvey, imprint of Greenwood Publishing, 88 Post experiences they want to remember and think about
Road West, PO Box 5007, Westport CT 06881; 203-226- menstruation in ways they never have before. In
3571. Distributed by Ingram and B&T. English $15.95 pb, 1-887679-11-1; in Japanese $20.95
pb, -23-5. 40% on 10+. Foxglove Foundation, 11072
San Pablo Avenue, Dept. 236, El Cerrito CA 94530;
510-525-3719.
The most recent addition to the Recovering the In Gays and Lesbians in Asia and the Pacific
U.S. Hispanic Literary Heritage series is Who Would edited by Gerard Sullivan and Laurence Wai-Teng
Have Thought It? by María Amparo Ruiz de Burton, Leong, contributors from Japan, the Philippines,
edited by Rosaura Sánchez and Beatrice Pita. Origi- Singapore and Australia share their experiences as
nally published in 1872, this historical romance insiders in each culture, and describe their local
engages the dominant myths about nationality, race lesbian and gay [male] communities and the avail-
and gender prevalent in the U.S. prior to and during ablity of social services. Issues addressed include
the Civil War. Who Would Have Thought It? follows self-recognition, legal status, freedom of choice,
a young Mexican girl from captivity in the South, to health, and social and information needs of lesbians
life in a New England household. The author and gay men in their particular cultures. $9.95 pb,
addresses the disenfranchised status of women and 1-56023-073-8.
critiques postwar Northern racism and the U.S. The contributors to Gay Men and the Sexual
imperialism. $12.95 pb, 1-55885-081-3. Arte Público History of the Political Left edited by Gert Hekma,
Press, University of Houston, Houston TX 77204; Harry Oosterhuis and James Steakley explore the
713-743-2841. Distributed by BP, Ingram, B&T and development of left-wing sexual politics from the
Pacific Pipeline. 1830s to the present, documenting communist, social-
ist and anarchist views toward homosexuality and
As a therapist, Erica Helm Meade has found homosexuals’ involvement with the left. $24.95 pb,
storytelling to be invaluable in helping people of all 1-56023-067-3.
101 March/April 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
THE SAID first Christian women, looking at women’s influence
on the common life of the first Christian communities
despite the struggles they endured under patriarchal
LANDS, domination. $29 cl, 0-664-22072-X.
The Stained Glass Ceiling: Churches and Their
ISLANDS, Women Pastors by Sally B. Purvis looks at the day-to-
day realities of women in church leadership, and
and PREMISES describes how two women and their congregations
evolved together. She hints at what the future may hold
for these women in the church. $11.99 pb, 0-664-25608-2.
Mary Margaret Sloan Westminster John Knox Press, 100 Witherspoon
Street, Louisville KY 40202; 502-569-5043. Distributed
Sloan’s passion for words — their lipstick traces and by Ingram, B&T and Spring Arbor (800-395-5599).
Al c s ami e sun msqa lg ut uk ey me ee rr n.s i ei cc n s aT e fg n ho t tr e hi o p n e om a f e il pn t ie p n rrtc yo ed et e sni o et t ian nr i nny os c t d n e o a( o a l oe fs if a t mr sg e au x r a ntta r am r eme t xa im o a t o tr r na ud e a.r rd i r n ei gHr aw u er e cc mo ry otu le e l l d f nd ep ci tl —r te .fh s ia otrsa n u ov K m re b a e to a hnoi t i ka ldn) en eh d n— te a r kd i Ft ei ref sd af si e- r H c “ “ ($o W Sy 7l pls .h ie 9t tc a 5e -t t r ST i i ho pw a Tn i. bn o h , i P e no yaf 1f gn u - 8 dn Dp 8ten oa h 7my nr 1eeo ’ 6t n n 6 t Kt -ii u Ta it 0dll m 0e e sa - s ”: ch 9 h . u )a O a mb nr Y Io o d, nou r ut L “ Ci w If ap in u e ia Kt s r h e ie w C l n l h ei Iet t d ’isi mh ln s d ag Jb y K i tu s r hic ntd o eehism n Mce Ci Cls u l o l eaf d m asar i vsn mo , eg ”m r y.”
(That’s Why)! by Donna Black you'll find Sylvia and
1 6 aC 1 lH 2 so-A 7 X 2 a1 v- aP 6 i0R la6E b3S l eS / f/ r e omB mo a ix l S m1 to9 a 1 l l7 c 8 h Pa rx/ e@ s m sM ti Dn n in . soe tra rgp i bo ul |i ts i, o n M :N 55419 eo Bnt oh t.e x r ( $ 7c 8a . 59r 5t 8 o 1 o p ,n b s , B a 0 rn -9d id6 2 gf 9u e1n 6 pn 2 o-y 9 r - t3e .s ) s a C Hy Ts y s ta 0eb ro 6iu a 6t 0 P 5b u ;e b i ln i 2cg a 0t 3a io - np 3sa , 3r 3- -9399.
1814 San Pablo Ave. / Berkeley, CA 94702 Distributed by Login /InBook.
Harrington Park Press, 10 Alice Street, Bing-
hamton NY 13904; 800-342-9678, fax 800-895-0582,
e-mail <getinfo@haworth.com>. Distributed by BP. In The Chalice and the Blade in Chinese
Culture: Gender Relations and Social Modèls by
Re-Membering and Re-Imagining edited by Chinese Partnership Research Group, edited by Fran
Nancy J. Berneking and Pamela Carter Joern collects P. Hosken with a foreword by Riane Eisler, 17 contrib-
90 articles, reflections, letters, poems, vignettes, uting scholars discuss the long history of Chinese
speeches and artworks capturing the “essence” of women and their relationships with men. There is also
the 1993 Re-Imagining Conference, a global theo- a response to Riane Eisler’s exploration of ‘partner-
logical colloquium in Minneapolis. Voices from ship’ tracing a similar evolution of another major
diverse cultures, denominations, sexual orienta- civilization. $16 + $4 postage or + $9 postage (air
tions and age groups provide insights to the “issues mail), no ISBN. $10 on 10+ books + $3 or + $8, $8 on
of faith, reconciliation, healing, empowerment, and 50+ same postage as for 10+. Wire U.S. dollars to
sacredness of God’s creation” that were the sub- CPRG. Minjiayin, No. 002114004-3332, Bank of China
stance of the event. $15.95 pb, 0-8298-1074-9. Pilgrim City Branch, Beijing Jian Guo Men Wai Sub-Office,
Press, 700 Prospect Avenue East, Cleveland OH No. 24 Jian Guo Men Wai Street Chaoyang District,
44115. Distributed by Ingram. Beijing China. Post Code: 100022, 011-8610-5159101;
or send a U.S. dollar check to Professor Min Jiayin,
In Lydia’s Impatient Sisters: A Feminist Social Institute of Philosophy, Chinese Academy of Social
History of Early Christianity, theologian and social Sciences, Beijing 100732, P. R. China. Include a letter
historian Luise Schottroff investigates the world of the asking for what you want. ©
March/April 1996 102
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
=
AN :
= tin ACAIN I A
By Mev Miller and violences against women which only seem to be
getting worse?
Welcome to the tip of the iceberg! There are lots
of new titles for Spring, so what's not covered here COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS
will be reviewed in the next issue. With the notable If you like quotation collections which include a
exception of Indiana University Press, there’s not blurb about the speaker, organization by subject, con-
much for lesbian studies. (NYU’s titles aren't due until temporary voices from around the world and from a
August!) Also, as you will note in my brief harangue spectrum of age groups, and words of substance and
under the NYU listing, there's a growing number of provocation, then you'll probably want to have
Gender Studies titles replacing Women’s Studies Women’s Words: The Columbia Book of Quotations
titles. Is this progress? by Women edited by Mary Biggs. $24.95 cl, 0-231-
Here's my wish list for academics publishing 07986-9, April.
with university presses...how about some serious
and accessible writings addressing activist strategies
and real social change for women’s lives from femi-
nist viewpoints? (Accessible here means everyday,
non-academic language.) Women’s Studies can For lovers of history told through biographical
teach us a lot about historical perspectives, philo- perspectives or life stories, Columbia has two exciting
sophical viewpoints, economic analysis, socio/ offerings this season. Queen Victoria's Secrets by
anthropological experiences, and race, class and sex- Adrienne Munich uses feminist, anthropological and
ual oppressions — lessons from which we can learn postcolonial approaches to understand the influence
much. But many feminist academics have insulated of Queen Victoria on a nation and on an era that bears
themselves in the academy, talking among them- her name. Filled with paradox and contradiction,
selves and continuing to survive and respond in Victoria's secret lies in her lack of originality! Illustra-
patriarchal institutions of higher learning. There are tions. ($27.95 cl, 0-231-10480-4, April.) In stunning
few bridges bringing their knowledge and analysis contrast, Days of Masquerade: Life Stories of Les-
to everyday oppression and commonplace strug- bian Women During the Third Reich by Claudia
gles. It’s not enough to just study us. This work must Schoppmann, translated by Allison Brown, is the first
also assist us in creating and developing usable in-depth study of lesbians during the Third Reich,
strategies for accomplishing fundamental social available in English. Through interviews, secondary
change. We've got the theory — it’s time for some- stories and partial reconstruction, Schoppmann pre-
thing a bit more grounded and real. It’s okay to sents the lives of ten lesbians and recounts their very
re-read the canon (see Penn State), but what's our different experiences — different from each other’s
response to two lesbians dead from assassination- and from those of gay men. This looks to be an excit-
type killing, or growing poverty among women, or ing contribution for those interested in lesbian
the steadily increasing right-wing conservative experience during a particularly oppressive time.
attack on women, or the other on-going oppressions ($24.95 cl, 0-231-10220-8, June.)
Volume 18 Number 6 103 March/April 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Additional titles of interest: To Desire Differ-
Va mulbjnle persyeectwes ently: Feminism and the French Cinema, Sandy
Flitterman-Lewis ($19.50 pb, 0-231-10497-9, June);
and the voices of these women ensure and Spirited Women: Gender, Religion, and Cul-
an incredibly rich and diverse analysis of tural Identity in the Nepal Himalaya, Joanne
Watkins ($18.50 pb, 0-231-10215-1, April).
what is ‘American’ and what is ‘feminism.’”
CONSTANCE WOLF DUKE UNIVERSITY PRESS
Associate Director, Whitney Museum of American Art Feminist camp? That’s what is claimed and
examined in Guilty Pleasures: Feminist Camp From
Mae West to Madonna by Pamela Robertson. I'll let
EFRAMINGS this one speak for itself. Here’s a quote from the
New American introduction: “Despite camp’s seemingly exclusive
Feminist affiliation with gay men and misogynist tendencies,
Photographies camp offers feminists a model for critiques of gender
and sex roles. Camp has an affinity with feminist
Edited by Diane Neumaier discussions of gender construction, performance, and
Foreword by Anne Wilkes Tucker enactment; we can thereby examine forms of camp as
162 b & w, 13 duotones, feminist practice.” Personally, I'm skeptical. $15.95
84 color photos pb, 0-8223-1748-6, May.
$49.95 cloth We know that colonialism in all its guises has
been damaging for women around the world. Duke
A Fine Romance... Home Girls offers two new titles in the Spring which look in new
Five Ages of Film Feminism Chicana Literary Voices ways at just what it has meant for women in specific
8P 9a t r ii lc luia rM ate il ole nn scamp A $1lv 6.i 9n 5a E. Quintana a a inr n ee d sa s . t hh oH e o m C tue rl t a u vn r eld e s H hoa afr e em T dr : a v hN e ela t i b io dyn , sI nG d ae ben r od p ue a tr l , G uE r lm te uwp ri a er l e , ae nx dam-
s t w a s p t e a c
$19.95 The Politics of Manhood nation in 19th-century imperialist England and colo-
nial India. It’s a transnational cultural study reflecting
Profeminist Men Respond to the Mythopoetic Men’s how imperialist travel narratives affected women of
Movement (and the Mythopoetic Leaders Answer) all classes in both countries. ($15.95 pb, 0-8223-1740-
Edited by Michael S. Kimmel 0.) Similarly, Fantasizing the Feminine in Indonesia
$18.95 edited by Laurie Sears, portrays how understandings
FA toep mp Wl ii nc oia s mt ti eo nn L ’s e s g ao Llf iv T eh seory SW W elfo o -Im m nve e enn n ti o nR W ie nra i d Pti ai un n lag g, o TDf hu t i scf he i m s ci on al i on n ce oi a l llb e e cnh tioa otv nii oo n r os f i n o ef s sI n ap yd r so o n p e ae ns ri da w w si tve oer rse i e a sm n d to ol d lm de d o ft h rb oey r ms . the
S Re ex p, r oV di uo cl te in oc ne, Work, and G Anun zan ld úA al ,l e n an, d G l Ao ur dia re Lorde v acie tw ivp iso ti ,n t s r e lo igf i o I un sd o an ne ds i a ln it ew rao rm y.e n ( $ 1— 7 .9 p 5r o pf be ,s s i 0o -n 8a 2l 2, 3-1696-X.)
AnaLouise Keating
Edited by D. Kelly Weisberg
$34.95
Additional titles of interest: Arrogant Beggar by
Y PRESS Anzia Yezierska is a social criticism novel first pub-
lished in 1927 ($12.95 pb, 0-8223-1749-4, April); Fatal
Advice: How Safe-Sex Education Went Wrong by
Available through Ingram, Koen, Bookpeople Cindy Patton has more on the lack of good response
or call toll-free 1-800-447-1656 by the American public to the realities of AIDS ($15.95
March/April 1996 104
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termspE
nri T A
It
pb, 0-8223-1747-8, May); and the essays in Passing writing of Djuna Barnes as a basis for comparison.
and the Fictions of Identity edited by Elaine Ginsberg ($13.95 pb, 0-253-21047-X.) Lesbian Subjects: A
consider a wide range of texts and moments from Feminist Studies Reader edited by Martha Vicinus
colonial times to the present that raise questions on uses essays from Feminist Studies (1980-1993) to
the political motivations for passing — in gender understand the lesbian as subject for scrutiny — she
and/or in race ($16.95 pb, 0-8223-1764-8, May). exists, but how do we define her history, whom do
HARVARD UNIVERSITY PRESS we include, and when did it begin? This is a history
of lesbian studies as viewed by such writers as Susan
In an urban public school, among girls from diverse Cahn, Tee Corinne, Akasha (Gloria T.) Hull, and
cultural backgrounds — African American, Hispanic, Makeda Silvera, among others. ($16.95 pb, 0-253-
Portuguese, and white — and from poor and working- 21038-0, June.)
class families, the authors sought a key to the More Than Chatte]: Black Women and Slavery
relationship between risk, resistance, and girls’ psycho- in the Americas edited by David Barry Gaspar and
logical development and health. The result is Between Darlene Clark Hine explores how women’s experi-
Voice and Silence: Women and Girls, Race and Rela- ences of slavery differed from men’s as women’s
tionship edited by Jill McLean Taylor, Carol Gilligan and reproductive capabilities were exploited as well as
Amy Sullivan. $22 cl, 0-674-06879-3. their productive ones. $18.95 pb, short discount,
Constructing Panic: The Discourse of Agora- 0-253-21043-7, April.
phobia by Lisa Capps and Elinor Ochs may have too
much clinical psychology and linguistic analysis for
most trade stores. I include it here, though, because it
does explore the life situation of a woman who suf-
fered with this isolating and debilitating condition for Reproduction, Ethics, and the Law: Feminist
six years. $29.95 cl, 0-674-16548-9. Perspectives edited by Joan C. Callahan touches on
INDIANA UNIVERSITY PRESS many controversial issues related to reproduction for
feminists in technological times. Adoption, frozen
Three new books of lesbian interest are among embryos, infertility, RU 486, lethal injection, fathers’
Indiana's list this season. Unfortunately, they’re all rights, choosing children’s sex, and more are viewed
short discount so check with your rep about an from feminist, legal and ethical viewpoints by sev-
agency plan. Sinuosities: Lesbian Poetic Politics by eral writers, including Janice Raymond. $24.95 pb,
Jeffner Allen will be for those deep in philosophical 0-253-20996-X.
conversation about postmodernism. I must say that Kiss Me Deadly: Feminism and Cinema for
the catalog copy makes it difficult (if not impossible) the Moment edited by Laleen Jayamanne offers
to know exactly what this book is about. However, essays dealing with a variety of film directors, both
since it’s by Jeffner, we can assume it’s challenging women and men, outside the canon. Included
(both in writing style and content), and fiercely among them are Julie Dash, Jane Campion, Rainer
lesbian and feminist. ($15.95 pb, 0-253-21046-1.) In Werner Fassbinder and Martin Scorsese. $14.95 pb,
Following Djuna: Women Lovers and the Erotics of short discount, 0-90995226-4.
Loss, Carolyn Allen looks at the writings of Jeanette Back in print: New Catholic Women: A Contem-
Winterson, Rebecca Brown, and Bertha Harris in porary Challenge to Traditional Religious
understanding lesbian fiction and erotics, using the Authority, Mary Jo Weaver. $14.95 pb, 0-253-20993-5.
Volume 18 Number 6 105
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsTE
Motherhood Reconceived Girls! Girls! Girls!
FLemAinUismR I a n dU tMhe A LNegaSciKes Y o f EthDe I TSixEtiDes CBritYic al S EAssaRysA oHn W ComOenO PanEd R Music
AUGUST / 280 PAGES / 0-8147-8562-X / $17.95 PA MARCH / 180 PAGES / 12 ILLUS. / 0-8147-1541-9 / 15.95 PA
Sexual Investigations Queer Studies
ALAN SOBLE A Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and Transgender Anthology
AUGHUST / 32y0 PAGEbS / 2 r ILLUS.i / d0-8147-8 004- 0 / ;$26 .95 C L ED.ITE D BY BRiETT BEEMYN AND MICKEY ELIASON
. AUGUST / 420 PAGES / 7 X 10 /0-8147-1258-4 / $24.95 PA
BAismexuearlsi, c Manul t irLacaiwals , aFnod r O thOeur r Msiesflvitse s U n adenr d L e sEbiaacn h F r iOentdhsheiprs
RUTH COLKER EDITED BY JACQUELINE S. WEINSTOCK AND
JULY / 224 PAGES / 0-8147-1538-9 / $18.95 PA ESTHER D. ROTHBLUM
. . AUGUST / 300 PAGES /- 10 PHOTOGRAPHS / 0-8147-7473-3 / $18.95 PA
Fixing Patriarchy
Feminism and Mid-Victorian Male Novelists The Lavender Vote
DONALD E. HALL Lesbians, Gay Men, and Bisexuals in American Electoral
JUNE / 30 0 ,PA GE S M / 0-8A147-3R537-K1 / $1 8.9H5 PAE PoRliticsTZOG
Mastering Slavery AUGUST / 264 PAGES / 0-8147-3530-4 / $18.95 PA
MJeEmNorNy, I FFaEmRil y , F aLnEd I SIdCenHtiNtyE iRn WRomePenr’se sSelanvet i Nnagrr a tBiviess e .x u! aeluisties
AUGUST / 240 PAGES / 0-8147-2653-4 / $18.95 PA Subjects and Cultures of Fluid Desire
c EDITED BY MARIA PRAMAGGIORE AND DONALD E. HALL
URrebsanis tGiinrlgs ASUtGeUrSeTo t/y 3p2e0s ,P A GCErSe a/t i0n-8g1 4 7I-d66e3n4-tXi t i/e s$ 1 8«.9 5 . P Ae rE
EADHNEDD B NY IBOOBNNEI E WJ; A RYOS S E LDEAITDBEEDAT E RB Y D e bNatiInKg K GIe n dRer., DKebEaDtinDgI E Sexuality
JULY / 408 PAGES / 7 X 10 /0-8147-5108-3 / $19.95 PA MAY / 320 PAGES / 0-8147-4655-1 / $18.95 PA
TKhAe T PHrLosEtEitNut i oBnA RofR YSe x EuaDliItTyE DW oBmYe n L aAnRd R FYre eEdoLmD R iInD G EEarly America
JUNE / 381 PAGES / 0-8147-1277-0 / $18.95 PA AUGUST / 360 PAGES / 0-8147-2198-2 / $20.00 PA
Lesbian Erotics Men, Women and Madness
EDITED BY KARLA JAY JOAN BUSFIELD
1995 / 320 PAGES / 6 ILLUS. / 0-8147-4225-4 / $17.95 PA APRIL/ 296 PAGES / 0-8147-1281-9 / $18.95 PA
TWla y rV i t MiGne Agn T,d Ee rBRso I Ad) iL eO IsSn M N YBouI r 7 L0e f Wt amsh iNnegwt o Yno r kS q uUanriev e rSsoituyt h Press
Edited by Thomas Foster, Leea New York, NY 10012
IA Thomas Foster, Carol Siegel, and š
STIPY IE l lVenE TES. B (earNry Available at your local bookstore.
AUGUST / 400 PAGES / 13 ILLUS. AUGUST / 340 PAGES / 10 ILLUS. Phone: 1-800-996-6987 or Fax: 212-995-3833
0-8147-2647-X / $17.95 PA 0-8147-4682-9 / $17.95 PA
March/April 1996 , 106 Volume 18 Number 6
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsp
tny AAI I A
Additional titles of interest: A Cynthia Ozick relationship to music. It also touches on the wide
Reader edited by Elaine Kauver ($17.95 pb, 0-253- variety of musical styles and cultural perspectives:
21053-4, May); and RussianeWomen-eCulture edited gangsta rap, salsa, symphony, swing, ‘country, and
by Helena Goscilo and Beth Holmgren ($24.95 pb, more. $15.95 pb, 0-8147-1541-9.
short discount, 0-253-21044-5, April). Let's face it — like it or not — Gender Studies has
LOUISIANA STATE UNIVERSITY PRESS begun to replace Women’s Studies in many press listings
and university curriculums. I suppose Women’s Studies
Resurrection, poems by Nicole Cooley, is the — though clearly focused on the lives and accomplish-
winner of the 1995 Walt Whitman Award of the Acad- ments of women — indirectly always did critique men
emy of American Poets. These poems explore the and male behavior, especially as they are oppressive to
bonds between sisters, grandmothers and grand- women. However, as more and more books include
daughters, and mothers and daughters, following a writings by men and more direct inclusion of men’s
chorus of women’s voices along a hallucinatory nexus experiences — making Gender Studies a more accurate
of terror. They are the voices of women martyred, description — what becomes appropriate (or meaning-
imprisoned, exiled, silenced, and forgotten. $10.95 pb, ful) for feminist bookstores sometimes becomes less
0-8071-2059-6, April. clear and more difficult to describe/define. For those
For those who enjoy learning about and vicari- with pure Women’s Studies sections, you probably
ously living the days of the Harlem renaissance: Nella won't want these next two titles. For those with Gender
Larsen, Novelist of the Harlem Renaissance: A Studies sections, these next two books should be consid-
Woman's Life Unveiled by Thadious M. Davis uncov- ered. Debating Gender, Debating Sexuality edited by
ers the mystery surrounding the life and work of Nella Nikki Keddie incorporates essays by both women and
Larsen, one of the most influential and enigmatic writ- men from a variety of perspectives (Marxist, historical,
ers Of the Harlem renaissance. This biography situates psychological, etc.) in order to understand gender and
her life within the context of the politics and aesthetics sexuality. ($18.95 pb, 0-8147-4655-1, May.) Men, Women
of the times. $17.95 pb, 0-8071-2070-7. and Madness by Joan Busfield examines the complex
a gendered landscape of mental disorder. ($18.95 pb,
l 0-8147-1281-9, April.)
| Now in paperback: The Prostitution of Sexuality,
1 Kathleen Barry. $18.95, 0-8147-1277-0, June.
MAYFIELD PUBLISHING CO. Note: lesbian /gay interest titles are not publish-
New textbooks due in 1996: Gendered Relation- ed until August so will be reviewed in the next issue.
ships edited by Julia T. Wood addresses the
intersection of gender communication and interper- NORTHEASTERN UNIVERSITY PRESS
sonal relationships — personal, romantic, and Backin print: Women in Music: An Anthology of
professional. $19.95 pb, 1-55934-430-X; 800-433-1279. Source Readings From the Middle Ages to the
Present, Revised Edition edited by Carol Neuls-Bates.
NEW YORK UNIVERSITY PRESS $15.95 pb, 1-55553-240-3.
Girls! Girls! Girls!: Critical Essays on Women and
Music edited by Sarah Cooper raises and addresses OHIO UNIVERSITY PRESS/Swallow Press
some of the most provocative and challenging issues Soon available in paperback: Womanist and
concerning women’s active involvement in and Feminist Aesthetics: A Comparative Review,
Volume 18 Number 6 107
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Í Tuzyline Jita Allan. $16.95 pb, short discount, 0-8214- first-generation Korean immigrant women as they
1152-7, date not given. adapt to life in the U.S. ($19.95 pb, 0-7914-92738-2.)
Additional titles of interest: Daughters of Pales-
OXFORD UNIVERSITY PRESS tine: Leading Women of the Palestinian National
For those who appreciate the linguistic work of Movement, Amal Kawar ($16.95 pb, 0-7914-2846-X,
Deborah Tannen, you'll want to get her new collection April); and Exploring/Teaching the Psychology of
of essays, Gender & Discourse. These essays provide Women: A Manual of Resources, Second Edition,
a theoretical backdrop for her other writings, such as Michele A. Paludi ($19.95 pb, 0-7914-2772-2).
You Just Don’t Understand. It’s an introduction to Revised and updated: Sexual Harassment on
linguistics, a description of her research methods and College Campuses: Abusing the Ivory Power (a
a critique of the controversies surrounding her field revision of Ivory Power), Michele A. Paludi. $19.95
as well as some misunderstandings of her work. $9.95 pb, 0-7914-2802-8.
pb; 0-19-510124-3. PENN STATE UNIVERSITY PRESS
l£ Penn State has initiated a series that will be of
| particular interest to those studying philosophy. This
t series consists of edited collections of essays, offering
STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK PRESS feminist reinterpretations of the writings of major fig-
Women Writing Culture edited by Gary A. Olson ures in the Western philosophical tradition. Each
and Elizabeth Hirsh collects six interviews with inter- volume is devoted to the work of a single philosopher
nationally known scholars exploring feminism, and includes an extensive bibliography, introduction,
rhetoric, writing and multiculturalism. The scholars writings which cover the full range of the philoso-
are Sandra Harding, Donna Haraway, Mary Belenky, pher’s thought, and a representation of the diversity of
Luce Irigray, Jean-François Lyotard and bell hooks. approaches now being used by feminist critics.
$16.95 pb, 0-7914-2964-4. Previous volumes in this series include: Feminist Inter-
In When Women Kill, Coramae Richey Mann pretations of Plato edited by Nancy Tuana, Feminist
explores many aspects of the lives of women who Interpretations of Simone de Beauvoir edited by Margaret
murdered and provides descriptions of ecological and Simons, and Feminist Interpretations of Hannah Arendt
other circumstances of the murders, the victims, the edited by Bonnie Honig. The forthcoming Spring
motives of the perpetrators, and their fates in courts. additions to this series include: Feminist Interpreta-
Her studies include 296 women from six major urban tions of G.W.F Hegel edited by Patricia Jagentowicz
areas between 1979-1983. $19.95 pb, 0-7914-2812-5. Mills ($17.95 pb, 0-271-01491-1) and Feminist Inter-
SUNY offers three titles this season which are pretations of Mary Wollstonecraft edited by Maria
highly academic and specific in scope studying Falco ($16.95 pb, 0-271-01493-8).
women’s contributions to culture, religion, work and A
migration. Images of Women in Maharashtrian Lit- l
erature and Religion edited by Anne Feldhaus |
collects essays which investigate the images of !
women in the traditions of the Marathi language As a crime, rape is viewed more ambiguously
region of India. ($19.99 pb, 0-7914-2838-9.) Memories than most offenses. As a social issue, rape reflects deep
of Migration: Gender, Ethnicity, and Work in the divisions in our attitudes about sexuality and gender.
Lives of Jewish and Italian Women in New York, Nowhere are these divisions more obvious than in the
1870-1924 by Kathie Friedman-Kasaba offers an inter- controversies over date rape. Date Rape: Feminism,
disciplinary and global perspective on the causes of Philosophy, and the Law edited by Leslie Francis pro-
women’s migration. ($19.95 pb, 0-7914-2762-5.) vides a radical theory of acquaintance rape focusing on
Women Struggling for a New Life: The Role of actual communication before and during sex. The
Religion in the Cultural Passage From Korea to essayists in this collection include lawyers, philoso-
America by Ai Ra Kim explores religion in the lives of phers and feminists. $13.95 pb, 0-271-01429-6, May.
March/April 1996 108
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
If you have customers interested in theology and directions. Rather than focusing the gaze primarily on $
moral theory, here are two titles of interest: Relation- sex and bodies, she encourages women interested in
ship Morality by J. Kellenberger ($19.95 pb, film to also look at money and work in order to claim
0-271-01405-9) and Eros for the Other: Retaining and explore new territory. $19.95 pb, 1-56639-401-5.
Truth in a Pluralistic World by Wendy Farley ($16.95 In Women Reading Women Writing: Self-
pb, 0-271-01520-9, May). Both offer feminist perspec- Invention in Paula Gunn Allen, Gloria Anzaldua,
tives on ethical norms. However, your regular and Audre Lorde, AnaLouise Keating examines the
feminist spirituality crowd may find them too aca- ways in which Gunn Allen, Anzaldua and Lorde, all
demic or philosophical for casual reading. self-identified lesbians of color, engage in self analy-
£ sis, cultural critique, and construction of alternative
| ' myths and representations of women. Drawing on
| recent developments in feminist and queer theory,
TEMPLE UNIVERSITY PRESS ! Keating examines their creative and critical works
and illustrates how they invent new ways of thinking.
I received word from Temple that the following $18.95 pb, 1-56639-420-1, April.
titles announced for last Fall should arrive in January Three new titles on Temple’s list are not only
and February of 1996: Reframings: New American Femi- expensive but somewhat technical. I list them here
nist Photographies, Home Girls: Chicana Literary Voices, for the information of those with likely clientele, but
and Legal Inversions: Lesbians, Gay Men, and the Politics of I wouldn't recommend them for general trade pur-
Law. Their complete reviews are in the Nov/Dec issue. poses. Applications of Feminist Legal Theory to
A Fine Romance: Five Ages of Film Feminism by Women’s Lives: Sex, Violence, Work, and Repro-
Patricia Mellencamp looks at 20 years of film criticism duction edited by D. Kelly Weisburg offers a
and challenges feminist film theory to take some new comprehensive survey of the applications of
sVe w THIS İBN 6 FROM (JHFCA GO
Women of The Exceptional
the Far
Right Elisabeth Vigée-Lebrun
Tbe Mothers’ and the Cultural Politics
Movement and of Art
World War II MARY D. SHERIFF
GLEN JEANSONNE Engaging ancien-régime phi-
losophy, as well as modern
“An important contribution to our knowledge feminism, psychoanalysis, literary theory, and art
about the complexities of women’s political com- criticism, Sheriff’s interpretations of Vigée-Lebrun’s
mitments in a tumultuous era. Jeansonne opens up paintings challenge us to rethink the work and the
a world about which we know too little and helps world of this controversial woman artist.
to undermine the comforting myth that women are Cloth $40.00 368 pages 45 halftones
society’s natural pacifists.”—Jean Bethke Elshtain,
University of Chicago THE UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO PRESS
Cloth $29.95 288 pages 15 halftones
Volume 18 Number 6 109
March/April 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
to a seriously ill spouse, child, lover, parent or friend.
“Interesting and Chronicling the 15 years in which she cared for her
provocative." husband with multiple sclerosis, the “dirty details”
—Susan Estrich involve nights, lifting, and toilets. We see the raging
emotions, the celebrations, the day-to-day routine, the
“A remarkable arguments and disappointments, and the moments of
FEMINISM, PHILOSOPHY, AND THE LAW contribution to the field closeness. Cohen offers an intimate look at the strug-
of feminist thought." gles and realities encountered by one family,
—Rosemarie Tong experiences often invisible in a nursing-home culture.
ELdEtStLeIdE hFyRANCIS $16.95 pb, 0-56639-426-0, April.
Available in May 1996
UNIVERSITY OF ARIZONA PRESS
DATE RAPE Poetry, stories and literary criticism make up a
Feminism, Philosophy, and the Law good portion of University of Arizona’s list this Spring.
Edited by Leslie Francis El Milagro and Other Stories by Patricia Preciado
160 pages $13.95 paper 0-271-01429-6 Martin, author of Songs My Mother Sang to Me, contains
stories with a rich mix of the simple ingredients of
New in the Re-Reading the Canon Series food, family and tradition. Intermingled with the
FEMINIST INTERPRETATIONS OF stories are collective memories and tales of life in the
MARY WOLLSTONECRAFT barrio. ($9.95 pb, 0-8165-1548-4.) Mary Austin, writer,
Edited by Maria J. Falco feminist, and environmental activist, was a prolific
248 pages $16.95 paper 9-271-01493-8 writer of novels, essays, plays, short stories and poems.
FEMINIST INTERPRETATIONS OF A Mary Austin Reader edited by Esther F. Lanigan,
anthologizes some of her stories and articles, including
G. W. F. HEGEL many works not previously accessible. ($16.95 pb,
E 35d 2it e pd a g b ey s $P 1a 7t .r 9i 5c i a p aJ pa eg re n 0t -o 2w 71ic -z 0 1 4M 9i 1l -ls 1 0-8165-1620-8, May.) In Earthquake Weather, Janice
Gould offers, through poetry, her feelings, thoughts
PENN STATE PRESS and experiences of being lesbian and mixed-blood
820 N. University Drive California Indian of Koyangkauwi Maidu descent.
University Park, PA 16802 “This collection promises to be both powerful and
| 1-800-326-9180 important.” ($10.95 pb, 0-8165-1630-8, April.)
The Frontiers of Women’s Writing: Women’s
Narratives and the Rhetoric of Westward Expansion
feminist legal theory to specific areas of law. ($34.95 by Brigette Georgi-Findlay presents a range of writ-
pb, 1-56639-424-4, May.) Lost Talent: Women in the ings that reflect the diversity of western experience —
Sciences by Sandra Hanson tackles important ques- as viewed through women’s narratives. ($19.95 pb,
tions about women’s experiences in sciences and short discount, 0-8165-1597-2.) And, of related interest
mathematics that previous research left unan- — The Desert Is No Lady: Southwestern Landscapes
swered. ($39.95 cl, 1-56639-446-5, May.) Bachelors of in Women’s Writing and Art edited by Vera Norwood
Science: Seventeenth Century Identity, Then and and Janice Monk. ($17.95 pb, 0-8165-1649-9, April.)
Now by Naomi Zach looks at the intellectual and 4
social milieu within which early modern philoso- | ,
phers invented scientific identities. ($22.95 pb,
1-56639-436-8, June.) N'
On a completely different level of experience UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA PRESS
comes Dirty Details: The Days and Nights of a Well Two very different “yet interesting” biographies
Spouse by Marion Deutsche Cohen. This book will be are due this Spring from California. Lise Meitner: A
of interest to any woman who offers home health care Life in Physics by Ruth Lewin Sime tells the
March/April 1996 110
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsenyi AAI I A
absorbing story of Meitner (1878-1968), a prominent Jennifer L. Pierce lets us know that they are still a
physicist who codiscovered nuclear fission with Otto problem and that women lawyers and paralegals con-
Hahn and Fritz Strassman. Of Jewish origin, her tinue to develop creative strategies for resisting and
career was shattered when she fled Nazi Germany for disrupting the male-dominated status quo. $17.95 pb,
Stockholm, then England. Her scientific reputation 0-520-20208-6.
was further damaged when Hahn took full credit för Additional titles of interest: Women Writing
their work and received the 1944 Nobel Prize. This Culture edited by Ruth Behar and Deborah Gordon.
story, illustrated with Meitner’s personal writings, $16.95 pb, 0-520-20208-2.
portrays her life and also the sexism of the scientific
world. $30 cl, 0-520-08906-5. UNIVERSITY OF GEORGIA PRESS
4 What was it like to have Communist parents
l during 1950s McCarthyism in the U.S.? What was it
| like to be forced underground and to flee to Mexico
! and ultimately to Prague during the early stages of
Anne Goldman, in Take My Word: Autobio- Communist revolution? What was it like to grow up
graphical Innovations of Ethnic American experiencing cultural and language differences and
Working Women, challenges traditional approaches political disillusionment? An Un-American Child-
to autobiography and suggests new approaches to hood by Ann Kimmage explores these questions in
studying and learning from autobiography. The this memoir of her life. $29.95 cl, 0-8203-1768-3, April.
texts she uses to explore her thesis include culinary Large Animals in Everyday Life, stories by
narratives of Nuevo Mexicanas, African American Wendy Brenner, is the winner of the Flannery
memoirs of midwifery and healing, and Jewish O'Connor Award for Short Fiction. The eleven sto-
women’s histories of working in the garment indus- ries in this collection concern people who are alone
try. This study may provide insight for those who or who feel themselves to be alone. Their situations
want to understand how autobiographies are used are transformed by small miracles and sometimes
in cultural studies, but may be too theoretical for by very large and real animals. $22.95 cl, 0-8203-
those who just enjoy reading about women’s lives. 1794-2, May.
$16 pb, short discount, 0-520-20097-7. £
Solidarity of Strangers: Feminism After Iden- l
tity Politics by Jodi Dean contributes to the academic |
discussions of identity politics, universalism in rela- !
tion to difference, community, legal debates, UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS PRESS
multiculturalism and participatory democracy. The Good-bye, Piccadilly: British War Brides in
book is described as “an important step towards soli- America by Jenel Virden offers a fascinating history of
darity rooted in respect for difference,” but it seems to 70,000 British women who immigrated to the U.S.
be primarily for those within the academy. $16.95 pb, after WWII as the wives of American servicemen.
short discount, 0-520-20231-7. $13.95 pb, 0-252-06528-X, April.
For those who wonder if double standards and Historians, sociologists, anthropologists,
sexist attitudes are still a problem for women lawyers psychiatrists, religious leaders and physicians —
and paralegals, Gender Trials: Emotional Lives in especially those interested in Mormon experience —
Contemporary Law Firms will be a welcome book. will be curious to know about Same-Sex Dynamics
Volume 18 Number 6 i1
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termswx SPRING B'O OKS r Among Nineteenth-Century Americans: A Mormon
Example by D. Michael Quinn. This is an academic
Reproducing Land of Women case study of middle America in the nineteenth century
Persons Tales of Sex and Gender t uh na tt il d te hm e o n mst idr -a 1t 9es 5 0 st .h e $ 2 a 9c .9ce 5p t ca ln , c e 0 - 2o 5f 2 -s 0a 2m 20e 5- -s Xex , i Jn ut nim e.acy
f Lro Im SA E a r Mly . Ir e Bla In Td EL about H wo hw a t d o t h ele ys 'b ri ea n d oa in nd g g anay d a tn ht eh r imop po alo ctg i s it ts hf ae se l on
0-8014-3095-X $35.00 cloth their careers? In Out in the Field: Reflections of
5 b&w illus., 5 drawings May Lesbian and Gay Anthropologists edited by Ellen
Lewin and William Leap, contributors write about
I am t p Her oi mal eism t i cnh alte ei r l sl te ucp dte u ir eas slo n oda fil l e m le ex smp be a ir as ni e tn h ac nee ys d a gfn a ad c y e a pb d eo o ou i pnt lg e st .h a ne $ t 1 h 6e rt .9h o 5pi c o a l pl o bg ,a i-nd
Race and Victorian 0-252-06518-2, May.
Women’s Fiction Additional titles of interest: The Lonely Other: A
SUSAN MEYER Woman Watching America, Diana Hume George
0-8014-3132-8 $37.50 cloth ($14.95 pb, 0-252-06534-4, May); Feminism and Social
0-8014-8255-0 $15.95 paper Change: Bridging Theory and Practice edited by Heidi
July Gottfried ($14.95 pb, short discount, 0-252-06495-X); and
The Musical Experience of Five Shoshone Women,
NOW., N PA- PE Ril Judith Vander ($17.95 pb, short discount, 0-252-06545-X,
also: cassette, $9.95, 0252-01531-2, in a set, $24.95, 0-252-
The Real Life of Performing 02256-4, both also short discount).
Mary Ann Evans Women
George Eliot, Her Letters Female Characters,
and Fiction Male Playwrights,
BR OO DES NE HM EIA MR ERIE and the Mode r Gn S Gt Ia Bg SOe UNIV HE erR eS ’sI T oY O frF I O laW A sP onR E tS hS
AY N CIMA ne om st se a at I missed which
70 - b8 &0 w1 4 p- ho8 t1 os8 4 A- p8 ri l $15.95 paper 10 1- 8 b0 &w1 4 i- ll8 u3 s. 3 M7- ay9 $14.95 paper i Hs e aa r t bb eit a t sq : u i Pr ok ey tr ya n d an df u n Pr oa sn ed b p yr o Nvo uc ra st ei sv e e. d B ite et dw e be yn the
Judy Schaefer contains the creative writing by nurses
The Republic Liberty’s which provides a powerful and empathetic outlet for
of Letters Daughters $t 1h 4e . 9 5jo y ps b ,a n 0d - 8 7g 7r 4ie 5f -s 5 1 7o -f 1 . their everyday experiences.
A Cultural History of the The Revolutionary
French Enlightenment Experience of American UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA PRESS
DENA GOODMAN Women, 1750-1800 Still timely despite the U.N. Peacekeeping
0-8014-8174-0 $15.95 paper MARY BETH NORTON forces, Rape Warfare: The Hidden Genocide in
5 b&w illus. Now Available With a New Preface Bosnia- Herzegovina and Croatia by Beverly Allen
by the Author provides firsthand accounts of the rape and torture
To order call 0-8014-8347-6 $16.95 paper of women in the death camps. Not only is the infor-
(800) 666—2211 20 b&w photos April mation presented, but Allen also works to present
or fax (800) 688—2877 analyses and remedies/responses for empathetic
outsiders horrified by genocidal rape. $19.95 c|,
0-8166-2818-1.
Before Madonna, before Marilyn, there was
Mae. In Too Much of a Good Thing: Mae West as
112
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsE
nA I A
i P It
Cultural Icon Ramona Curry presents the interplay
between West's bawdy, worldly persona and twentiethth-
century gender and media politics. It’s an examina-
tion of pop culture as it affects and distills social
issues and controversial political discourse. $19.95
pb, 0-8166-2791-6.
Additional titles of interest: Public History, Private
Bodies: Italian Women’s Autobiography, Graziella
Parati. $17.95 pb, short discount, 0-8166-2607-3, May.
UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA PRESS
Immigrants to California are often thought of as UNIVERSITY PRESS OF KENTUCKY
Asian or Latina, but between 1940-1945, thousands This next book could be an important contribu-
of African Americans migrated from the South to the tion in an election year. Women Politicians and the
East Bay Area. Abiding Courage: African American Media by Maria Braden examines how the media
Migrant Women and the East Bay Community by have influenced “and skewed” public perceptions of
Gretchen Lemke-Santangelo shows how African women seeking national office. She traces double
American women successfully established new standards, the harshness of women reporters on
community institutions and services while holding women candidates, stereotypes and trivializations of
t to ig met eh e r e cf oam noili mes y a .n d Q a ud oju ts et sin g f rto o min d u is ntr ti eal r vw ia er w- s and w coo nm nee cn t i oc nan s,d i d cla ot te hs, i n gco m anm de n ot vs e ro an ll p ae pr ps eo an ra al nit cy e., Bf ra am di el ny
black-and-white photos help to make this book a also traces how women candidates are still viewed as
readable contribution to a slice of women’s social novelties rather than serious and important candi-
histor Ay d. d $ it1 i4 o. n95 al p tb it, le 0 s - 8 o7 f8 - 4 in56 te3 r-9 es. t: Mothers of Inven- d $1at 4e .9s 5 c a pp ba ,b l 0e - 8o 1f 3 1 -o 0f 8f 6ic 9e - 1 ,a n Ad p rs ih l.aping national policy.
tion: Women of the Slaveholding South in the For new writers searching for publication, it has
American Civil War, Drew Gilpin Faust ($29.95 cl, often been the avant-garde journal or little maga-
0-8078-2255-8); and Women Before the Bar: Gender, zines that provided the key to recognition. Women
Law, and Society in Connecticut, 1639-1789, Cornelia Editing Modernism: “Little” Magazines and Liter-
Hughes Dayton ($18.95 pb, 0-8078-4561-2). ary History by Jayne Marek finally gives recognition
Now in paperback: How Am I to Be Heard?: and visibility to seven women in particular who
Letters of Lillian Smith edited by Margaret Rose founded and headed many such publishing ven-
Gladney. $14.95 pb, 0-8078-4580-9. tures, Marianne Moore, H.D. Bryher and Margaret
Anderson among them. It’s an indispensable intro-
duction to the formative influence of women editors
on modern writing. $14.95 pb, 0-8131-0854-3.
UNIVERSITY PRESS OF COLORADO Editor's note: In 18#5, Women Editing Modern-
ism: “Little” Magazines and Literary History by
UPC announces a new Women’s West series Jayne Marek, was inadvertently listed under University
dedicated to broadening the understanding of the ofh Toraontvo Preess . S orrcy aforu anys inecondven.ien ce thOis may
contributions made by women in the American
Volume 18 Number 6 113
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
lesbianism made easy
helen eisenbach
EE
Red Moon P. a :
Lesbianism Made E i Emib
Ths Poni Widi A Hilarious Look Good Girls Don’t Eat Dessert
of Menopause at Lesbian Life Changing Your Relationship
July; 0-517-70386-6 $24.00 June; 0-517-70475-7 $20.00 to Food and Sex
A Haringuy Book Crown May; 0-517-70384-X $22.00
A Harmony Book
Soul Quest
Filled with beautiful art, an
Hear Me Roar innovative guide to inner l
Women, Motorcycles, health and renewed creativity
and the Rapture of the Road June; 0-517-88632-4 $16.00p
June; 0-517-88172-1 $22.50p Crown ‘Trade Paperback
Crown Trade Paperback A Year of Health and Fitness
for Our Bodies and Our Souls
Tò order see your Random House sales May; 0-517-88488-7 $12.00p
representative or call 1-800-733-3000 Crown Trade Paperback [The CROWN PUBLISHING GROUP]
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
il.i al ŠLI 1
Éil. si E : È Y
Compiled by Jenn Tust Transforming the Father Daughter Relationship by
BALLANTINE Maureen Murdock is a guide to help women to make
peace with their fathers. ($11 pb, 0-449-91024-5, Fawcett.)
Without Child: Challenging the Stigma of Moo by Jane Smiley is a very funny novel. ($12 pb,
Childlessness by Laurie Lisle finds that childless 0-449-91023-7, Fawcett.) Ladder of Years by Anne
women have indeed been a part of the historical Tyler is a novel featuring a woman who walks away
continuum, and considers how this choice affects from her husband and family to start a new life. ($12
b 0-o 3t 4h 5 - i 3n 7d 3i 2v 7i -d 8u .al women and the larger world. $23 cl, p Nb a, t i v0 e- 4 4 A9 m-9 e1 r0 ic5 a7 n-1 , W F oa mw ec ne t t T.) e l lM e Ts hse en irg e Sr ts o ro if es t eh de i t eW dind:
Sacred Space: Clearing and Enhancing the by Jane Katz presents young and old women from
Energy of Your Home by Denise Linn draws on the many tribal groups speaking about their lives. ($12
traditions of Native peoples to extend the spiritual life pb, 0-345-40285-5, One World.) —Dorothy Holland
of the places we inhabit. $12 pb, 0-345-39769-X.
bring sT h te o C ar y ss it na gl le S i vn og le ur m eT r i tl ho eg y a d b vy en tA un rn ese oM fc C Ka if lf lar se hy an- l ıl: f
dra Ree: Crystal Singer, Killashandra, and Crystal Line.
$16 pb, 0-345-40292-8. BANTAM
Conversations with Anne Rice by Michael Riley The Burning Time by Carol Matas is a young
i $s 1 a 2 s e r pies b ,o f 0in -te 3r 4vi 5ew -s 3 9wi 6th 3 6 t -hi 7s , i n t Arig pui rn ig l .author. adult novel exploring the injustice against women
during the witch trials of 16th century France. Ages 12
How Men Think: The 7 Essential Rules for and up. $3.99 pb, 0-440-21978-7, Laurel Leaf.
Making It in a Man’s World by Adrienne Mendell is — Dorothy Holland
a handbook for corporate survival for female profes-
sionals. $11 pb, 0-449-90978-6, Fawcett, April. BEACON PRESS
Now in paper: Exit to Eden, Anne Rice writing as New in paper: Meeting the Great Bliss Queen
Anne Rampling, is an early Rice classic, a novel of by Anne Carolyn Klein combines feminist and Bud-
erotic adventure. ($12 pb, 0-345-40196-4.) Reading dhist ideas. $14 pb, 0-8070-7307-5, April.
Ruth: Contemporary Women Reclaim a Sacred Story Always, Rachel: The Letters of Rachel Carson
edited by Judith Kates and Gail Reimer brings and Dorothy Freeman, 1952-1964. These letters
together Jewish novelists, essayists, poets and others reflecting an important friendship are the first auto-
to explore the story of Ruth. ($12.50 pb, 0-345-38032- biographical writings from Carson. $18 pb,
0.) Antarctic Navigation by Elizabeth Arthur is a 0-8070-7011-4.
novel about a woman’s expedition to Antarctica. ($14 New editions: Women Who Kill by Ann Jones
pb, 0-345-40207-3.) A God Who Looks Like Me: is back in print with previously unpublished mate-
Discovering a Woman Affirming Spirituality by rial on the “Battered Women’s Syndrome” ($15.95
Patricia Lynn Reilly finds the feminine face of God. pb, 0-8070-6775-X, July); Womenguides by Rose-
($12 pb, 0-345-40233-2.) Father's Daughters: mary Radford Ruether has a new preface, new ISBN,
Volume 18 Number 6 115
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
new cover, and new lower price ($15 pb, 0-8070- Freedom, Glorious Freedom, the third book by
1235-1, April); Taking a Chance on God has a new John J. McNeill, explores twelve-step programs,
ISBN and price for this exploration of positive gay monogamy, the military, coming out and gay mar-
identity within the Christian church ($14 pb, 0-8070- riage as they relate to lesbian and gay [male]
7945-6, May); the essays in Carnal Acts by Nancy Christians. McNeill was expelled from the Jesuits
Mairs (Voice Lessons and Ordinary Time) were first for his views on lesbian/gay [male] sexuality. $14
published in 1991. Good to have it back again for pb, 0-8070-7937-5, May.
readers recently acquainted with Mairs ($11 pb,
0-8070-7085-8, June).
The poems in White Elephants by Reetika ıl:
Vazirani, the winner of the Barnard New Women
Poets Prize, combine images from her American ado- In Women in the Trees, Susan Koppelman has
lescence and her native India. Introduction by collected women’s short stories about domestic vio-
Marilyn Hacker. $12 pb, 0-8070-6833-0, April. lence written between 1839-1994. Contributors
Transgender Warriors: Making History From include Susan Glaspell (A Jury of Her Peers), Andrea
Joan of Arc to RuPaul by Leslie Feinberg (Stone Dworkin, Zora Neale Hurston, Sonia Sanchez and
Butch Blues) is an illustrated history of “people who others. Sounds like an important collection. $16 pb,
resisted the gender conventions of their day.” 0-8070-6777-6, July.
Feinberg considers herself a gender outlaw and has Typhoid Mary by Judith Walzer Leavitt, a
researched people like herself since adolescence. women’s studies professor at the University of
Although expensive in cloth, there’s nothing else Wisconsin-Madison, tells the story of the maligned
quite like this that I'm aware of, so it’s important to Mary Mallon in terms of the prejudice against women,
have. $27.50 cl, 0-8070-7940-5, May. immigrants and lower classes in early twentieth-century
“If you doubt that the spirit of feminism lives on in the
1990s, read this book.”
—Jeanne Maracek, Swarthmore College
O1CeS of
Feminist therapy was created in the late 1960s, concurrent with
the founding of The Association for Women in Psychology. lts
emın1st e ua nr cl oy n vp er na tc it oi nt aio l n e tr rs a in h inad g , d biv ue tr s ae l l l i hfe adst y al e s c, o mb mack ong r o au nn dd s r, a da in cd al o gf ot ae ln
of providing an alternative therapy for women whose mental
health was still defined in terms of male-pleasing behaviors and
rigid social roles. The contributors share the personal experi-
ences and reflections that helped them revolutionize therapy for
Therapy women, particularly poignant and instructive now, as psycho-
therapy evolves from client-centered and individualistic to
bureaucratic and socially and politically conservative.
Edited by Elizabeth Friar Williams C199l5o t- h13 5p pISBN 3-7186-0603-8 - US$35/ £21/ ECU 27
Paperback ISBN 3-7186-0604-6 - US$19/ £12/ ECU 15
Contributors include: Sarah F Pearlman, Jeanne Adleman, Bar- To order: North/South America: University of Toronto Press, 340 Nagel Drive,
bara E. Sang, Doris Howard, Joan Hamerman Robbins, Elizabeth B Eau sf tf /a Alo f, r icN aY : I1 n4 t2 e2 r5 n- a4 t7 io3 n1 a l- P T ue bl l: i s h(8 e0 r0 s) D5 i6 s5 t- r9 i5 b2 u3 t o rF a x c: / o ( 8 0 P0 O) B22 o1 x- 9 99 08 ,5 R- e aE du inr gop , e / BM eri kdd shle ire,
Friar Williams, Ida P. Truscott, Lee Johnson-Kaufmann, Maria Fadli, RG1 8JL, UK · Tel: +44 (0) 1734 568316 Fax: +44 (0) 1734 568211 - Asia/Australia:
Ann McClenahan, Kayla Weiner, Adrienne J. Smith & Polly Taylor TInetl:e r +n6a5t i o7n4a1l P69u3b3li s hFeaxrs: +D6i5st r7ib41u t o6r9,2 2Kent Ridge, PO Box 1180, Singapore 911106-
harwood academic T ace al dep emho in c e , o n f a x T it o ler N ee t- m aa ti l h ( ti pn :f /o w@ wgb wp .tu ib t. lc eo nm et) . c of mor / Ga B f a os rt e r g o pr hes ep ro :/n /s ge, b . ta in tld e n l eo to .ck o m f .o 6r 5 0 0harwood
March/April 1996
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsTR n B
lal „Jl. iL
New York City. The treatment of Typhoid Mary holds much for her radical politics and love affairs as for her
implications for those of us living in the age of AIDS. art. $23 cl, 0-374-27785-0, August. —Patty Callaghan
$25 cl, 0-8070-2102-4, July. — Patty Callaghan Brigit Books
Brigit Books
HARCOURT BRACE
BERKLEY
Pushing The Bear: A Novel of the Trail of Tears
Love the Body You Were Born With by Monica by Diane Glancy. Glancy’s father is Cherokee and she
Dixon is a workbook for women who want to make wrote this novel after researching her heritage. Many
peace with their bodies. A practical, anti-diet, self- voices from the 1838 Trail of Tears are explored. $22 cl,
empowerment book. $13 pb, 0-399-51975-0, Perigee. 0-15-100225-8, Jūne.
Timelines of American Women’s History by Baba: A Return to China Upon My Father's
Sue Heinemann contains a chronological list of the Shoulders by Belle Yang comes with raves by Amy
women who defied conventions to change the Tan and Maxine Hong Kingston. It is the story of
world, from Deborah Sampson to Jackie Mitchell. Yang's father’s boyhood, so it’s not a woman's story,
Includes profiles and anecdotes. $15 pb, 0-399- per se. Illustrated by the author. $18 pb, 0-15-600239-6.
51986-6, Perigee. Wilma Unlimited: How Wilma Rudolph Became
She Came by the Book by Mary Wings is the the World’s Fastest Woman by Kathleen Kroll is a
third book in the mystery series featuring San Fran- children’s book that looks beautiful. For those of us near
cisco lesbian PI Emma Victor. Rita Mae Brown says the 1996 Olympics in Atlanta, this would be a good
it is “irreverent, fast paced and fun.” Simultaneous book to feature. $16 cl, 0-15-201267-2, April.
cloth/paper release. $9 pb, 0-425-15144-1; $21.95 cl, Now in paper: Between Friends: The Corre-
-15147-6. spońdence of Hannah Arendt and Mary McCarthy
Now in paper: A Different Angle: Fly Fishing 1949-1975, edited by Carol Brightman, “The best two-
Stories by Women edited by Holly Morris sold well sided literary correspondence since Virginia Woolf
for us in Seal Press's cloth edition. $12 pb, 0-425- and Vita Sackville-West’s.” $16 pb, 0-15-600250-7.
15134-4, April. — Dorothy Holland —Linda Bryant
Charis Books & More
FARRAR, STRAUS & GIROUX
Catherwood by Marly Youmans is called a “pow-
erful story of a mother and daughter lost in the
seventeenth century wilderness.” This first novel
sounds intriguing. $20 cl, 0-374-11972-4, May. HARPER SAN FRANCISCO
Feminist Fairy Tales by Barbara G. Walker (The
Know to Adopt a Child Abroad by O. Robin Sweet Women's Encyclopedia of Myths and Secrets, The I Ching
and Patty Bryan. I've included this because the infor- of the Goddess, Women’s Rituals and Amazon, to name
mation may benefit single women who find it difficult a few of her titles), illustrated by Laurie Harden, is
to adopt a child in the U.S. This is a country-by-coun- a collection of 28 fairy tales, some original by the
try guide with government regulations, forms, author and many reworked “classics,” all told with
agencies and general information on traveling a feminist bent. Stories include “The She-Wolf,”
abroad. $15 pb, 0-374-52468-8; $25 cl, -10091-8, May. “Barbidol,” “Cinder-Helle,” and “The Empress’s
Tinisima by Elena Poniatowsk is a novel about Ne2w C5loth1es.” 3Shou1ld 9do v-ery2 we.ll. $2 2 —cl, 0-06J- T
the photographer Tina Modotti who was known as
Volume 18 Number 6 117
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
HOLT
A Big-Enough God: A Feminist’s Search for a
Joyful Theology by Sara Maitland (Ancestral Truths,
Daughter of Jerusalem) who, with a feminist perspec-
s l O S Ú F F .. tive, offers Christians a path for spiritual journey that
encourages belief in a deity that is larger than imagi-
nation. She affirms difference as something desirable
She most excitingly rich and and recognizes that fear has “estranged us from our
complex collection of love poetry world.” $22.50 cl, 0-8050-4183-4. —JT
l’ve ever read.” a
—LOUISE DESALVO, 4i H
author of VIRGINIA WOOLF and
CONCEIVED WITH MALICE NORTHPOINT PRESS
Mothers: Twenty Stories of Contemporary
Motherhood edited by Katrina Kenison and Kathleen
Hirsch will be published in time for Mother’s Day.
With contributors such -as Barbara Kingsolver and
Sue Miller, this will make a great gift. $22 cl, 0-86547-
498-2, May. —Patty Callaghan
Brigit Books
PUTNAM
A must-have is Firestorm, the newest Nevada
Barr mystery. This time, park ranger Anna Pigeon is on
a wildfire flare-up in Lassen Volcanic National Park, in
the remote wilderness of Northern California. My
galley copy of this has been read by so many women,
I can't count them all — and everyone said it’s another
good read by Barr. $22.95 cl, 0-399-14126-X.
Mary Pipher, the author of Reviving Ophelia, turns
her attention to families of today — The Shelter of
Each Other looks at how we've changed, and how we
can remake our families. $24.95 cl, 0-399-14144-8,
April, Grosset. Reading group guides available, free,
0-399-19331-6.
his is more than a collection of Old W T oh re l d M Ta rr aia d i tP ioar na sd o Wx: i t hH o w N e wLa t Win oas r l dC a Sn e l fM -Eer stg ee em
poetry—this is the lesbian lyric, the by Rosa Maria Gil and Carmen Inoa Vazquez shows
ballad/chant of the deepest feelings how to combine Hispanic women’s traditional social
values with feminist ideas of equality to create a
one woman can have for another.” healthy sense of self-esteem. In English, $22.95 pb,
—SUSIE BRIGHT 0-399-14159-6; in Spanish, $16.95 pb, -14172-3, April.
S B, Keep an eye out for Patricia Cornwell's next mys-
zé VÚ, i§ t $e2r5y.,9 5 C acul,s e 0 -o3f9 9 D-1e4at1h4,6 - 4a,g a iJnu l yfe.aturing Kay Scarpetta.
4 Op S Bloody Waters by Carolina Garcia-Aguilera is a
new mystery series featuring Cuban American
March/April 1996 118 Volume 18 Number 6
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News.
pii li.l:. lal JlI |
woman PI Lupe Solano. The author has been a PI in Sister Feelgood: A Year of Health and Fitness
Miami for ten years, and should know whereof she for Our Bodies and Our Souls by Donna Marie
writes. $21.95 cl, 0-399-14157-X. Williams has 365 affirmations, meditations and visu-
—Dorothy Holland alizations designed to help Black women attain
health and fitness. Looks like it’s about self-love, not
I found three kids’ titles that sound worth a try. about diets, but I haven’t seen it yet. $12 pb, 0-517-
Valor, the heroine in Mountain Valor by Gloria 88 488 7 , May.
Houston, defends her home against raiding soldiers
and enters the Civil War disguised as a boy. ($4.95 pb,
0-698-11383-7, Paperstar, May.) The Shimmershine
Queens by Camille Yarbrough. ($4.95 pb, 0-698-
11369-1, Paperstar, June.) Irrepressible Spirit: A Gift For Healing: How You Can Use Thera-
Conversations with Human Rights Activists, writ- peutic Touch by Deborah Cowens with Tom Monte
ten and photographed by Susan Kuklin, tackles gives instructions for the lay person, written by a
human rights (ages 11 and up). ($9.95 pb, 0-399- nurse. $17 pb, 0-517-88651-0, June.
23045-9; $17.95 cl, -22762-8, Putnam, April.) The Book of Eros: Arts and Letters From
Do C y Ho Yellow Silk edited by Lily Pond and Richard Russo
looks largely hetero and is written by men and
women, but if you include such titles in your sexu-
ality section, this might work. $12 pb;
0-517-88612-X, June.
RH-Crown ‘Soulquest: A Healing Journey for Women of
A Queer Geography: Journeys Toward a Sexual the African Diaspora by Denese Shervington and
Self by Frank Browning (Culture Of Desire) is defi- Billie Jean Pace looks like a beautiful book of
nitely a boy's book, but if you do queer studies, this self-discovery through art and words, and inspires
one looks at how gay (male) identity develops and journal writing, visualization, etc. acknowledging
expresses itself in different parts of the world. $24 cl, that women of color must deal with both internal
0-517-59857-4, April. and external oppressions. $16 pb, 0-517-88632-4,
Lesbianism Made Easy by Helen Eisenbach, May.
the new editor-in-chief at Alyson is billed as humor. Red Moon Passage: The Power and Wisdom of
Looks very funny and fun. $18 cl, 0-517-70475-7, Menopause by Bonnie Horrigan looks like a wonder-
April. ful, spiritual, multicultural collection of interviews
Aromatheraphy For Scentual Awareness: Care with women who look at menopause and creation.
For the Body and Mind With Nature’s Essential $24 cl, 0-517-70386-6, July.
Oils by J. White and K. Day. If you do a health Good Girls Don’t Eat Dessert: Changing Your
section, these books have been selling for us. $14 pb, Relationship to Food and Sex by Rosalyn Meadow
0-517-88666-9, May. and Lillie Weiss. Basic theme is that women are
Hear Me Roar: Women Motorcyles and the repressing their fundamental needs in order to be
Rapture of the Road by Ann Ferra is full of stories loved. Originally published under the title Women’s
and photos of women and their wheels — not a Conflicts About Eating and Sexuality. $22 cl, 0-517-
dyke book, but a bike book. $22.50 pb, 0-517-88172- 70384-X, May. —Linda Bryant
1, May. Charis Books & More
Volume 18 Number 6 119
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
MLuOsOtNa
has returned.
& HarperPrism
An Imprint of HarperPaperbacks
RH-Knopf child, who is found, in a deep way, by a young,
I Was Amelia Earhart: A Novel by Jane Mendel- courageous Black woman teacher, who makes
ws to heh il sln a ii sss lma ik e emf ,i c o t rri eio e an s ll a y l o . f a $c 1c E 8o a u r n h clt a , r t o 0’sf - 6 p 7E 9aa s -r t 4h . 5 a 0 r D 5t o 4’s n - 8’ t ,l a s k At n p o rf w il li . g h wt h, a tas P 0re -c 6io 7us 9 -le 4ar 4n 6 t 2o 6 r -e 5ad ,, w Jri ute n, ean . d —save L ih n Ce hr ds ae ral if s . BB$ o2 or0 k y sc l a, &n Mt ore
RH-Shambhala
4il; Dancing in the Flames: The Dark Goddess in
the Transformation of Consciousness by Marion
Push by Sapphire promises to be an amazing Woodman and Elinor Dickson looks at the presence of
book. Also coming out as an audiobook, read by the the Dark Goddess in cultures around the world and
author, who is a fabulous reader. The catalogue calls her repression in the modern West, and explores our
it “electrifying” — I think it will be devastating and need to reclaim Her on a global level to heal ourselves
wonderful, like Morrison’s The Bluest Eye. Push tells and our world. $23 cl, 1-57062-199-3, April.
the story of Precious, pregnant again with her father’s Getting Our Bodies Back: Recovery, Healing,
March/April 1996 120
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
pil. s]l + È
and Transformation Through Body-Centered by Richard Ekins and David King looks decent for
Psychotherapy by Christine Caldwell gives practical any store that has a gender section that appeals to
exercises for using body psychotherapy to overcome more than just academics. $17.95 pb, 0-415-11552-3;
addictive behavior. $14 pb, 1-57062-149-7, April. $65 cl, -11551-5.
Visions and Longings: Medieval Women Puberty, Sexuality and the Self: Gender
Mystics edited by Monica Furlong portrays Christian Differences at Adolescence by Karin Martin, who
mystics living between the 11th and 14th centuries. does research on gender and sexuality of children
Lòts of interest in these women today, especially and adolescents, claims here, that the by-now-well-
Hildegard of Bingen. $18 cl, 1-57062-125-X, June. documented drop in girls’ self-esteem at puberty is
Secrets of God: Writings of Hildegard of due not to imbalances in the educational system but,
Bingen, selected by Sabina Flanagan, offers a brief bio in fact, to different experiences of puberty and sex.
and selections from some of Hildegard’s works, Should work well alongside Carol Gilligan’s and
including natural medicine, cosmology, songs and Mary Pipher’s works. $16.95 pb, 0-415-91425-6; $55
poetry. $14 pb, 1-57062-164-0, July. —Linda Bryant c], -91424-8.
Char 18 Books & More
April Titles
The Price You Pay: The Hidden Cost of Women’s
Relationship to Money by Margaret Randall. Includ-
ing a great diversity of women’s voices, Randall offers
RH-Shocken, Pantheon a feminist analysis of women and money. As a small
Becoming Gay: The Journey to Self-Acceptance business owner constantly struggling with money, I'm
by Richard Isay is another boy book, but good for a eager to read this. Ask your rep (and do ask for a rep if
queer studies section on the psychological develop- you order a substantial number of RCH titles) for a
ment of gay men. $23 cl, 0-679-42159-9, June. reading copy to share with the staff. I can’t help but
First Comes Love by Marion Winik is this NPR think that the clearer we each get about money, the more
commentator’s book about her love and marriage to successful our businesses will be. $16.95 pb, 0-415-
a gay man, and his subsequent death from AIDS. 91204-0; $59.95 cl, -91203-2.
Sounds powerful and positive in a painful sort of way. If you're in a university town with a strong edu-
$23 cl, 0-679-44572-2, April —Linda Bryant cation department that supports your store, be sure to
Charis Books & More pick up a few copies of Henry Giroux’ new title:
ROUTLEDGE - Fugitive Cultures: Race, Violence and Youth. $16.95
pb, 0-415-91578-3; $59.95 cl, -91577-5.
Practising Feminism: Identity, Difference &
Power edited by Felicia Hughes-Freeland and Nickie May Titles
Charles. Coming out of England, this anthology If you have a section on race, there is a great
works the neglected middle ground between post- movement toward analyzing whiteness. In Race
modern deconstructions of difference and identity Traitor, editors Noel Ignatiev and John Garvey have
and continued feminist concerns with grounded collected essays analyzing the forces that hold the
power relations and the validity of experience. OK for white race together, pointing out that when a critical
university towns where folks are open to British mass of people who look white undergo a fission, a
theory. $17.95 pb, 0-415-11109-9; $59.95 cl, -11108-0. new human community can begin to be built. $16.95
Also from England, Blending Genders edited pb, 0-415-91393-4; $59.95 cl, -91392-6.
Volume 18 Number 6
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Outside Belongings: Disciplines, Nations, and Feminism and Ancient Philosophy by Julie Ward
the Place of Sex by Elspeth Probyn. From Australia, connects classical studies with feminism, providing an
this is a bold articulation of a thinker at the frontiers assessment of the ancient philosophers’ discussions of
of cultural and queer studies. $16.95 pb, 0-415-915848; women. $17.95 pb, 0-415-91602-X; $59.95 cl, -91601-1.
$59.95 cl, -91583-X.
If you sell plays, get at least one copy of Modern ıl:
Drama by Women 1880s-1930s: An International An-
thology edited by Katherine Kelly. This text promises
to “incite a major reappraisal of...women playwrights Women and Politics in the Third World by
in the creation of modern drama.” $22.95 pb, 0-415- Haleh Ashfar. According to the catalog, Ashfar “pro-
12494-8; $65 cl, -12493-X. vides a feminist analytical perspective on the specific
If literary criticism sells for you, Lizbeth Good- forms of resistance, organization and negotiation by
man’s Literature and Gender is one to pick up, women in Third World states.” $19.95 pb, 0-415-
includes analyses of poetry, prose and drama. $19.95 13861-2; $59.95 cl, -13853-1. —Mary Ellen Kavanaugh
pb, 0-415-13574-5; $65 cl, -13573-7. My Sisters’ Words O
BOOKS
Anne E. Patrick
176 pp 0-8264-0891-5 $22.95 hbd
Christine Downing Patricia Reis
THE GODDESS DAUGHTERS OF SATURN
Mythological Images of the Feminine From Father’s Daughter to Creative Women
“Reis shows a unique model for the feminine creative process,
grounded through personal experience, mythology, literature,
w “Hid ige h ll yea r rn ei cn og m.” m— e n T dh ede .” J o —ur n La il b r o af r y A Jn oal uy rt nic alal Psychology a —nd c Lon INtem Dp Aor a r Ly E w Oo Nme An’ Rs Dst o r =ie s 2an 8d 8 d r pea pm s .” 0-8264-0893-1 $15.95 pbk
252 pp 0-8264-0917-2 $12.95 pbk
Josephine Donovan and Carol J. Adams, Editors
Marla J. Selvidge, Editor BEYOND ANIMAL RIGHTS
A NOTORIOUS VOICES READER A Feminist Caring Ethic for the Treatment of Animals
Feminist Biblical Criticism, 1500-1920 The first book to extend feminist-care theory to the treatment of
animals. “A valuable addition to the genre.”
— Publishers Weekly
primary material for class discussion or research. 228 pp 0-8264-0836-2 $24.95 hbd
256 pp 0-8264-0916-4 $29.95 hbd
At your bookstore or call 800-937-5557
March/April 1996 122
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
ASM BOOKS. a 88 MS. Magazine... 2... 52
Alamo Square Distributors ............... 96 Naiad Press... aa 76
Arte Público: Press... s.. 98
Audio: BOOkshelf 56 New Directions Publishing ............... 14
Bantams at 48,74 New Victoria Publishers. ................…: 90
Beacon Press... 4 New- World.Library L... e 19
New York University Press .............. 106
Berkley Publishing,Group ......... 46 PaPpieer-nMacghe u Priesns ..... .... ...6.....2.... 36
Bookpeople/Wingbow....... u... 100
“C Ca hly ax x - B PO rO esK sS .S Ni J eA 1 A 0 2 20 Penn State University Press ............. 110
Press Gang Publishers ................... 86
C Ch oro nn aic rle i B o Po rks e s = s. e .= .. . 1 5 2 Rising Tide Press... e a h 82
SCTIDNEr 3.. n as aNG 118
CONtinuUmMm 122 Seal Press 7... a n a 28
Cornell UniVersity Press ............:.... 112 SecOnd Story Press .. 2... 26
Crossing Press =.. NN C1 Spinifex Press... 80
CTOWIL 205 a 114 Spinsters Ink =... C3
A Different Light... 8 Taylor & Francis ..... 67
Firebrand BOOks,.. o. s 32 Temple University Press... ..........: 104
BYNETBY BOOKS Aee e C2 Third Side Press... .... 84
Goldenrod /Horizon Distribution .......... 69 Tor/Forge BOOKS 2...3... 0... 50
HarperPrism.. os.. = sa 120 Traveler's Tales... ... o. iae 40
Harwoòd Academic... a... ....... 116 Trilogy. BOOKS.. sd a 94
HohmBress:. s a 99
HyKperotexet Pnubl ish insg <.. . 264 U Un ni iv ve er rs si it ty y o of f C Mh inic na eg so o t aP r e Ps rs e s . s. .. . .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . . ..1 0 49 4
ViKINS. 1 e AS aa dr 10
Ladyslipper =... u 63 WestVieW Press: 4... 2. 64
Little SISters... 25
Women’s Press /Canada! 9... ... r...) 16
Raves, continued from page 53. Westview Press (available from HarperCollins).
presence of destruction. Join them in Solar Storms by Work with your rep to make sure you're getting 40%
Linda Hogar, for a trip that may save your soul. $22 on these titles since the HC computer seems to want
cl, Simon & Schuster. —Mary Morell to give a smaller discount. —Mary Ellen Kavanaugh
Full Circle Books, Albuquerque NM My Sisters’ Words, Syracuse NY
Feminism’: The Third Generation in Fiction. I highly recommend Alternatives for Women
Our own Irene Zahava (owner of the now defunct with Endometriosis: A Guide by Women for Women
Smedley’s in Ithaca) has once again done a brilliant edited by Ruth Carol. The information includes ho-
editing job. In here are compiled short stories by meopathy, chiropractic, herbalism, acupuncture and
some of the most exciting young voices we have — more. It has a support group kind of feeling, with
Edwidge Danticat, Esmerelda Santiago, April many different women describing their experiences
Sinclair, Banana Yoshimoto, Shay Youngblood and with alternative ways of dealing with endo. $12.95 pb,
more. Count on this to be a classic. $18 pb, $60 cl, Third Side Press. — Dorothy Holland O
Volume 18 Number 6 123
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
SIDELINES lesbian, gay, feminist and progressive media. Strong
writing and personal communications skills essential.
Send letter and résumé to Felice Newman, Publisher,
Positive Notecards For Women. Joyously illustrated Cleis Press, PO Box 8933 Pittsburgh PA 15221.
with florals, herbs, cats, moons, stars, celestials.... Neat
Stuff! Womari owned and operated. Experience the
notecards women across the country can’t stop talking Project Manager needed to coordinate all aspects of
about! For color catalog and sample notecard contact: the 1996 FB-Network Catalog. Send résumé to FBN,
Emmanuel Publishing, PO Box 212534-T, Columbia PO Box 882554, San Francisco CA 94188.
SC 29221; 803-798-8903.
LESBIAN AND GAY SCI-FI
MUSIC DISTRIBUTION
Lesbian & Gay Science Fiction. Thanks to reader
Ladyslipper Music — the oldest national distribu- support for our inclusion of differently-abled, racial,
tor specializing in recordings by women — invites ethnic and sexuality minorities in Obelesk Books
you to join us in celebrating our 20th anniversary in science fiction chapbooks, we have formed a new
1996! All genres, including feminist, lesbian /gay, imprint, Triangle Titles, to publish chapbooks of
women’s spirituality, international, alternative, interest to gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgendered
folk, classical, spoken, and children’s music, plus readers. Winter of the Soul: Gay Vampire Fiction; Cyber
s won hg ob lo eo sk as, l e v /i rde eo ts a ia ln d c am to ar le o. g F o or f f r oee v ea rnn o 1ta 5t 0ed 0 CD and M Saa ng i c Fk r: a n L ce iss cb oia , n o rS F . f r A omva i l Oab bl ee l e st kh r o Bu og oh k s ,A l Da em po t FSq , u a Pr Oe,
c 3a 5ss 2e 5tt ,e t Pi Otle s : B p oh xo n e 3 1 8 20 40- ,6 3 4 D-6 u0 r4 h4, a mfa x N91 C9 -3 8 23 7- 715; e-mail B seo nx d 1 S1 A18 S, E . Elkton MD 21922. For illustrated catalog,
ladyslip@nando.net.
ABORTION INFORMATION
Goldenrod Distribution/Horizon Distribution.
Wholesale distributors of women’s music, gay men’s Performing Abortion Safely! Bibliography of
music, riot grrrls music and more for 21 years. Fast information on Menstrual Extraction, herbal and vita-
service (most orders shipped same day), knowledge- min abortion, the “morning-after” pill, etc. Now is the
able sales staff, free promo copies for in-store play and time to educate yourself. $5 and SASE to: Autonomy,
display material provided (when available). Call 517- PO Box 591, Chilmark MA 02535.
484-1712, fax 517-484-1771, e-mail GRDIST@aol.com.
FBN Classified Ads — $10 for first 50 words, 15
MARKETING DIRECTOR WANTED cents per word after that. 25% discount for 3+
insertions paid at one time. Payment must accom-
Cleis Press is looking for an energetic, articulate indi- pany ad. Send to FBN, PO Box 882554, San Fran-
vidual with a background in either bookselling or cisco, CA 94188.
book publishing. Must be familiar with current
March/April 1996 124 Volume 18 Number 6
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsМаппу-Мас”ѕ Саї То Ѕаррһо, Му Ѕїѕїег
Аппе Гоџіѕе МасОопаЇй еѕБіап Ѕіѕіегз Меиііе АБоці Тһеіг Пмеѕ
Шыѕігаїей Бу
Магіе Гаігапсе ее Нетіпд (ед.)
“А роідпапі ѕіогу аБоуі “А #егсе, ргоїоипа геасі." Тһе Адуосаіе
соріпд мй сһапде апа Ё
_оуегсотіпо Теагз ...
Тһеге'ѕ ріІеліу ої саі БооКѕ ГеѕБіат Рагепіїпо
Мо Ьі га ес Њ е“ 9 е .”Сг е а , ѓ О о Б ї йзо ї &а М ѕ Оа уп џрп іе гу ег- іог Ш Кміп ао ћ мл еіһ г Р ігі піе е & Рг Аејиє гііс ле ир (еі.) :
Аргі! 1996 • І5ВМ0-921556-54-3 • $5.95 “Ап ітргеѕѕіуе аггау ої еѕѕауѕ.” ГатЬаа ВооК Верогі
15ВМ 0-971881-33-9 • $19.95 / $16.95 15.
Асгоѕѕ Вогаіег5
Мотел мї ВіѕаБініез Раепі № Моге
Могкіпд Тодеіһег Тһе РоЇісѕ оЁ Вгеаѕі Сапсег
Оіапе Огіейдег, Ігепе Реіка, Ѕһагоп Вай
ееп бігбп Ваігез (еб5.) Весіріепі оёіће 1995 Гаийга Јатіеѕоп Амагаі Ғог Беѕі
Тһе мотел мі аіѕаЫніез Ғетіпіѕі поп-Ясііоп БооК, ѕропѕогеЧ Бу іе Сападіап
тоуетепі іѕ аі е Тогеїгопі ої Кеѕеагсһ Іпзѕіїїиїе Ғог те Адуапсетепі оғ УУотеп.
рагіпегѕһір апа соорегаіоп . 15В№ 0-921881-30-4 • $19.95 / $16.95 1.5.
іпіегпайопау. Асгоѕз Вогаіегэ. |
с ро от їйБ іі сп ае іѕ ар скег уѕ іо зп та ! і пѕ Ї о аг сі се оѕ у пу іі є | оё Кеа Ѕіѕїег5
ЧеуєІортепі ргојесіѕ гот Ѕиѕап Мгідһі
агоипа Ње уогіа. иѕігаїей Бу Во-Кіт Гошіе
Мау 1996 • 58№(0-921881-38-Х • $16.95 $14.95 1.5.
адор оп Тог уоопдег сһіі4геп.
ЅКіппу Вірріпо 15ВМ 0-921556-42-Х • $5.95
Магіап Егапсез Мһіїе
Тһе ѕепѕиа!, е ѕехоаі апа
ће сиІига! роейісаіу епіуіпесі
мї Еаѕі Соаѕі һотоыг апа
У! таке ЅКіппу Оірріпо ігге-
зіѕЫе. Неге’ а эотап'з Рһопе (902) 566-5750 КАСМИЕЕО
ЬооК оѓ роеігу. _ Рах (902) 566-4473 – дупегду
е-таі! аЬ дупегду. сот Боск;
Арп! 1996 • 15ВМ№ 0-921881-39-8
912.95 / $10.95 5. дупегду Боокѕ/Вадмее Ргеѕз із 4іѕітБоїе іп е
УЗА Бу ІпВооК/Годіп РоЫієһегз Сопзѕогіїшт апа іп
Сапада Бу Сепега! ОіѕігіБиїїоп Зегуісез.
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsGoodness
Martha Roth :
ISBN 1-883523-11-7 $10.95 (Pub. date May 1996)
Goodness brings us into a close-knit community of feminist peace
activists, whose coming of age in the 1960s profoundly shapes the
rest of their lives. The evolving relationships between friends and
lovers, women and women, women and men, and mothers and
their children are woven into a story of pain and discovery, of
raising families and holding demonstrations, of fighting to change
the world during an era of intense social upheaval, and of trying to
maintain the idealism of the 60s without succumbing to the
cynicism of later years. Goodness is a must-read for anyone who
participated in the idealistic turmoil of the 60s—ər wishes they had.
Roberts' Rules of Lesbian Living
Shelly Roberts
ISBN 1-883523-09-5 $5.95 (Pub. date May 1996)
Shelly Roberts, lesbian humor columnist and author of The
Dyke Detector and Hey Mom, Guess What!, brings her wit,
wisdom, and wonderfully skewed perspective to a little lesbian
life-instruction book filled with snappy, irreverent witticisms poking fun at most of the issues
plaguing lesbians: lovers ("After six months, all lesbian couples walk alike. It's a 1law.”), kids,
parents, dating, breaking up ("There's no such thing as lesbian divorce. There is only thermo-
nuclear war. And then best friends."), stereotypes, food ("Contrary to popular opinion, tofu is
not a food.”), haircuts, therapy ("The term 'Lesbian Therapist' is redundant."), sex, and
community ("According to the Lesbian Book of World Records, if we moved out of New York
Cnityo tan d aW as hcinogtnont, r D.aC.d, itchety'ido bne e mipnty. ") . t Seherllym Rsob.e"rts proves that "Lesbian Humor is
Distributed by Login Publishers Consortium/InBook (800) 243-0138
Spinsters Ink
32 East First Street, Duluth, MN 55802
(218) 727-3222
Check out the new Spinsters Ink Web Site! http://www.lesbian.org/spinsters-ink/
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)74.108.41.47 on Thu, 28 Mar 2024 01:26:25 +00:00(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms