Feminist
Bookstore
News Hilvilzhh
i
The University Press Issue
February 1992 Volume 14 Number 5
Femina Serial am F32973 3/6/92
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:00:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms1
L :
Love
L NA
O ARAR a
A CS Stein T RAAL DIANA SOUHAMI
the two companions ate and wore and
howA they tr eateEd eacLh othEer.LE
aTM EKKA
AISN eA u N N a y P an deoer a e
IBIU Aaiaoe ulie ee
Also available from SESO O Ltd.
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:00:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
NOTES FROM
THE
O00000
Welcome to FBN’s Sixth Annual University Press would have threatened several of their sections. On
issue. This issue is rich with news about the Athene page 21 we've reprinted an article that two Texan
Series’ new home, an update on the NYU Press Les- booksellers published in their local paper in response
bian Life and Literature Series, Ann Christopherson’s to San Angelo’s “Anti-Pornography” Week.
insights on ordering from University Presses, a tale of
setting up a Lesbian and Gay section in a University As our contribution to getting through the Febru-
Bookstore, and everything you need to know to go ary “blahs” we’re making this our FBN cartoon issue.
“on-line” and tune into the Women’s Studies E-Mail
conversations (and maybe promote a few books and T toh a n Dk ias n et o D ie Mv ae sr sy a o n (oe f w Hh oo t h c eo an d t r Pib aiu st ae nd , f aa mnd e) e fs op re c i ta hll ey
pick up some new customers, too). We've augmented illustrations that accompany the article about Inland’s
all this with University Press Bestsellers lists from 10th(!) anniversary.
around the country and a handful of “short raves”
bdoesockrsi b ionfg t ha e f emwo m beonotk.sellers’ favorite university press Next issue will see the debut of our “Question
and Answer” series. Well, actually, the question
Firebr W ane d' ’v se “ a Als o M t oa dk ee stn Pt rh oe p ol si ab le ”r t (y w h o if ch r e wp ir llo d au lc si on g run debuted two issues ago and the answers will appear
in The Women’s Review of Books University Press Issue).
t(S ae ke e n p a wge it h 4 0 N.) a nH ce yr ’e s i en le g t ah ne t l yF B uN n do ef rf si tc ae t e dw e i'v de e a . b e Wen e 'v v eery FBN
been imagining (as I'm sure we're meant to) what
would happen if every women’s studies course used
one (or several) titles from women’s presses and we Deadlines
come up with visions of radicalized student bodies in
the 1990s complemented by financial stability for all
of the feminist presses. And that’s just a beginning!
How can we, as a feminist publishing and bookselling Spring Announcements
community, pass this vision on to all of the women’s
studies teachers? This is a conversation I'd like to see March/April Issue
in FBN’s pages, everywhere at ABA, and maybe on
e-mail (see above) as well. The “Women’s Studies February 18
Teachers’ Tea,” outlined by the 31st Street Bookstore
in next issue's “Taking Care of Business” column,
strikes us as an opportunity to do. some of that con- ABA Special Issue
sciousness raising. May/June 1992
This issue also includes both reactive and proac-
tive bookstore confrontations with the forces of cen-
sorship. See Bookstore News for the Alaska Women’s April 6
Bookstore’s tangle with a local city ordinance that
Volume 14 Number 5
January/February 1992
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:00:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
in the the next issue. Next issue will also see the return I've long had a dream of providing FBN readers
of Canadian Content, thanks to a coup by Mid- Cana- with an elegant, up-to-the-minute index of all books
dian feminist booksellers. a 1n 9n 90o u n wc ee d s hi in f t eF dB N a l la n od f n oo uw r dw ae t' ar -e b aw see l l w oo rn k t th oe Pw aa ry ad. o xIn .
Speaking of columns, FBN is also looking for a
n we hw e lm M ey d s t wer itie hs ec xo tlu enm dn ei ds -t f. a mM ia lr yy 's c o mfe mel ii tn mg e na t sb i t a n do v e ir s- I on u t t h tee a rp -r shoc ee es ts s, (w we h i ce hx p a gn od e td o t ah lle os fy s t te hm e pW ube l i su hs ee r st o w hse ond
have books in each issue) to include room for every
r be ua fd fy / S it so t e rp a s is n t Ch re i m c eo .l u Cm an ll o mn e t io f t yh oe u 'rn ee x it n tm ery es st te er dy or b vo oo luk m eb y a ne da c h is s p uu e b l nis uh mer b, e r a s — w e al nl d a s t h t eh e a u tp hag ore n anu dm b te hr e,
are willing to have your arm twisted! section in which the announcement ran. Under the old
Yes, FBN has once again reserved a block of system we tracked only the first book by each pub-
rooms at a motel within walking distance of this lisher and its page number, so this new system Was-
y shea or u’ ls d A hB aA ve c ro en av ce hn et di o n y o uin b A yn a th he ei m t. i m F eu l l t h d ise t a ii sl ss ue makes q f au naii dtt he f s oua n l l ny oe wx ep n , a t n e Vs r oi io in ln ag. ! I e wt a' c es h ha ab volo eot k a o ncf o v I nw er do e er d xk f fb o ou r rt t 1w h 9e 9e 1'v le a ( s V tb 1 e 3e y #n e 5ar,
i w bt o a o yt k h s r ef lo o lu r eg r sh F / e m t fh i ee n m i s ip t nr i i sBn tot e o pr k u s bta o ln ir sd e h s e t r h D s e a y d (m is n)a n i el a. rn d P al sa f n os wr e a la lr .e f T eu hmn ed ine ir st to V14# 4 M). ore or less. More, actually. The current version
women at A Different Drummer are setting up the runs to 30 pages with about 2,000 books listed — some
more than once, however. We're still in the experimen-
s op ra gc ae n i za en d t h t eh e p rf oo go rd a, m b u ft o r w te h es t i dll i n nn ee red . Cs ao lm l e mon ee ifto you're tal stage — and we've learned some things along the
interested or willing. way — for instance, not to enter book titles in all
capitals. They're too hard to read in small print. (We
only did that with the books from V13#5.) We also
learned that our version of Paradox is set up to “alpha-
Announcing betize” in ASCII order, rather than traditional alpha-
betical order. And then there are the odd spelling
errors, the missing authors, the issues where we listed
FBN'’s First Ever | every title in columns like Back to Press, and then
there are the later issues where we decided to focus
Index only on the actual book reviews and announcements.
It's, wel], a first index and it has its irregularities but
we use it often and think that it might be useful to
Sure, I'd like a copy of FBN's First Index |
some of you as well.
(V13#5 to V14#4) covering (almost) all Some day we may get this down to an exact
of the books announced in FBN in 1991. science and find an extra $2000 or so a year to print an
annual index in FBN, but we don’t see it happening
____ Sendindexby Title $10 soon. So we'll print copies on our laser printer on an
“as requested basis” for $10/per copy. The indexes are
____ Send index by Author $10 in alphabetical order (more or less) by title. We can
Please wait to send until V14#5 also print indexes by author for another $10. These
is available, t00. indexes will include all of the books reviewed or an-
nounced in FBN in 1991 (V13#5 through V14#4) and
Name: will include this issue (V14#5) as wel], if we get the
Address:
your order until V14#5 is ready, be sure to tell us. Use
City/State/Zip: the handy (attached) order form.
Make checks out to FBN. An additional $5 billing Yours in spreading the words,
charge will be added to all orders not prepaid. Carol Seajay
January/February 1992
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:00:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
FBN CONTENTS
Editor & Publisher
Garol Seajay UNIVERSITY PRESSES
Golumnists Lesbian/Gay Section in a University Bookstore . . .29
Art Books Tee Corinne Teachers College Press Buys Athene Series . . . .31
Canadian Books NEC Penny Goldsmith NYU Press: “The Cutting Edge”... ...... 33
Gay Men’s Literature Ed Hermance Buying University Press Books =.: 35
Mainstream Publishers Sandi Torkildson SAModest Proposa 40
Mysteries Mary Lowry Women’s Studies by E-Mail ..........., 41
Science Fiction Susanna Sturgis Favorite University Press Titles of the Moment . . . 43
University Presses Ann Christopherson | Ap Suppressing Feminist Dissent? . ........ 46
Young Adult Books Christine Jenkins University Press Bestsellers.. .......... 47
Usean ARTICLES
P NOWS/ShO SIONGS 1... 9
Editorial Assistant National Lesbian/Gay Book Month • Seal Press Turns 15 •
Ann Morse Grier/McBride 20th Anniversary • Falmer Press Launches Lists •
S i Gay Sexin Print • Saying 'No' to Sexual Harassment • Publishing
Advert isCini l /lP r oJduacntioenw Taryian g leD e• p Otpesn. Le•t t eWrs i• p Fleamsinhar i a A • w Inalarndd s& InBook Merge Order
Proofreading News From the Bookstores . . . .......... 15
Pat Kelso Texas Booksellers Protest Anti-Censorship Week .21
Feminist Bookstore H aNppeyw sB ir tih d,ay, Inland =. = 0... 23
456 14th Street Suite 6 Going with the (Cash) Flow: Nett Hart . . ...... 55
PO Box 882554 DEPARTMENTS
San Francisco CA 94188 Advertisingilndexs: . . U 111
415-626-1556 FAX: 626-8970 AnNnouncemenis eesi 54
FEMINIST BOOKSTORE NEWS is the communications | Back to Press & Other Good News . ........ 59
FvBeNh i crleeac h feso r 3 5 0t h fee m iinnifsot r amnda l f enmeitnwisot-rinkc l inoefd fbeoomk-i n EisAtA bSoNoSk Ss t oMrUeSs . t B aeas tNsellers 69
ssetlolerres s in i n E n gflhaned , U ESu.r o ,a n ,d A uCsatnraalidaa, Naesw w Zeeall a na s F n tn . oak Classified Ads 00. 112
India and Japan L iDrartane, women's studies teachers, Subscr iption IRÍOrmatión a 108
book reviewers, publishers and feminist bibliophiles They Went That-A-Way Saa SSAI 63
Lcetotemrs,p arrtiisclees , ntehwse it ermes m anad i nandnoeunrc em oenfts sthohuled HsIRuAb AsMcrSTiAb eS r Ts .E Trivia 51
be received the tenth of the month preceding publication. Writing Wanted... . aus ea 61
Siganed u articltes anhd letteors arre the s resp.on sibili ty Tof theHE BOOKS
FEMINIST BOOKSTORE NEWS (ISSN: 0741-6555 is
published bi-monthly in Januar, March, May, guy | AM BOOKS . N S 3
Seplem abt e r4,5 6a n 1d4 t Nh o vSetmrebeetr S buiyt e N 6N, S S aBnO O FKrSa n TciOscRos, Ba'oirder Crossing: Books in Canada . ........ 71
g FFa E i r :M a0 In:3 N , Ic SP iS Tl se e cc aBo osn Oe ,d O . KCs Ci Sea TAns Osd R P E 9o a s 4dNt 1da Eg 8rWee 8 S s -p ,s 2a i P5dcO 5h 4a at B.n o g xSa Oe ns8U 8 F 2rt5ro 5a n 4 O,ci i Ws SoRa, n NO G W Oa y nP r nM Peeue sdbn S l' i S 8ss h8 rL e% ri t ste . s r R a t .o eu w .r, se . 9.. 9 8 7 15
SUBSCRIPTIONS: $60/yr/G issues, $115/2 years. Plus | Science Fiction .................,.. 77
$9/yr Canadian postage; $19/yr for overseas postage. The Small Presses. e 89
Volume 14 Number 5 3 January/February 1992
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:00:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Íx mucan
aiin Sre " Aife N
dionne brand
and the immigrant W owmitehn ' st bJeo ba s sPislatcaenmcee n otí CLeonist r eDe Shieid
NO BURDEN TO CARRY THE GRANDDAUGHTERS RE-BELLE ET INFIDÈLE/
Narratives of Black Working OF IXMUCANÉ THE BODY BILINGUAL
Women in Ontario 1920s—1950s Guatemalan Women Speak Translation as a Re-Writing in the
by Dionne Brand As told to Emilie Smith-Ayala Feminine
with the assistance of The granddaughters of Ixmucané are by Susanne de
Lois De Shield and the Immigrant Guatemalan women who have Lotbinière-Harwood
T dh o W cr uo om mue gn e’ hs n tJ so o b r taP l hl ac e e h m i le sn it vt o e C r se i n e t osr e f D Bio ln acn ke wBr oa mn ed n s du er dv ici av te ed d v ti oo l e Gn uce a t ea mnd al a ’t se r sr to rr u, g gw leo smen A a w tr au rly d - b wili in ngu nal i n b goo k f b ey m a in nist translator. In
i T hpn C “h i sr Ne atO s e o ne on rv ait cv ia d ar oo l Bi ai uo c . u e rs s ef r l c r y o dbo rrm edi n n e g ot x fh t ce t o Bl o u l1 a l9 ci d 2 f k C0 e e s d a ld i r ft eo e rc fa yd it r neh s oe m e 5 x0 qs . ut ih se itely f tu c h $o honr 1i e sm y 7 i tl qi . b op 9cue or 5er e na yl t t l i i n io pp n un b beo. g l e I ti n ot 0 vi h -t c so uh 8ea fii 8als c f r 9e e re d 6sds s 1 aoe nn -c i a dt 1nu ni a 6 sml sd 9ti rs a -e un t 6gnd r g et let c 2.h o 5t ra 6h t d e e i pdtr ah g e e ei v sr en as R e tS Ww cx re u rp- a rhB nl is eo te sa o tr all al en e te t ns i e n n u e t g iet nh s a e et I n b h d c o f eo f te l i md ha ewè n p ml re L Fl gie/ rtxoT i ei u n n nh t agt ce b ie h g z ri oB e ern f ao a d nid i nè d y f i er n m so EB e f n p nii - nl go ai in lcs v ig t sH e hsu a ,a tal , ir io nw n o lo atd no guage.
weaves the threads of autobiog- this book is a unique contribution to
raphy and history into a flexible feminist literary theory and an
and meaningful relationship. Never essential for literary translators.
again will I be at a loss for names The author is the winner of the
o thf e B jl uac nk c t iw ono sm e on f w Cah no a d h iaa nv e h s ist to oo rd y .”at #233 -517 COLLEGE STREET tF re anl si lx at i onA n oft o Li en tte er s S Fa rv omar d An P Or thi ez re . for her
— ANGELA Y. DAVIS
$18.95 pb 0-88961-166-1 174 pages
$17.95 pb 0-88961-163-7 288 pages
Volume 14 Number 5
January/February 1992
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:00:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Women’s Bookstop One of the questions I would like to ask other
333 Main Street West women’s bookstore staff: In three or four sentences
Dear FBN, Hamilton, Ontario tc hou e ld l i vy eo su o fsa y y ow urh a t c u sy to ou m ed ro s w asi t h th et yh e u c no rm avp el le x ai nti de s r o e-f
Margaret Phillips from Northern Women’s Book- weave in and around your bookstore? In other words
msto adr ee in t o T h thun e d e Or t t aB way a Wca oll med e n m ’s e B oa of kte sr t o ra e r wec he en rt e t sr hi ep she'd how do you stay clear, balanced, friendly and con-
nected without being drawn into turmoil. This may
spoke with Kim Nash. They were discussing the im- sound vague but somehow I think that workers at
portance of the continuation of the Canadian content Women’s Bookstores will interpret this question with-
articles (which Donna Murray had been doing). Mar- out difficulty.
garet called to say that they, (she and Kim) thought Renee Albrecht
tt ah ka et oth ne r te h em Cig ah nt a d ib ae n a c o t ni tm ene t w ah re tn ic l ee sa c h fo ro f o nt eh e Fm B N could Etd. h noete : HMurraay!r Lcoohk f o r i tshes unexet . C a na—dian C oCnteSnt in
issue but that someone should co-ordinate the sharing
out of the job. In my absence, they figured that Renee
would be a good choice for this co-ordinating job.
Why me? But I have a history of saying yes. Feminaria
So here I am saying I would do the Canadian C.C. 402
Content article for the March issue and Margaret says 1000 Buenos Aires
she'll do the following one (May) and that Margaret Argentina
and I volunteer Kim to do the one after that (July). Dear FBN,
I'd like to add that I found the December issue’s I'm sorry that the motive for my Writing to you
ali ns dt o tf h a tC a In a wdi aa sn inbo spok irs e d a n td o p se er e io sd oi c a mls u cv he r y of h te hlp ef u wl ork a af nt e ir n t s ou lec rh a b a le l o sin tg u a tp ie or ni o d an do f t os i l ae sn kc e f i os r t yo o ui rn f o sr olm id a ry io tu y of
being done in Canada acknowledged in one area. We in an attempt to remedy it.
are a creative, busy bunch. It has come to my attention that Dr. Temma Kaplan
In the meantime I feel like mentioning Marlene and her staff at The Barnard Center for Research on
Nourbese Philip's Looking For Livingstone [in this Women have been forced to resign their positions. This
issue] because I read it in one sitting. It is a slim book action against one of international feminism’s outstand-
but so packed full. Sometimes we need a book which ing scholars and activists is appalling and unacceptable.
will show us the inequities people perpetuate, which We must all protest the ramrodding of this exceptional
points out the deep frustration experienced by the woman Who, generous with her time, knowledge, and
Oppressed cultures on our planet and which uncovers skills, founded and directed this excellent research cen-
the lies we are all forced to learn. Looking For Living- ter, one of the few of its kind in its international scope,
stone does this so elegantly. But most of all Philip's archives, and activities.
sw mor ilk e ig na sv ie d e m ae n d a n o u e tm .otional rush which caused me to This brings me to the next issue: this research and
documents center must not be closed. It not only must
January/February 1992
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:00:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
remain genuinely accessible to all potential users, i.e., search on Women. They need and more than deserve
the material at each researcher's disposition (not our support.
p ka nc ok we ld e d a gw eaa by l e s o am s e tw oh e tr he e i mn a tb eo rx ie als ) c a on nd t a it nh ee d s it na f tf he W Lea ar m Fll ey t, cher
center.
As a feminist activist, researcher, publisher, editor
of a feminist theory and literary criticism journal, I Woman of Power
d d are e ep e dl o . c r o e A n cst e h roi nns e e d h wi ag bhh ool uy t i s u t n hit n ee in r c a o b dnl ae t u a gca t hn td ew r iu st ’n h m e dme ur a ci nt ao ty ir oi no wu o s am ne dn who Orleans P MO A B o 0x 2 6 52 3785
contemplate sending them to Barnard, I find myself Dear Calyx & FBN,
forced to bring this to their attention and to counsel Thanks for the article “Financing the Publishing.”
them to seriously consider the consequences of send- It should greatly contribute to furthering more aware-
i sn ug ch t h ue ni wr a rd ra au ng th et de r s s t et po s a a g w ainom ste n w’s o m co el nle g ae n d t h ta ht e t a sok -es Tn hes es r e 'a sb o au t d et fh ie n i tf ei n nan eec din g f o o rf s ufe cm h i n inis ft o r p mu ab tl ii oc nat .ions.
cialization of world-wide information and thinking Iʻd like to see more feminist publishers contribute
on/by/about women. articles about this topic.
Could you please put a note in FBN as to this Thanks again.
effect and supply the following address: Chai McKee
President, Barnard College Editor
B Nr eo wa d w Yoay rk & N YW . 1 01 01 26 7th St. Third Side Press
Thank you for your time and solidarity with Dr. 2250 W. Farragut
Kaplan, her staff, and The Barnard Center for Re- Chicago IL 60625
Dear FBN,
I'd like to add to the now ongoing discussion of
the publication /prod uction of lesbian/feminist
plays.
As an avid Chicago theater-goer, I’ve watched the
development of feminist theater in Chicago with an
eager eye — particularly the work of Chicago's lesbian
playwright Claudia Allen whose script Movie Queens
is now available from Chicago Plays Inc. ($4.95), and
Footsteps, a women’s theater company that has been
(among other things) reviving some of Jane
Chambers’ lesser-known works.
As one of the many organizers of the 1991 Na-
tional Women’s Music Festival (Bloomington, Indi-
ana), I was proud and pleased that the festival's full
scale production of Dos Lesbos was so well received in
its two performances at the festival that its producers
put together a short run of the play in Indianapolis this
fall (where it was also very successful) — just the kind
T-Shirt 100% cotton • black on white of thing Mary Morell suggests. Of course, Dos Lesbos
is one of the few lesbian plays that is available in print,
send $12 to Little Bear Graphics and I know that the ability to find it was one of the
send S APO SE B fo ox r2 3 b30 r2 o c h- u rC ei n oc fin n mat oi r, e O sH h i r4 t5 s2 2 &3 cards! r re oa us no dn .s It nh e a n p yr o cd au sc ee ,r s N Wch Mos Fe ii st . . v.s eo r y I ig nu te es rs e s tt eh de ic nir c ble r i nis g-
January/February 1992
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:00:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
ing in at least one lesbian play at the 1992 festival (and Tide's name to your list of publishers willing to pub-
in years beyond). Theatrical directors or producers lish Lesbian sci-fi/fantasy/horror novels. Please note,
who are also interested in such a possibility should we are not interested in manuscripts that do not have
contact Mary Byrne, NWMF producer, at PO Box a Lesbian protagonist or plot.
1427, Indianapolis IN 46206-1427.
Thank you for all the hard work you and your
As a publisher, I have been contemplating the staff put into FBN. There would be a terrible void if
print production and distribution of lesbian/femi- FBN did not exist.
nist play scripts. Because I do not anticipate a large Warmly,
market, I believe that the way to go with this would Lee Boojamra
be to produce the scripts the way Chicago Plays Inc. Womankind Books
is doing them — in single-play saddle-bound vol- Rising Tide Press
umes with single-color covers. In order to be consid- Ed. note: Look for Susanna's list of f/sf titles with lesbian
ered for publication, any play would have to have characters and/or issues in the next issue.
been put on in at least one (preferably more) stage
production and would have to be provided to the
press on computer diskette. (I note this here to help
assuage a possible deluge of my office with play Three Dollar Bill
scripts.) PO Box 190176
I would like to hear from a few booksellers about San Francisco CA 94119
this proposal. Does anyone think her store would sell Dear FBN,
wa e f re ew a vo af il a bth lee ?se scripts? Would you order a few if they I'm sure I speak for all of us here at Three Dollar
Bill fanzine in thanking yourselves, in addition to
Midge Stocker, Publisher Rachel Pepper, for the recent mention in your publica-
ZRI tion.
Indeed, we appreciate the decentralized nature of
the life-positive, countercultural outgrowths we find
Rising Tide Press/Womankind Books
5 Kivy Street live for building the kinds of CrOss-group, common-
Dear FBN, Huntington Station, NY 11746 ain nt de r res at g e n bet ew ino gr k ss o o sf u c i cn ef sso fr um lla yt i o bn u, i l tp s y bc yh ic ac te in vie sr tg sy , s u l co hve
As usua], I read with bated breath every page of as yours and, I should hope, ours as well.
the October, 1991 issue of FBN, but I was especially We do find your advertising pricing out of our
interested in Susanna Sturgis’ sci-fi/fantasy column. range, however. (Our entire budget for publication is
Iam a sci-fi/fantasy buff, and Iam constantly seeking about a hundred bucks, raised and spent over and
books with Lesbian content, within this genre. Many over again!)
of Womankind Books’ customers are asking more, However, part of our diversity (and this strength)
and more, for sci-fi/ fantasy novels with Lesbian seems to us to be the different levels, including fiscal
characters and plots, and there just isn't enough budgeting and numbers reached, on which groups
available. I would like to ask Susanna to compile a list such as ours operate.
of sci-fi/fantasy books (including the horror genre) For us, even being mentioned is a relatively big
Ot rh a mt in orc .ontain Lesbian plots and/or characters, major deal, and we indeed appreciate it.
Thus, enclosed is also a copy of our publication.
In addition, I would like to assure Susanna, as Though always changing and growing, we nonethe-
well as other writers of this genre, that Rising Tide less remain committed to the liberation of human lives
Press is extremely interested in publishing novels in and love, of all creatures, and of our common Mother,
this genre. It has been our experience, at Rising Tide, Gaia/Earth.
that the sci-fi/fantasy manuscripts we receive are gen- InD Soelidkariety, Nihilson, 4 O
erally poorly written. So please, Susanna, add Rising
January/February 1992
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:00:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
HE FAELEILNIGN G U RSR W FOIRREL.D
THE NEW FEMALE SHA Mmmm
vavana auat asa
T
maA iM
AUTHOR Cf MOTHERPEACK AROTYN MEVIC L E
A “Part memoir, part revisionist A “These stories are not born to A “Unique. ..…. Four experts
feminist history, part guide to goddess- simply lie on the page.. .. They draw weave together their knowledge of
banasde d a ustphiroritiutyal.i”t y "..L. .S a nW r Fitrtaennc i swcoi t hC h praosnsiicolne sebaene nenesaraea enu —toehs eLr aa autei n in rs e t d a ao ehan an r a a nc T e e etsep it es a har c ,a rd oe as u s t o h f t o h r ew i ot g f l o a b Jn e ad . m” w bai ls ad yo am zanv avavavasanyavnaras a s at —asah ns p F e ae e c mh ts ii ns t ioo sf tr i c Bta hl o, oe k s sGp ti o or d ri d et u e sa Nsl . e” wan sd cultural
/ecause It's Time ... lo
or Our Pasi, Empower Our
Presenil, and Celebrate Our Future
w“G hr ila en d im t o it nh se tr r u cM to s;o n i] n dp el ee da ,s e s a s a n itd re en bc uh ia ldn st s the [“ GP oic dk d e su sp S ia t e c so ] p y pr oa vn id d e sh i at n t h exe c ir to inad g...…. “ anR dea d win eg lc o / mP er da y ie nr ts o t o m yt h e d e eM peo so tn } , s e lI f . f e Il t f ie nm dbraced
w mo ar gl id c .” a —n Kd a th ei s mt Mo ir ly le t tit s yelf—it be aguiles. That’s w DG ia ry o e cd tt ido o ne t ss o su f r o r r t h e We i og mla nn ee nd d Ww h se ure p rth ee me.”—New m m Day o vos in se ,l . f cH oe a aa g ug a te n hr o rif s o or a f n r Ci eg omh uat rrf aka gl a el b , l t ew o a t t Hec a eh c ahi ln e g r W ” —fo Lr a u rt ahe
YDetighitat mhiy, schatarhy
J
soneraeeepasaapasbaenepaekeraereoaser
& HarperSanFrancisco
A Division of HarperCollinsPublishers osnan Also available from HarperCollins Canada Ltd.
January/February 1992 8 Volume 14 Number 5
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:00:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
age of women’s and lesbian/gay stores that would
bring new customers into the bookstores (and thus
increase sales), could be the most effective aspect of
NL&GBM. Continued on next page
The Publishing Triangle, a NYC based network-
ing association for lesbians and gay men working in
the publishing industry, is contemplating creating a
nationwide lesbian/gay book month to correspond Seal Press recently celebrated its 15th year of
with gay pride events in June. The idea and much of | “helping women lead lives of empowerment and
the (still tentative program) is inspired by the very | change.”
successful British Feminist Book Fortnight and mod- Barbara Wilson and Rachel da Silva founded Seal
eled, in part, after Black History Month, according to | in 1976 primarily as a letterpress poetry press. Since
Publishing Triangle member Roz Parr (A Different | then, Seal has published nearly 100 books and grown
Light Bookstore/ NYC). into a forum for fiction and nonfiction by women
Parr sees the proposed Lesbian/Gay Book Month | writers from around the world.
as offering a number of ways to promote lesbian and These days, under the direction of a staff of 10 led
gay literature. It would encourage New York and by co-publishers and editors Wilson and Faith Conlon
mainstream publishers to do special promotions of | (who joined the press in 1982), Seal looks forward to
gay and lesbian books including special ads, gay/les- | another great year. Titles in 1992 will include a book
bian catalogs and handouts, and various kinds of | on women in rock and pop music, a collection of
promotion pieces that could be useful to booksellers. | essays.on bisexuality and feminism, a first novel by
As with Black History Month, publishers could do | Chicana writer Terri de la Pena, books on women in
special launches for books and groups of books dur- | the outdoors, and the first poetry collection by the
ing the month that would garner extra media atten- | well-known novelist Barbara Kingsolver.
tion for both the books and the stores hosting the
events. Having a Lesbian/Gay History Month
(NL&GBM) would encourage these publishers to
work more closely with feminist and lesbian and gay
stores in all these areas.
Gay and lesbian and feminist bookstores could
make use of these materials for special NL&GBM
window and in-store displays and give-aways, spon- Donna McBride and Barbara Grier, lesbian pub-
sor special readings, work with other g/1/f bookstores lishers extraordinaire, celebrated their 20th anniver-
to generate advertising, posters and media coverage sary in January. They jointly founded Naiad Press the
for local NL&GBM events, and to encourage local TV, following year and will celebrate Naiad’s 20th anni-
radio, and print media to promote NL&GBM (and, of versary in January 1993. See Hot Wire (Jan. 1992) for
course, the events in their stores). Local media cover- more details and interview.
Volume 14 Number 5 9 January/February 1992
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:00:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Lesbian/Gay Book Month, Continued from on the bookstores with the strongest commitment and
expertise in selling lesbian and gay books and to work
previous page toward bringing more customers into women’s and
The Publishing Triangle (PT) is sorting through a gay/lesbian bookstores. Long-term goals do, how-
number of ideas to provide the most effective support ever, include encouraging general and chain book-
for such an event. Obviously the PT — being com- stores to expand their stock of lesbian and gay titles
posed primarily of people working in publishing — and to add lesbian and gay literature sections if they
w mo ou tl id on aw l o r mk a t ec rlo ias le sl .y I tw i wth o u p ldu b ali ls sh o e r ws o rt ko g toe n e or ba tt ae i n p r mo a- in- don’t Ia tl r e wa id ly l bh ea v ie m pth ore tm an. t and useful for the specialty
stream media attention. Mainstream media in general stores already focusing on lesbian and gay books to
seems to be looking for new approaches to Gay Pride work together to create a local identity as the central
Month and bookselling and literature are, as one PT organizing places in their community for NL&GBM
member put it, “very respectable.” NL&GBM would events and publicity so that when general bookstores
provide an easy way for the various kinds of media to and chain stores (and libraries and universities) join
pitch women’s and gay/lesbian bookstores. the effort and sponsor NL&GBM readings and events,
joint publicity efforts will already be in place and
media won't be encouraged to skip over the specialty
tlian stores in favor of giving publicity to stores with chain-
sized advertising budgets, etc.
Future projects could include developing a core
list of titles for starting a lesbian/gay section in a
general bookstore, a guide to promoting lesbian and
The PT is also considering developing a package gay titles in a general bookstore with some comment
of materials for bookstores that could include promo- on the fine points and sensitivities of selling lesbian
tional ideas, suggestions for how to contact local and gay titles, and outreach to national wholesalers to
and/or national media, dummy press releases, and encourage them to participate in NL&GBM by pro-
display materials (window posters, logo blow-ups, a ducing catalogs, highlighting target accounts, and im-
poster with room to write in local readings, camera- proving their stock of both backlist and front list
ready materials for creating local posters) as well as a lesbian and gay titles.
geographic list of authors to help booksellers and the Although there was some early discussion of
media find “local authors” (inspired by Women In scheduling the NL&GBM in April to allow and en-
Crime’s success with a similar list) and a data base of courage universities and colleges to sponsor readings,
key gay and lesbian bookselling accounts to aid pub- the idea has been shelved for the moment in the inter-
lishers with NL&GBM promotion. Other ideas in- est of piggybacking the book promotion on the al-
clude developing a nationwide list of gay media ready well established Gay Pride Month. Income from
contacts, working to generate readings and other university-sponsored readings and programs during
NL&GBM events in public libraries, working with the Black History Month has become an important source
American Association of Publishers, supporting the of revenue for Black writers since the inception of
development of a special gay and lesbian caucus in the Black History Month. University-based NL&GBM
ABA and sponsoring a booth at ABA to display lesbian readings could generate similar income for lesbian
and gay books from a range of publishers to provide and gay writers in the future.
a centralized place for booksellers to shop for lesbian This whole program is very much in its formative
and gay titles, and to promote NL&GBM. stage. If you have ideas, comments, suggestions Or
NL&GBM is tentatively scheduled for June of this concerns, or can take a few moments to tell the PT
year. If the program is launched this year, it will focus which of the above ideas would be most useful to your
on gay/lesbian and women’s bookstores and atten- bookstore, call Roz Parr at A Different Light, 212-989-
t ui no tn i l t fo u tg ue rn ee r yal e a rst so . r e Ts h isa n d w i lc lh a ai ln lo w s t o Nr Les & G w Bi Mll b toe fd oe cla uy sed 4850 (or write to Roz at 548 Hudson St., NY NY 10014.) —CS
January/February 1992 10
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:00:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
areas were aghast to learn that magazines like Play-
boy and Blueboy were being printed in their commu-
nities. When the tax breaks were renegotiated, it was
often with an understanding (presumably unwrit-
ten) that the printer agree not to print items that
might be considered pornographic by local towns-
Falmer Press in London has launched its new people. Scared of losing their tax breaks, these print-
women’s studies list with Out of the Margins: ers are now unwilling to print even a book like Gay
Sex.”
Women's Studies in the Nineties, published in associa-
tion with the Women’s Studies Network (UK). Out of Alyson did find a Canadian printer willing to
the Margins, edited by Jane Aaron and Sylvia Walby, print the book — but the layouts were intercepted by
takes a look at the state of women’s studies in Britain ; the ever-vigilant Canadian Customs office which, as
' today .: It ’sa Eth e f:i rs t o tnitlee in i tnhe setrihes e “ G enodfer f aincd e SI R IGh aanstanBY' t R G Sh yaotd to reat ti rnc hthaA n PcAReA D At od read it yet?
Society: Feminist Perspectives on the Past and Pres- n St aa d Ste le sit ye
ent“ Unfortunately, the difficulty is continuing. Alyson’s
Falmer Press also publishes a “Social Aspects of new edition of Young, Gay and Proud! was rejected by
AIDS” list, which commissioning editor Jacinta Evans Bookcrafters,apparently because the book describes
says has been well-received by the gay and bisexual safe sex practices.
community there. But who loses out in the long run? Sasha Alyson
Forthcoming titles from Falmer include Women in argues that it’s the proponents of censorship. “Yes,
Science: The Snark Syndrome, by Eileen M. Byrne, and this is costing us money, but it's also generated quite
A DoID rS n: , W Sho em ile an , H eD nr du eg rs s o nan d a n dS o c Nia il g e C l a r Se o, u t hed . i t Fe od r b my o rN eick a r u nb it f oo rf Gp au yb l i Sc eit xy . b yC o n 5s 0e %q .u ”ently we've raised our print
information on these series, contact Falmer Press at 4
John St., London WCIN 2ET; 071-405-2237, fax 071-
831-2035.
GREECE: On November 28, the lesbian editors of
the Greek Gay/Lesbian magazine AMPHI were taken
to court and charged with “publishing material that is
indecent and offensive to the public feeling" under
Alyson Press’ Gay Sex (the book) is finally in print paragraphs 29, 30, and 31 of clause 5060/31 of the
apndr iinn t teher ss.t or e(sS, e aeft e rF bBeiNng t1ur4n#ed 4 d.o)w n a bnyd 1 8 a | G5re0ek, 0 P0e0na l DCordea. c Thhme waosm e nf ifnacee . 5 months in jail
While Gay Sex'’s illustrations do, well, illustrate AMPHI, as a publication that reaches both les-
the specifics of gay (male) sexual activities, they are | bians and gay men, receives marny telephone calls
hardly to be categorized as erotic or pornographic. | and letters from (straight) men who want the maga-
According to the Alyson Press Newsletter, the produc- | zine to provide lesbians for them to have sex with,
tion manager at a major publishing company ex- | including propositioning the magazine’s Executive
plained why Alyson (and other publishers) are | Editor and Editor in Chief (both lesbians). Needless
suddenly encountering trouble finding printers: to say, this is very irratating and not the purpose of
“It turns out that many printers locate in small | the organization. AMPHI editors ran a note in the
towns where they get a tax break in return for pro- | magazine's announcements column asking these
viding a certain number of local jobs. When these | men to leave lesbians alone because “they have
deals first started being made, townspeople in some | nothing in common with lesbians to share in bed.”
Volume 14 Number 5 11 January/February 1992
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:00:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
This note was the material that was considered “in- signed as a postcard to send to President Bush. Groff
decent” in the eyes of the Greek legal systerm. In said the activists were generally well-received as they
other words, saying “No” to straight men is what delivered the cards to bookbuyers near the Fifth Ave-
was found to be obscene. nue and 57th Street stores Brentano's, Barnes and
This prosecution is clearly prosecuting with a Noble, B. Dalton, Doubleday, Rizzoli, Shakespeare
political motivation and context. The right-wing and Co. and the Whitney Museum.
Greek government wants to banish homosexuality Groff, an editor at Crown, is soliciting ideas for
simply by stopping any publication that is written by other actions, such as handing out a leaflet with every
or addressed to homosexuals and lesbians. AMPHI is book purchase. Before that can happen, however, the
the first public victim of this crusade because it is the AIDS statistics on the postcards will need updating:
oldest gay publication in Greece and is the official AIDS has killed 4,000 more women, men and children
p mu eb nl tic a it nio n t h o ef c oth une t rL ye .sbian and Gay Liberation Move- since Ft oh re mDe oc re em b iner f o rle maf atle iott ni ,n g o r t o to ok sp hl aa rc ee . ideas, contact
Shortly after the beginning of the prosecution, the Groff at 212- 645-8910.
Senior Judge made his views about homosexuality
clear. He called every homosexual man or woman
“abnormal” and made many derogatory comments
including “Now yow'll tell me we have to introduce
homosexuality as a lesson in Sunday Schools so that
young children can be experts on the subject!” and
“Your ideas are that we must leave our wives and turn Open Letters, the new British feminist publishing
to homosexuality.” company founded by Ros de Lanerolle and friends
Send your letters of protest to The Ministry of (previously announced as “Mimosa,” a title deter-
Justice, Zinonos Str., Greece; The Ministry of Foreign mined to be “too soft” for the kind of publishing Open
Affairs, Vas Sophias St., Greece; or the Greek Embassy Letters will do) is planning to publish its first two titles
in your own country. in June 1992, in time for the V International Feminist
— Information from the Lesbian Group/Athens. Re- Book Fair.
printed from the International Lesbian Information Service, The first two books will be Colonels and Cadres by
COC Rozenstraat 8, 1016nx Amsterdam, the Netherlands Jackie Cock, author of the internationally known
study of the lives of domestic workers in South Africa
Maids and Madams, and Servants of the Buddha by Anna
Grimshaw. Colonels and Cadres will offer a sociologist’s
account of women’s experiences in the South African
armed services and in the ANC guerrilla army along
with a highly readable feminist analysis of women
and militarism. In Servants of the Buddha, Grimshaw
A dozen members of the Publishing Triangle suc- writes perceptively and beautifully about the year she
cessfully pulled off what they hope to be the first of spent living in a Tibetan buddhist nunnery in Ladakh,
many actions to raise AIDS awareness among book- the extraordinary hardship of the life, and also about
buyers and publishers “and to get the government to the relationship between the nuns and the nearby
get off its ass,” said David Groff of the Publishing monastery which controls all of the money.
Triangle. Other scheduled titles include We Won't Let You
On December 1, outside seven major New York Use Our Silence edited by Armorer Wason, the first title
City bookstores, activists handed out 1,000 postcards in a series about the incipient women’s movement in
featuring excerpts from the works of five writers Eastern Europe; Racism in the New Europe, an anthol-
whose voices have been silenced by AIDS: Vito Russo, ogy looking at emergent racisms/ nationalisms in Ger-
Cookie Mueller, Allen Barnett, Michael Grumley and many, France, and Holland on the one hand, and those
Joseph Beam. The reverse side of the leaflet was de- of Poland, Czechoslovakia, and the Ukraine on the
January/February 1992 12 Volume 14 Number 5
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:00:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
other hand (to be co-published with a German femi- who have the wherewithal — usually money and
nist publishing house); two volumes in the Black contacts — have the information and do not generally
Women Writing series, one of fiction, the other of share it with those people who have less. Feminaria is
critical work, that will be overseen by Margaret Busby an independent journal and its basic tenet is to obtain
and Rhonda Cobham; and Women and Land and and share with its readers information — feminist
Women and the Structural Adjustment Programs, the first theory and women’s writings — from all over the
st ew rieo s. titles in Open Letters’ Women and Development w Lao tr inld , A i mnc el ru id cain . g T ho ef pc ro iu nr ts e r uA nr g pen ert i n ia s s ua en d i s t h 1e ,0 0r 0e s t o f of
In February Open Letters will launch a book- which 750 copies are sold and the remaining are given
club aimed at the women’s studies, cultural studies away.
and Black studies markets. Bookclub titles will be This year Feminaria will only appear one time
predominantly non-fiction, and drawn mainly from because, in an attempt to lower costs, I learned how to
„ the humanities. Books will be chosen by Alison do the typesetting and layout on an Apple computer.
BH oe on kn ce lg ua bn ., formerly Editor of The Women’s Press You can just imagine how frustrating that was at first
for someone who had never even touched a computer
Open Letters is determined to retain financial before.
independence and control. To this end they are financ- In an attempt to meet these needs and to find a
ing the company with private investment raised way to finance the journal I have decided that it is time
among friends and supporters. As of mid-fall, they for Feminaria Editoria to come into existence. To this
had raised half of what they need for the first crucial end Linda Nicholson, the director of Routledge’s se-
period and are still welcoming all inquiries regarding ries “Thinking Gender” and the editor of the book
i rn av ise es dt m he an st . c oA mp ep r o fx ri om ma t e tl hy i s a s it dh ei r od f o tf h et h Ae t lm ano tn ice .y F me im ssi in oi ns m t/ oP o ss et lm eco td e ar nn di s m tr a a nn sd la t eR o fu ot ule rd g ae r tg ica lv ee s m ine h p ee rr - book
For more information, or to inquire about rights and publish them in book form with Feminaria
or investing (£50 = 1 share), or for information about Editora. A friend of mine, who is a certified translator,
t Nh oe r t hO cp he un r cL he t t Re or as d , B o Lo ok nc dl ou nb , N w 1r i 3te N T t .o Open Letters, 147 h ha es r d wo hn ee n t h the e t r ba on os kl a t ii so n p u a bn ld is h h edas — ag r Mee ad r c ht o 1 9m 9y 2, p ia ny in tig me
for the First Women’s Conference of the Federal Cap-
ital of Buenos Aires. Then, in April, the book will be
formally presented in the yearly book fair here in
Buenos Aires.
This is not the first attempt at beginning a femi-
nist publishing house (what a grandiloquent term!)
here in Buenos Aires. The first attempt, which pro-
Feminaria, which I founded and have edited now duced two books, was made in the 1970s and the
for four years, receives no outside financing. Most of second, made in 1989 had a false start, dissolved and
the money comes from what I make teaching English regrouped to publish one book, although it will do so
and doing translations, the rest from believing family in association with a major publishing house in 1992.
and friends. There is no paid advertising in the journal What happened with these two? What makes me
for two reasons: 1) the people/businesses with the think I can make a success of it? I believe that their
financial means to take out ads do not want to do so lack of continuity was due primarily to no real
in a feminist publication and much less so in one that knowledge of the publishing world. One of my goals
can only come out twice a year, and 2) the ads which is to not commit the same mistakes. I feel like I've
appear about women’s activities and publications are taken some steps in this direction: four years of edit-
unpaid in an attempt to comply with one of the goals ing and publishing a feminist theory journal, learn-
of the journal: the socialization of information. This ing how to do the typesetting and layout on an Apple
has always been a thorny issue in Argentina and computer, but there is so much more to learn!!!
perhaps in many other Third World countries: those —Lea Fletcher
13 January/February 1992
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:00:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
overrun copies may still be available. Call Mev Miller
(800-243-0138) to inquire or to reserve copies of the
Fall catalog.
As you may know, WomenSource and InBook The members of Women in Publishing handed
o mr ed re gr ein d g , i n s th o i p Ip ni ln ang, d ’ sb il sl yin stg e, m a sn d o n c u Js at nom uae rr y s 1e .rvice o Du et c e mtw bo er v 1e 1r y i ns p e Lc oi nal d o a nw : a r thds e a Pt a n t dh oe ri ar AC wh ar ris dt m aa ns d p ta hr ety
thank sO n te o o af n t eh we ch oi mgh pl uig th ert s p f ro or g r ab moo k ts hel al te r s a u tis o m t ah ta i-t, N ace hw ie v V emen et nu tr se oA fw war od m. eB no t ih n v h olo vn eo dr s in a c k thn eo w ble od og ke wt oh re ld.
cally sorts orders by program, you no longer need to For her work setting up the Women Writers’ Work-
s oe rp da er ra t e t o y go eu tr mW ao xm imen uS mo u r dc ie s c oo ur nd te r o nf r o am ll ty ho ru er e I pn rl oa gn rd ams shop and Aurora Metro Publications, Cheryl Robson
— and the total number of books ordered is the de- garnered the Pandora Award, which celebrates “the
ciding factor for the discount your receive in each h ha ar vd e cw oo nr tk r i ba un td e d c o mur oa sg t e t oo f t hw eo m ste an t u sw h oo f a wre o m h ee nl d i nto
category. For example, if you order 500 books at one
time, 100 of which are WomenSource titles, 100 of publishing, bookselling and related areas.” The new
which are InBook titles, and the rest Inland titles, you Australian feminist press Spinifex, founded by Ren-
w 46i %ll r oe nc e i Wve o m t eh ne S o5 u0 r0 c e b o anok d d Inis Bc oo ou kn t (r o an th ea rll tt hh ar ne e 4 3li %nes: Vat ee n tK urle ei n A wan ad r d S u fs oa rn wH oa mw et nh o r wn he, o e aa rr en e cd o n t sh ide e r N ede w to
for 100 titles), and 41% on Inland titles. The computer have broken new ground. Spinifex was represented
will automatically categorize titles based on which a Ct o mthe m a iw ssar iods n .b y P rso em ve io on ue s f r (o 1m 99 0th ) e wAu inst nra eli ra sn H wig eh re Nina
w Ini ll al n dn e t w ily l o u b e t h ae b l eb e ts ot gd ii vsc eo u yn ot u. O ann op rh do en re so ur mde mr as r, y S trh ia bn ud tl io of nf s, tw o h o W ow mo en n t ih ne PP ua bn ld iso hr ia n gA , w aa nr dd Ufo rr b a nh e r F o xcon-
a al l o bw rain ckg e ty . o Bu a ct ko o r a dd ed r s t o f r ot mhe so ar led se r r ei pf ’ s y oo ru d ew rsa n t w i lt lo b j eump Press, which took home the New Venture Award for
shipped out with regular Inland orders which will Bfo lar cm k i n wg o ma e nn .ew press promoting the creative talents of
s s oa a rv l dee es r f r r e fe p ri og mh wt i l l I a n n lb ad e n d p c . a r p e Ae d nr itw de ,o d r t k of. o r tA h n t ed h e r y e lIe ins e, B f o y o oko fu r t s i h tI eln e -B s w o ho y ok o -u pays- Ekene T h Ae k a lf ao wll uo w ai tn g t hi es a Wda op mt ee nd f inr o m Pu b a l i ss hp ie ne gc h C hg riv ise tn - by
bills, all this will require only one account and one mas party December 11:
account number. Good evening everyone, thank you for joining us
Inland has also announced a new, improved here to celebrate the achievements of women in the
WomenSource discount schedule: 40% for 5-24 books, book world. Book world sounds clumsy but the pur-
42% for 25-49 books, 43% for 50-199 books, 44% for pose of these awards is not just to celebrate the work
200-349 books, 45% for 350-499 books, 46% for 500+ of women in publishing and bookselling, but also to
books. celebrate the wide variety of work women do to get
Inland is also printing a specially produced issue of books written, circulated and most importantly read.
the WomenSource catalog that includes all the ads and Tonight's nominees cover all these areas.
title listings but doesn’t refer to Inland. There's room to This year as in previous years WiP had a wonder-
p tor i n dt i s to rr i b ust ta em tp o y yo ou ur r s ct uo sr te o's m en ra sm e as a ynd ou rl o g oo w no n s a t leh se cc aa tt aa -log f awul al ry d s d . i f Wfi oc nu dlt e r ft uim l e b ec ch auoo ses in ig t wth ae s r inec spip irie in nt gs to of st eh e e s te he
log. Copies of the catalog run 80-90 cents per copy, m cua ltn y b ep cr ao uj se ec t s f a ct eh da t w w ito hm e sn uc ha r e a i gn ov oo dl v e sd el e cin ti o a nn d o f d i cf af ni- -
d ine gpe n cd oi pn ig es o on f t th he e q su pa rn inti gt y c ap tr ali on gt e d w. a sD e Jad al nin uae r yf o r 1 5 ,r e bse ur tv- See Wiplash Awards, page 68
January/February 1992 14 Volume 14 Number 5
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:00:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Collected by Carol Seajay It was a very good move, and well worth the increase
in rent." OWB also reports that Canada’s new General
Renee Albrecht (of The Women’s Bookstop in Sales Tax isn't hurting sales. “Most of our customers
Hamilton), Margaret Phillips (of The Northern rank books only slightly behind rent and food as
_ Woman in Thunder Bay) and Kim Nash (of The Ot- essentials and the students have no choice — they
tawa Women’s Bookstore) have conspired to return have to buy the books.”
“Canadian Content” to the pages of FBN. See “Let-
ters” for more details.
Sales Reports
December sales reports are all over the map with
many feminist bookstores stores reporting “flat” sales
for December even when sales for the rest of the year
were up.
Although many general bookstores reported
additional sales from recession-wary shoppers who
decided (often at the last minute) to give books
rather than more frivolous and expensive gifts and
a crush of last-minute shoppers who pushed De-
cember 1991 sales above December 1990 sales, the
“new-found gift-giving style” has already been the
norm among feminist bookstore customers for
many years and consequently didn’t generate the
additional sales seen in many general bookstores.
PW and ABA Newswire reports didn’t consider gen-
der-composition of last-minute shoppers but FBN’s
informant from a local general bookstore noted that The Women’s Bookstop (Hamilton, Ontario) re-
about 70% of the customers in the store doing that ports that sales are “Great!” Full Circle (Albuquerque)
much-touted last minute shopping, were men. reports sales up about 5%. Dreams and Swords (Indi-
(Women make up about 70% of the store's Thanks- anapolis) reports that this was their worst Christmas
giving T hw ee e wke on rdd fcu rs ot mom te hrs e. ) Ottawa Women’s Bookstore in i“ te sv e tr h.” i r dIn k yl ein arg s o f(H o bu us st io nn e) s, s , w rh ei pc oh r t h edas tj hu as tt sc ao lm esp l fe ote rd they
mid-December was that sales were “Not good, but year were up 25% but December sales were up only
very good.” OWB attributed much of their growth to 2%, a major disappointment in a year when most
their move up the street a year ago. Their new location months were running 30% above the previous year.
is on ground-level rather than being ten steps above Inklings had reported a growth rate of only 10% for
street level, there's a bus stop in front of the store and their second year, due in part to major construction on
it’s closer to office buildings with lunch traffic and their street corner that made it impossible for all but
restaurants. “We're on the path of women who didn’t the most committed to get to the store. New Words
know they needed us until we appeared in their lives. (Cambridge) reported two bang-up weeks before
15
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:00:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Christmas, but that sales were down slightly for the | Expansion:
year. The Book Garden (Denver) said that sales Sue Butterworth and Jane Cholmeley telephoned
looked scary through November then rebounded in | from London to tell us that Silver Moon will be ex-
the last three weeks. ‘91 was a record- breaking year | panding into the shop next door and will triple their
for the seven-year old store. “We broke $200,000 this | selling space by Easter. The Old Collet’s Bookshop, is
year (with 4 days to spare!) and then partied! We're moving in with the (newer) Collet’s Bookshop further
planning to break $250,000 for 92.” Owner/ Founder | up Charing Cross Road, handily vacating the double
Kasha Songer adds that this year “makes me realize storefront immediately south of Silver Moon.
we can survive the hard times.... We opened in ‘85 | (Collet’s, started by Eva Collet, was the original left
in what was a mean recession in Colorado — noth- | wing bookshop in London.)
ing will ever be that tough again.” Page One (Pasa-
dena) reported that December was “not up.” While
Valley Women (Fresno) reported that sales were
good, they got their newsletter out late — it arrived
at customers’ homes just six days before Christmas.
Sales tripled from that day on, but even with that
surge, December’s sales were about the same as last
year and it was difficult and a bit scary waiting for
those sales to arrive. Valley Woman also reports that Sue and Jane estimate that adding the new space
sales have tripled since Susan and Tom took over | will increase their rent by 200% but anticipate that
the store two years ago. They also tripled the space | having the added selling space will increase sales by
and doubled the stock in the interim. In 1989 they | about US$400,000 per year. “We expect that the added
did major promotional efforts — such as sponsoring | space and the opportunities it will afford us will make
a Holly Near event — but didn’t do any promotion | us the biggest and possibly the best women’s book-
on that scale in ‘91. Mother Kali’s (Eugene) reported | shop in Western Europe,” Jane reports. :
that 1991 was a a good year but Christmas sales While we were on the phone I asked how Christ-
were flat compared to the rest of the year, which was | mas sales were going. Jane said that it had been a very
a disappointment. The recession is more apparent in | late season in Britain, with people generally waiting a
Oregon now and sales are beginning to show that | bit before making purchases, but that their sales and
women are feeling it. Charis (Atlanta) reported that | the women’s market in general, recession or not, was
December sales were just a little better than last year. holding up very well. In terms of turnover per square
foot and per member of staff, Silver Moon continues to
beone of the most profitable bookshops in all of Britain.
Awards and Appreciation!
Anne (Izzy) Harbaugh, Manager of Mother Kali’s
Bookstore (Eugene) was awarded the community's
Harvey Milk Award for her work in the feminist,
lesbian, gay, and bisexual communities. Mother Kali’s,
the only women’s bookstore in the Northwest, was
founded in 1975. Anne has been working at the store
since 1977. When asked how she felt about the award,
Anne replied, “It’s wonderful to receive an award for
doing what you love.”
Theresa Corrigan, the owner of Lioness Book-
store in Sacramento, was awarded the River City
Democratic Club's Community Service Award for her
work with the bookstore. Theresa, being Theresa, then
January/February 1992 16 Volume 14 Number 5
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:00:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)4:56 UTC
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
issued the gay/lesbian club a series of challenges on with minimal advertising and no mailing to their
building and maintaining community, part of which (large!) mailing list. The Open House didn’t cost
I'd like to reprint in FBN. nearly as much as the previous year’s project and was
a lot less work than the craftsfair — and brought in just
Computer-Love as much business.
Red and Black went up on Wordstock in October.
They hired the “friendly, courteous people” from Fire & Fire Insurance
Regis to do their inventory and found, to their sur- A Room of One's Own in Madison is the most
prise, that Ingram’s database was able to match all but recent victim of a series of “trash-fires” set at bar-clos-
150 of their titles. Pretty amazing, given Red and ing time in this university town. The materials used to
Black's eclectic leftist, progressive, feminist, gay /les- set the fire were boxes and paper that had been set
bian stock mix. (Ingram’s database includes many outside to be picked up in the morning for recycling.
titles that Ingram does not stock.) Word is that they When the fire trucks arrived to put out the fire, women
were quite pleased. were pulling burning materials away from the store with
Red & Black also sponsored a Dead Writers Eve- their bare hands while (some) men were watching from
ning on Halloween. Their events calendar described across the street and chanting “Let it burn. Let it burn.”
the event: “Join us for our second annual Dead Writers
Evening. Please come as your favorite dead author
and, if you're not scared to death to speak in public,
read from her/his work. Bring a picture of the author
for our Altar of Ancestors. If you don’t sign up by
October 20 (in person or by phone), you many not
have a ghost of a chance to read. Ethereal eats and
decoffinated beverages will be provided. Not-yet-
dead people (i.e., folks without costumes) are also
welcome.”
More Good Ideas:
New Words reports that their Frequent Reader
Plan (see Bookstore News, last issue) is an enormous Courtesy of A Room of One's Own
success. The fire was out by the time ARO3 collective
Mary Ellen Kavanaugh (My Sisters’ Words) members had been notified and arrived on the scene.
writes that the Feminist Bookstores’ Network ads in Fortunately the fire was reported quickly enough and
national magazines are really being noticed in Syra- the fire trucks arrived soon enough that fire destroyed
c ou thse e r a n td ak ew rsa ?nts a postcard or bookmark version. Any don ooly r at nh de w thin e d o “w fr e ean d f l iw eri sn d ao nw d c na os tin icg e s "t o s ht eh le v e sl e f at n d o f a r t eh a,e
Lioness Bookstore, for many years, sponsored a though firefighters estimated that, with another 15
women’s craftsfair in the bookstore in the beginning minutes, the wood panelling in the entrance would
of December. The craftsfair “brought in customers” have ignited and the entire store could have been
but just about broke even on the financial side. In 1990, destroyed. As it was, smoke damage necessitated re-
partly out of the urge to do something different, and placement of all the ceiling tiles and cleaning or re-
partly due to space considerations, Lioness hosted placing both rugs.
two days of entertainment in the bookstore, as a way The fire was set only days before the beginning of
of bringing in additional customers. “It was very ex- text-book selling week. “Diane (Hughs) did a great job
pensive, and basically, it didn't work,” Theresa re- with the insurance company,” Sandi Torkildson re-
ported. “People who had holiday shopping on their ported. “We have business interruption insurance as
minds didn't feel like sitting still long enough to be part of our insurance package and, when she made the
entertained.” This year Lioness did an open house, first contact with our insurance company, she pointed
17 January/February 1992
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:00:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Dear Lucy, o scene materials for the purpose of selling, renting or
viewing.” The definition of obscenity, as Joann and
In the Beginning, | felt Stranded out On This Mariah of AWB understood it, would include nearly
Hilltop. Living in An Intimate Wilderness has really everything in the store’s sexuality, lesbian, and video
made me appreciate the value of Women’s Friend- sections.
ships. Thanks to The Company of Dogs and your The people behind the ordinance were a mix of
frequent letters, which keep me In Stitches, I'm in right-wing Christian-types and people who had expe-
full Possession of my senses. With my dream of rienced abuse. There was a lot more testimony about
eventually homesteading in Alaska now realized, the ordinance than the city assembly had anticipated
Im in Seventh Heaven. You Just Don't Understand and this seemed to be an important factor in their
the beauty of this place until you're on on The eventual decision to table it.
Plains of Passage (what I call my huge garden) and At the first hearing, the supporters of the ordi-
look up to witness Hawkwings flapping overhead. nance made a very strong visual impact as “clean-cut
Though the Great Northern became my Bedrock, American types,” all wearing little white ribbons, rep-
Y'm still a Feminist Fatale, full of Rebellion, and resenting the forces of truth and light and opposed by
singing my Road Song. Ive even befriended a Coy- a motley crew of adult bookstore owners (who could
ote! Being Someone of vivid imagination, I've been have been dressed for roles in biker movies), ACLU-
having a lot of Animal Dreams and this sparked my ers and other various “scruffy” types and some dyke
writing a book of Earth Prayers. Remember, call booksellers. At the second hearing the First Amend-
my if you need Wilderness Tips. May Your Days Be ment types looked a bit more clean-cut and the Mr. &
Merry and Bright. Wish You Were Here! Mrs. America types lost some power. The censorship
Lovingly, Georgia people were well organized and came early to the first
hearing and filled all the seats, so that when the hall
Reprinted from A Room of One's Own’s newsletter. O was cleared of those standing, the only people left
out to them that our biggest sales week of the semester were the pro-censorship contingent who were then in
was coming up and that it might be more economical a position to dominate the testimony. Their strategy
to pay overtime for the clean-up company to work on was to push the ordinance through very quickly, but
the weekend than to cover our lost sales during text- the amount of testimony from the opposition pre-
book week. When she explained it to them that way, vented that. The hearings were structured so that the
they became quite cooperative and eager to get the man who presented the ordinance asked questions of
store open by the beginning of the week.” all who testified and baited people who spoke against
The biggest part of the clean-up was cleaning the the ordinance as a method of discrediting speakers
books. The firefighters used chemicals rather than who disagreed with his views.
water to put the fire out but the residue settled on Madisew Avenue discoveans Lesbians..
everything. Consequently, every book in the store had
to be picked up and wiped down on all six sides. Rulpfroit
Fortunately, although most of the books for classes Fvagle
had arrived, they were still sitting in cartons in the Cy cat
storeroom waiting to be set out and did not have to be pP
cleaned individually. The store was up and running in fas: 1e Attem ble
good time. Neither the awning nor the hand-painted
sign on the front of the store were damaged. The emotional weight of the hearings was clearly
with the survivors of abuse, despite the fact that the
Facing Down Censorship ordinance did not deal with the real issues of abuse
Anchorage and the Alaska Women’s Bookstore and did not present real solutions to abuse. Pro-ordi-
faced down a censorship law this fall. The ordinance, nance testimony also brought up health issues and
titled Exhibiting Obscene Materials would have made many other issues that added drama but were already
it unlawful for any person (or store) “to exhibit ob- addressed by laws already on the books.
January/February 1992 18
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:00:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
At the third hearing, the ordinance was perma- Women’s Bookstore to request a list of university press
nently tabled. City assembly members seemed to bestsellers we received the following note from
think better of voting on such a controversial proposal OWB'’s Kim Nash along with the list: “We were aston-
with so much strongly felt testimony. ished that we were able to come up with only seven
The ordinance seems to be on hold for the mo- titles from the university presses. There we were pac-
ment, and the assemblyman who proposed it did not ing up and down the shelves pouncing on one hot
run for re-election although proponents are threaten- book after another only to discover that despite being
ing to take it to the state level. The question, according theory they were usually from small and often Cana-
to Joann, is not if it will come up again, but when — dian presses. It was quite an illuminating though
and that will be “when we least expect it and are away somewhat frustrating process. The academic books
on vacation.” AWB reported receiving good and use- one usually associates with university presses are pro-
ful support from the ABA’s American Booksellers duced in Canada by the small presses (just to make a
Foundation for Free Expression. sweeping generalization). We also realized that we've
Bestseller Lists cut back on ordering from American university
presses because of the freight costs/exchange rate
Bestseller lists are odd, splendid, and only occa- difficulty and the expense of doing returns. This busi-
sionally scientific things. After calling the Ottawa ness just breeds one insight after another.”
By Diann Bowoman amount we pay to produce our current fliers, what we
could afford to pay for such a product and an estimate
Time for a new catalogue to appear. Panic or of how often and how many we would distribute.
pleasure?
For this rural dyke still somewhat new to the
bookselling game, both words apply. Working another
full-time job to support my three year old (fe) mail
order and (in my home) bookstore doesn’t leave much Need proven, a new ‘Womyn's Books Plus’ could
time for the Muse to inspire me, much less to do all the be edited quarterly? semi-annually? by a different
‘homework’ required by this task. press each time. That would vary style and content
A chronic 'what-iffer,’ with far too many ideas automatically. (Notice all I did was suggest this, I'm
| Popping into my head to ever start or carry out more not doing it!) Each publisher could provide its own
than a few of them, I'm daydreaming again. I envision copy within a specified deadline. The format might
a catalogue similar to Inland’s WomenSource mailing, initially resemble LC’s ad issue and space would be
but with all (or at least more) new lesbian/feminist available on the basis of cost alone. Publishers might
books and presses featured as well as their backlist want to purchase copies of this catalog and use it instead
with brief descriptions. It could be produced indepen- of their own fliers for certain distribution purposes.
dently by a graphic artist with a word processor or be As some dreams can become nightmares, I sober
done cooperatively by our presses. And it would be up on some disquieting thoughts. Part of the beauty
tailored to our customers. (Several large wholesalers of our medium is in our diversity: catalogues, offer-
provide such a service with their book offerings ings, personnel. Would this too uniformly mold us, as
around the holidays.) well as taking out some of the fun? Would we create a
For a reasonable cost, an initial survey, presented in ‘B Womyn's Booksellers’ or a dyke’s ‘Books-R-Us’?
FBN or mailed to the bookstores on FBN’s list, could What would happen in the erotica /porn debate? Who
ascertain booksellers’ desires as to whether we would be would decide what is included /excluded? There are
interested, what objections might be raised, the average some books I feel are very anti-womyn and I don’t put
19 January/February 1992
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:00:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
out any of my limited energy to advertise them when the customer to request used packaging. I'm getting a
I barely have enough time to promote the work I feel good response on this.
is super. In a couple of situations I have supplied a On my new order form (which evolved from one
tsp he ec ia sl t o rr ee q u oe rs t f oo rn ma y t si et ll fe , I o r w o su teld ern e't d h ta hv ee co ur sd toer me ed r f to or a b fu liy ere sr ’s i n c o an nc e r on r d ea rt ) r ce uc se ti ov min eg r s t o co a n m ca hn ey c k u n sir xe q u de is ft fe ed rent
store that carries it and suggested some alternate-view information-request options: additional women’s
titles when I have the energy. So I can see, judging from healthcare information, information on other
my feelings and the heavy-duty discussion that goes women’s businesses and organizations, extra For
on around this issue, that it might be a hold-up to the Women Only Healthcare Resource fliers to share (with
implementation of this concer*. a blank for how many), Current Women’s Fiction &
Non-Fiction pricelist, Current Lesbian Fiction & Non-
fiction pricelist, Current Children & Teen book pricelist.
I also ask who they heard about For Women Only from
if it’s their first order and have a line that says, “A friend
If you have ever considered such an idea yourself requested that FWO add her name to your mailing
or have some thoughts on it now, I would be excited list.” with room to fill in the name and address.
to see an open forum in FBN for discussion on the I also have a new multicultural, anti-sexist
possibilities of us birthing a multi-purpose Womyn's children’s catalogue completed. It is available for
catalog of this nature. If nothing is forthcoming, we'll $2.00 or free with purchase.
just let it lie for lack of an extra second. Incidentally, *Thank-you to Nett Hart for her suggestion that I
have any of you womyn considered starting a lesbian- share this with FBN.
owned wholesaler for all of our books? Why just the
other day I was thinking wouldn't that be a wonderful Bookstore News is compiled from newsletters, no-
new business, maybe..... tices, copies of articles, the occasional press release as
Diann Bowoman well as letters and phone calls. We generally focus this
For Women Only column on feminist bookstores and report news from
4471 Signal Road other bookstores elsewhere in FBN. If you enjoy reading
Columbiana OH 44408 this column, please be sure to send your news in, too! We
can report the news we hear! If you publish a regular (or
P.S. Some other ideas: irmregualair)l istnoreg n ew slleittsert, . p le asTe hbe a sunre k FBsN! is oOn your
I've also put a space on my mail order blank for
Books Etc. cars and white ribbons, we began to wonder about our
2410 West Ave N. vulnerability. We stock gay and lesbian literature, fem-
San Angelo TX 76901 inist books, art books, and books about AIDS, besides
Dear FBN, the whole range of a general interest bookstore.
Enclosed is a guest Editorial which I submitted to Although protesting Anti-Pornography Week
the San Angelo Standard Times and which they might have made us a target, we decided it was better
printed. to mount an ideological- based offensive than wait to
San Angelo is a nearly antiseptic town of 80,000 defend any particular book.
people isolated 90 miles from any other similar size Since the Guest Editorial we have received favor-
city. The bookselling community is composed of a able comments by people who went out of their way
B-Daltons, a Waldon Books, five Christian bookstores, to write, call, or come in, and more other favorable
one other used bookstore ( we started out as a used comments in social settings. There were no negative
bookstore but now 90% of our sales are new books) reactions, not even to our answering machines at work
and some “paperback exchange” stores. and home.
When Anti-Pornography Week was announced Texas FitzGerald & Jay Moseley
and endorsed by the City Council, complete with police co-owners Books Etc., Inc. O
January/February 1992 20
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:00:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
San Angelo
sA Serving West Texas since 1884 IHE
By TEXAS FITZGERALD woman has sex with a man who offered her
Anti-Pornography Week recently was đ Guest Column fc oh r a hr ii s t y ma, l e o fn riee n d c th o a br ea c gt re ear te r p tr hao nf e hs isses his love
Aob mse er rv ice ad n in B o o.S ka sn el l eA rn s’g e Blo a. n nIt e d f o Bl olo ow kss on l ao nv e e xf -o mr o tw ho em r-e in n, - l at wh e a nr del a hti eo rn s h exip -d ab ue gt hw te ee rn -
Week. We are apprehensive. Your rights no access to books. in-law is said by some to be a lesbian
a B l fsr ao ooe w r roA u s s kn s h d s B ie e apr aa l c n l ra e nt omrmt esa sc s doe k vm . A e A Bb ms m ose o oer ec n k ri t sao i s ctf , ai W o . n lt eeh O, eg ke u i w s r l A e a d t sm e i t sl v oe ce e ra rr r e ii bc n ’b sa e i n sl l o ps f a b c oa kc on ee kd tn- N t e db h n ee io t ew s i mM o rs w e ea yk n di e rs y ba e re u o s f lr r il fi ne nee ep ep nrr s o sse ars i ns vt .s o is e i ft v h e b A ie soi r l nbm l es fi l s ol tes uh ba nr oa t vh doei ke ac v t f a e ob own e r ieb c tn e o h se n a B n lfp eo o ir . ns a oo c ei p a I mk fto peses e ad s e d s u a s l n caal hgte e r a’s im Jr de e eol w aa rT .At se hi .o e Wn n ar T ns e hthh d oi e i i -p s C P i. b s h a o o rn o frik s o nt re i x ai o s np p gl s oi .tc rrhi nt ae o p g e B rhr i ao b pyt l hi ec y, ? Wc h h o Ta l heyp eet e k tr co a m a bn i -o sd t h a good bad
bannings, both historic and current. Every bill were enacted, how long would paign is politically correct on the surface,
year there are numerous cases of attemp- bookstores continue to exist and how an- but is ideologically flawed at depth. Who
ted and actual book bannings in America. tiseptic would the survivors be? defines pornography? A definition has not
The historic documents of this country, Obscenity continues to be an illusive been offered in any printed news release.
t Ch oe n s tD ie tc ul ta ir oa nt ’i so n B io llf oI fn d Rep igen hd tse ,n c de e ca ln ard e the t oer dm io. uT sh e ii nde a ao f pco lm um raun liit sy t i s ct a n sd oar cd is e tis y. We have N so u cd hef in ait io n w ew eas k o f hfe are dd w bi eth e n t h e p n re ow cs l at ih mat ed. No
EVERY American'’s right to tolerance. We customers who are Christian ministers; we definition was offered in the handout we
fh p c ra ou ov mue b n l t i Eh ts ae r sh t y r i C g w oh ait ssh t t a o tt f o ub e Wlwl li ee e sv t e o , f Cw s o p a ie sl i ta l nk . , tt o o r N e l ta e hod r en a a e Gnn t ud th lf e il one fs ds i, v it dh ui as ls f Aa Ral ns it io gh o e . l ,h o a ,S v o Me bm u ec t i u d s o s lt f oo a mm no ee u d r r s a , r c e w u A sh fto r uo om sma e tr re i s C n o h ,lf ri v i set t T h o ie v un a l lM , sS a u a Dn s el i lm and f t rio o ou n n uA d nsi s te ia - t o P t f oa af rc eh n re oe pd gd ro a t lpoo in h t yo i tu c hr Wae l i erf e r k o fb n i oilt sl rb od caao nero d .r . a. t tON emo n p cd tee f ti on ui- nleashed
Me x Sic oo m. e individuals believe their ideas are wW ha osh sei n g ht oo mn e sa n ad r e s o im n e E ua rr oe p ef .oreign students s pom ereo sn oe n w ai ll l m agan ei npu dla at .e i At lf ror e a h dis y o r o nhe er person
a higher enlightenment, their anger a We have asexual, bisexual, heterosexual claims to be victimized by the campaign.
righteous indignation, their morality the and homosexual customers. We have Susan Wofford, proprietor of Joe's
one standard, their taboos inviolate. Their customers who believe the husband is the Grocery, complained the placement of an
tFm g p Alt t T hs lt oa h hi eooc rt c h me b Tk ae et ma svm T y ai h e trc it t h e e e. u ti ei au ie r ro ntp r nii y r hs g a vn in ii rr c b i fe e se ea m lt a eoy kr an to s do t ne a k e. e i e i w r r n b t s nl n a e . Bn i oa o lp k T g t lu fbl oor T yue ls oh oe odh ot y t s e vt res f kh c yh r u oy ef m e se at nto a r fr t t r si d o bn us av n oo e. s tra t do r e rm i m n m m i e e rb d e m o iwq i ta n e ud nl oo u o si s nav y tmo i v Nti i e n te trw n ee ua e n n eh dw . ts b wc o i c h u m o o h oa na snGm ops nt ut s y aom u o tl rt ye so a s r b r ef is ur n h ef caa ol a hsfe ne hpi t lv on d b uc d io r od e k pl - ms re r B epl t s wi r or sibG sia e itr e l s sr a txa s e e i hr unbe i eaok ae ’s lns o i tk y yst . .o h d w a w t ta c tru m c ne o i h rh io oe a o gn ud ao u b n d th e a omw Fl o s d u .d s td o ai n er o p kt e bbef dh rta s r b e e w i ouo in io ni rs u ni nt n ho st ch t nkt gmk t a ie e p aa t o alt a n l m n myuh k e ot df t r ne ee sd i a h a, m n com de ee r s t eyh vn x i at h el m o e co a wy en a rw a kl r r i l byt le r s. e hu ai o , o a ar u t nn n dcO ye o co tb ld el f hhu i dy bf r oe a . c t e e nh i c s o hc rn t u damN a et teod v ss h d yi t so s rmfv i eo w e e t vi o m f ic h wyo il t e mtlen ele roe ih e eA lor u ye n s loni ts , r ru os u i md i n is v c nts gc tw p e e s s oi e ha u .di eh tn a tm t e h so r o d W . s p a rua a utfi i sr l ihtc oBc m ge nsd o e: ua g . t u pa nd t hn bl -I io d f enw oW n sop. te ku s b wd lio t oc hn m a’ t h t enas hN s db as b oa os n b ln e ol un oea h t lr ea d e gset pe n sdi h Tli ai iTe c nd g - l n n e rp e e e ha n h g sa Pn er so u r o.pst o. er s e tp .t r tr ssn i t oenA e lv e s ca a, dc ps ub ”e ct ac y r. ri to r a el eo e tl r p e Im o b d ard m slfi r co a o abi n e kca n nnsp er m la g f yi dsd ea ctg s t e a h yi m hh i b lt a gr o la mso ie yvb z le n e n , e peo i g nt r v tn s . ph i od te c b s mhe e r Ifs i e t iis oh s b sl so lsS u . e oc l wt dp a rr b na go eT ssn a e fehn ho hao hb ed g l e ednu a ua m at i i c ar s nr rnv ti , ai d n k tn sn de l- e g oye sd T l u o s f ‘ o i s a l R m c r e u f wt a ob o m tode e ni i m b ios es m otta , to e nr o -l o a o pvn s s re l t e ee e u Mx -oi na m pu ehg tt la n hao ee il md l , r a y e nD wib do iu an ttt h’ et
as lBiboroarkiess,e lcloellregse s aarnde ptubhliec sfchioroslst.-line defense ch o1 if c e ,t h we o uth ldo u g thh it s p bo ol oic ke rw emer ae i n g ? iv Te wn o the dying the problem, and it introduces dif-
a s fig ava cei tn , s ,s t l o c n oc g ne -n cl es a po sr t ti ss n ,h gi p b . e m l iB e eo a fno sk s s a nt oa d r e c f o ema en lm i n i u gn n se .ix cp ate en- f ad a ta mhu e arg n h s hut age cg kr e sss t s u p h a ta c hv r eoe w bd o s d ye ra x p o e f w h his ii s t dh la ou vg eht r th e wre s hi , or father, a div id Tu eal x ari sg h t Fs. itzGerald is co-owner of Books
Without booksellers, the public would have has been raped all night, an unmarried Etc. Inc. in San Angelo.
21
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:00:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsVLD
TE he scartest tning we ever heard by Diane DiMassA
was +hat we were myn’... も t ToN PE ED SOM EHEOSENE
Y d ACK T
と 用 7
VS
2
January/February 1992 Volume 14 Number 5
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:00:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
SE
By Carol Seajay The time for a new small press distributor
seemed right. RPM had closed in 1977, not due to
1982 and 1971 were landmark years in feminist lack of business and need for an east coast distribu-
(and small press) bookselling and publishing. Book- tor, but due to confused management. Women in
people was founded in 1971 and Inland sold its first
books on Valentines Day in 1982. Both organizations Do You KNOW N l
h chav ane g eb de c o tm hee fv ae cr ei t a ob fl e f ein ms it nit isu tt i o bn os o k a sn eld l i nh ga v ae n df o r oe fv e lr es- WH E1RSE D?A?V ID~ - se
bian and feminist publishing and distribution. FBN l! | E Ar EE
interviewed David Wilk to give readers a look at
Inland’s origins and development. In the next issue
we'll take a look at Bookpeople. O FIN F I CHI ES
Inland moved into its first building on December REVIEWING
15, 1981 and sold the first books at an open house on CASSETE
Sunday, February 14, 1982. Now there are more than TAPES! s
50 people working at Inland/InBook, including 14 r N
people in the order and sales departments — a far cry
from ten years ago when there were only three people = R8
to do everything.
Mutual friends introduced David Wilk and Steve
Hargraves in 1980. Both were thinking about the need
for a small press distributor on the east coast. Steve >
was working at Bookpeople and had been there al- 1
most from the start, but was thinking it was time to
move back east. David was working at the NEA in the Distribution (WIND), a victim of undercapitaliza-
Literature Program and knew his days in the new tion, overcommitment, and being an idea a few
Reagan administration were numbered. Prior to join- years ahead of its time, had also closed. Both left a
ing the NEA he had been a small press publisher legacy of booksellers who had used and wanted
(publishing the first books of both Daphne Marlatt small press distributors. Most feminist bookstores in
and Jayne Anne Phillips) and had started Truck Dis- the east were ordering some of their books from
tribution, a distributor of small press books and mag- Bookpeople, but Bookpeople was 5 days away by
azines in the upper midwest. He ran Truck from 1976 UPS, two weeks by mail, and a lot of shipping dol-
to 1979. Eventually Truck metamorphosed into Book- lars in either case.
slinger. One of David and Steve's first ideas was to get
Cartoons courtesy of Diane DiMassa Bookpeople to set up an east coast branch, but in 1981
23 January/February 1992
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:00:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Papier-Mache Press
WHEN I AM
AN OLD WOMAN
AUTHORS
PRESENT
EXCITING NEW
POETRY & FICTION
BARE AS THE TREES — Known for her clarity and directness, Elkind has earned national recogni-
tion as the grandmother who discovered poetry as a natural medium for her long pent-up reflections,
candor, wrath, regrets, and appreciations. She acknowledges the fullness of life — the suffering as
well as the joy.
0-918949-21-1, Softcover $8.00; 0-918949-18-1, Hardcover
MERLE’S AND MARILYN’S MINK RANCH — “In this new collection of short stories, crisis and un-
certainty bring odd sorts of excitement into the mundane lives of all who inhabit Tetu’s world. ..Her
highly descriptive style lends dignity to their impoverished lives and transforms their unremarkable
experiences into memorable ones. Recommended for all fiction collections.” —Library Journal
0-918949-13-0, Paperback $9.00; 0-918949-17-3 Hardcover $14.00
ORDERING INFORMATION
All books are available to the book trade from Bookpeople, the Distributors, Inland Book Company,
and Moving Books. Books and sidelines are available directly from Papier-Mache Press. Trade terms
are available upon request: (800) 927-5913 or FAX (408) 763-1422
ie
January/February 1992 24 Volume 14 Number 5
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:00:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
money wasn't readily available and interest rates and a catalog listing the books they had. Persephone
were high and that plan fell through. was a lesbian-feminist press publishing some of the
In the fall of 1981 they decided that their visions most exciting titles of the day. Crossing also had a
were similar enough and that they knew each other strong women’s list.
well enough to proceed with their vision on their own. Early sales efforts included two- and three-day
They raised about $50,000 from friends, relatives and trips to visit bookstores to tell them about Inland, and
their own savings, and chose New Haven as a base. drop off catalogs. It quickly became clear that certain
New Haven? Sure. It was near enough to New York kinds of stores wanted and needed what Inland had
City and Boston to do business but far enough away to offer — and those stores were the women’s book-
to be affordable — and it was UPS Zone 2 (overnight stores, the gay bookstores and other specialty and
delivery) to large segments of the east coast booksell- literary stores. It was clear right from the start that
ing community. feminist and gay bookstores would be Inland’s pri-
mary customers, and that Inland could find and build
“Women’s bookstores and a niche in the distribution world by focusing on
gay men’s stores w ano dm e pn u’ bs, l i sg ha ey r, s . poetry, and literary small press titles
are our best customers.”
I asked David why Inland’s mission was distrib-
uting small presses, per se, rather than, say, distribut-
“Once we decided to do it we found a lawyer, an ing books by progressive publishers or everyone's
accountant and a building right off,” David recalls. books that deal with any kind of movement themes or
“The building was 5,000 square feet.” (Inland/InBook politics.
now fills 50,000 square feet of warehouse and
officespace). “The building had been a machine shop YER KIDDING You MEAN HE
and came with a 30-year accumulation of machine ACwALLY SITS THERE an’ [| ISTENS
shop grit and oil. Steve and I, along with Maureen To THEM ALL?2?
tO A hw e e f n r c, i le e n aw ndh in o o gm f a Sw nt dee v e wh 'sa i d t h c a j m u fs ret a m dh o ii nwr ge nd , o a unh rda d f h irt eo slp t ec d tl e h a a rn e e b i i t t l i t a w tl ll i e t hup. He BouGHT AYU P ! PORTABLE PLAYER
offices but, essentially, the three of us cleaned the AN" EVERYTHING JusT Por THATI!
whole place, did the construction, and built all the
bookshelves ourselves. That was how we did every-
thing in those days. We just did it ourselves. Maureen
was paid, Steve and I lived off savings for the first six
months.
“For the first two years we didn’t even have a
computer — though we did invest in a 1970 Chevy
pick-up truck. We took all the orders by hand and
then sorted the titles alphabetically by publisher to
create pull-lists. Steve and I did everything and
learned to do everything in great detail by doing all
those daily tasks over and over and over. We both
know how everything works here from doing it our- “They say poets are the antennae of the human
selves. All of our systems are built on that working race. Small Presses are the same thing,” he responded.
knowledge.” “What we've been interested in all along is the pro-
gressive/alternative side of small presses. These
Inland started with a very tiny list of publishers presses are addressing a whole range of social and
— North Point, Persephone, And/Or, and Crossing — cultural issues. The small presses are always there
January/February 1992
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:00:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
first, publishing the new ideas. The things that the
An Inland Story small presses are saying now will become the mass
Everyone has heard a few Inland stories; culture in a few years. That’s how it's been for the last
most of us have a few favorites. Mine is set at the 25-30 years: Ideas start in the small and alternative
Third International Feminist Bookfair in Montreal press and perk up and reach the slightly more estab-
at the Women’s Press/U.K. booth. The Women’s lished media and then keep perking their way up until
Press, being owned by a larger publishing corpo- the messages are swallowed by the mass culture
ration that made all their distribution decisions for which does its best to destroy them so as to keep the
them, had suffered through a number of distribu- status quo intact. And then we're back to the small
tion schemes, none of which, unfortunately, did presses again.
even a mediocre job stocking (much less selling) “The small presses keep the mass market from
Women’s Press titles. The latest in these schemes, totally controlling the distribution of information.
Salem House, had just announced that they were Supporting the concept of small presses — the range
quitting the distribution business and there was a of small presses — is very important politically. The
wild hope among feminist booksellers that some means of production are affordable. The means of
sane arrangement might be achieved. distribution are critical. It’s very satisfying work.
There were thirty-some U.S. and Canadian
feminist booksellers at Montreal and, one by one,
they all made their way to the Women’s Press booth "There’s not a minute to get
and suggested that Women’s Press go with Inland. bored. Not a chance!"
Now, as I heard it later, The Women’s Press staff was
looking for information about U.S. distribution and “The women’s bookstores and the gay book-
a bp op or ke sc ei la let red s. h Be ua tr i n bg y t th he e s tu eg ng te hs t i oo rn s s oo f u nt ah ne i m f oi urs st ly f rew ave tst ho er ire s b a rr ee a d o u ar n d b e bs ut t tc eu rs . t o Sm omer es t. i m S em s a l Wl ep r ges es t b po igok eos n -are
r s sh te ap i fpo fmr ,t e n to t hn s e, I Whn el oa l mpn fd eu’ ns l ’, s e dx Pyc rœ k el e sl s-e fn r st i t e a n ff d fu l l yf wi l al am sn d e bn et f c e o mr ma it in ne i, gs t p t r oso a m le ts hp it nk h sto ol red es a as n da tg ha ey y/ l e ts hb ii nan k d ti hs at tr i b tu ht eo rr e 's b y n o tg he in ne gr a l h eb ro eo k f- or
there might be some kind of plot going on. After them. They're wrong, of course. They need to be
aboutthe 15th or 16th absolutely glowing review, the stocking feminist and lesbian and gay books because
sales manager caught my eye and pulled me aside ct uh ste oy m e ra sl . l A h nda v we e f he avm e i n a i ls ot t oa fn d ot h l ee r s b ki ina dn s oa fn d b o og ksay
to ask if possibly the booksellers were getting some
kind of extra discount or something to advocate for they could be selling, too. Their own prejudices are
Inland. I had to have some sympathy for her con- hurting them, but that’s how prejudice works. Some
crn, having just heard watched one of the most people want us to distribute only feminist and les-
demanding, critical, and perfectionist feminist book- bian, or gay, lesbian, and feminist books, but distri-
sellers Vve ever known look her in the eye and say, bution works best with a wide range of titles,
But Inland doesn't make mistakes” — a statement no publishers, and booksellers. You need that wide base
one in her right mind would believe about a distrib- to be financially viable.
utor, so why should she? I always respect a healthy “Working with the small presses we're always
paranoia but I had to explain that feminist booksellers on the cutting edge of what's going on. There was a
here are a rather independent and anarchist lot and time when we (our generation) were the cutting
that you couldn't get them to take a united stand edge. We're not now. To continue to succeed at this
against their will if their livelihoods depended on it. job, we have to say alert and pay attention to the next
The only reason that so many booksellers were rec- generation. We have to keep the door open to new
ommending that Women’s Press go with Inland was ideas. When we get a weird book, we circulate it
that each thought it was the best way for them to get among the staff and get the next judgment. We don’t
the books. It took awhile for The Women’s Press to have to believe in a book or agree with it or even
convince the management upstairs to go with Inland, understand it to distribute it because we do believe in
but they did it, and on the best of adviæœ. — CS O the overall work of small presses. Our job is to pres-
January/February 1992 26 Volume 14 Number 5
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:00:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
ent their books and to make it possible for the ideas Inland is well known in the local alternative com-
to get out. munity as a good place to work for gay people, alter-
“Qur goals are to provide the avenue for publishers native folk and various kinds of “weird” people. Most
to distribute their work and to makea living doing it. Our hiring is done by word of mouth and the staff includes
pleasures are very specific: to get orders out daily and to couples in various forms, various sibling combina-
add to our list of publishers, among other mundane tions (and sometimes someone’s lover), and even a
activities. It’s a hefty responsibility — to the stores, to the mother-daughter and daughter’s-lover grouping), a
publishers and to the people who work here.” lot of people in various recovery groups and people
living in half-way houses as well as cartoonists, a
Some of Inland’s “pleasures” are very visible to novelist, a poet, and half of an electric blues jug band.
booksellers: Inland’s active support for feminist and We're told it’s a homey atmosphere right down to the
lesbian and gay presses and their books. The wide classic never-ending struggle over dishes.
range of titles and publishers distributed. Inland’s
excellent service and friendly, helpful, intelligent and THIS ONE SOUNDS GOOD.
knowledgeable order-takers and sales staff. The ÍEND EM AN AGREEMENT '!
WomenSource catalog, which promotes women’s
books published by women’s presses, is one of many
ways Inland supports feminist bookstores and pub-
lishing. InBook also grew out of Inland’s commitment
to supporting small presses. Improved bookstore dis-
counts reflect a change necessary for bookstore sur-
presses has paid off for Inland in terms of expanding
their list and making it much easier for feminist book-
stores (and other stores) to order books from these
presses. Inland has also pursued Canadian small
presses and has arguably the largest collection of Ca-
nadian published books in the U.S. — including many
strong feminist fiction, non-fiction, and poetry titles.
David suggests that feminist bookstores stock and
promote a “Northern Sisters” section and offers
Inland’s assistance in putting together a Canadian
section and backs that up with a 42% discount on the Inland works to keep staff long term. Part of that
first order for that section. is taking employees seriously — and expecting staff to
take Inland seriously — and remembering that every
single person who works at Inland is unique and
contributes something significant to Inland — even
the people who don't work out long term. There's a
built in assumption that hard work and vision of all
But success is also an inside job. A business is also kinds are to be appreciated.
an organism that requires care and attention and clear What does Inland want to be doing in ten years?
goals. Inland is based on an evolutionary structure In twenty? “That’s easy,” David responded, “We
that assumes that there's more to learn every day and want to be the best small press distributor in the
that while Inland is part of a larger, international book world. If we can get bigger while doing that —
community, it is very much a part of the local, alterna- great!. But we never want to lose sight of who we've
tive communities in New Haven. Inland management been and are to the booksellers. We're having a good
is also very clear that it’s the people who work there tiWme ean'dr eenjo y inhg edoringe so mfethoinrg t halt’is f vieta!l.” O
who do it all.
27 January/February 1992
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:00:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
INLAND
BOOK COMPANY
e $
has enrolled the university press of your choice!
We now carry
Harvard University Press University of Nebraska Press
Indiana University Dress University of Nevada Press
Northwestern University Press University of New Mexico Press
Princeton University Press University of North Carolina Press
— Rutgers University Press University of Texas Press
University of California Press University Press of Colorado
University of Chicago Press University Press of New England
University of Maine Press Yale University Press
and there’s more to come!
(Trade discount items only!)
Inland is proud of our great service, friendly folks and our great selection of
women’s books, magazines, audio/video, calendars and more. Call us today!
800/243-0138 • FAX 800/334-2892
January/February 1992 28 Volume 14 Number 5
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:00:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
By Richelle Van Snellenberg,
University of British Columbia Bookstore
The University of British Columbia Bookstore
will celebrate the first anniversary of its Gay/Lesbian
Studies section in January 1992. The UBC Bookstore
has always carried books on this topic, and had been
discussing establishing a gay studies section on and
off over the past ten years. Space in the book division
has been tight and shelving hard to come by. It wasn’t
until the Bookstore opened a new Health Sciences
branch in town and all the medical books were trans-
ferred there that we came up with adequate shelving
at our campus store for new sections like Gay and
Lesbian Studies.
At a buyers’ meeting in July 1990, a group of us
decided to unite the gay books. Celebration 90: Gay
Games III and Cultural Festival was held in Vancou-
ver in August 1990 and the event was attracting a lot
of (mostly positive) attention. Gays and Lesbians were
in the media and the time felt right.
Since August and September are the busiest times
of the year for us, we chose to postpone the rearranging
of shelves till the late fall, after classes started. In the
meantime, Jennifer Pike, the senior trade buyer, and
Donna Kaye, from the Social Sciences Bookshop, began
poring over trade journals and catalogues in search of
likely titles. They also rummaged through other sec-
tions, such as women’s studies, psychology and sociol- the first courses in the new program. Trade sales in
ogy, in search of titles that could be moved to Gay & Women’s Studies books increased dramatically this
Lesbian Studies. In a store with approximately 70,000 fall and we anticipate that the trend will continue as
trade titles, this is a lengthy process. Due to a very hectic the program grows and as more people become
fall rush we were delayed in the shelf construction, but aware that we carry a good selection of books in this
we managed to get the books out by mid- January. area.
29 January/February 1992
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:00:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Vancouver has two women’s bookstores and one
The long-awaited g cray ea t ib no go k s at o sr ee p, a ra al tl e w Git ah yi /n L e s1 b0 i a nm i l Se ts u d o if es U sB ecC t. i o O n u r a t goal in
sequel to the classic UBC is to respond to requests from faculty and stu-
Pulling Our Own Strings! dents by providing both an academic and a general
selection of books on that topic. As publishers are
o coming out with more varied lists, we want to keep up
In Stitches with what's current. Nonetheless, some customers ap-
pear surprised by the new sign and others are careful
A Patchwork of q not to be noticed browsing in the vicinity. Most people
Feminist bse ue tm t ht eo r e p r ae rf ee r v et ro y l o fc ea wte “ w ouh ta ”t it nh de iy vi d w uaa ln s t w o hn o . t h are eir n ' town,
Humor too shy to ask us about what they're looking for.
and Satire We currently carry about 70 titles and are contin-
ually expanding our selection. We place orders for
Edited by Gloria Kaufman Canadian titles directly with the publisher or distrib-
“Notice to the consumer: Major utor. Most of our orders from small American presses
g —ig Rg itle as M c ao en t a Bi rn oe wd n herein.” g ago e nt th . r o Fu og rh t hB eo o k Ap meo ep rl ie c, a n u n ul nes ivs e rt sh ite yre p i rs e sa s e sC , a n wa ed i a on rder
S“ in tF i o t r ct hh eet s h o w is soe m to e hf n e ’ s u b s m e sw o t vh e co m u rea enr te f, o l ri /f n e br us rnout direct. Some of our bestselling titles: After the Ball by
I've found so far.” Marshall Kirk and Hunter Madsen (Plume); Lesbians
—Mary Kay Blakely in Canada edited by Sharon Dale Stone (Between the
“At last, a use for all those hotel Lines); Buddies by Stan Persky, now in paperback
sewing kits I've collected for (New Star Books); Invisible Lives by Martha B. Barrett
years! /n Stitches will make you (Harper & Row), Social Construction of Lesbianism by
p y —o o Kp u a r t y e so eu Car m l in sb t u oft nrto on ms la an ud g h s inpl gi .t ” C Lie ll li ia a n K i Ft az din erg mer a n ( S a (Cg oe) l; u m O bd id a G Ui nr il vs e ra sn itd y T Pw ri el sig s)h ; t a nL dovers by
“In Stitches will tickle your funny bone, no matter where it's Arena of Masculinity by Brian Pronger, (Summerhill
located! The first collection was so clever, who would have thought this Press). Other titles that seem to have piqued some
would top it?”—Flo Kennedy people's interest include: Lesbian Love Advisor Celeste
“AIl of our voices are here—wicked, sardonic, gently humorous. West (Cleis Press) and Lesbian Love Stories edited by
The wide range of feminist humor is delightfully represented.” Irena Zahava (Crossing Press) — it seems I'm always
—lLinda Bubon, Women and Children First (Chicago) finding a well-thumbed copy of one of these books in
“ oa b s ew ro vn atd ie or nf su ll . y . d .i v ae r s ve e r yco l l fe uc nti no yn , o ff e m a im nu iss ti n g v, i e wb i t oin fg o uan r d r es la at ti ir oi nc ships, a unusual place.
institutions and culture.”—Carol N. Levin, Judith’s Room (New York) Response to the new section has been good. Con-
The best of feminist wit and wisdom—quips, quotes, stories, sidering it has only been in existence for a year, we're
cartoons, photos—all guaranteed to leave you in stitches! pleased with the sales so far. We are still trying to get
a feel for what our customers would like us to carry.
paper $14.95
cloth $29.95 We expect that it will take some time for word to get
around and for us to settle in. Meanwhile, we'll keep
INDIANA on ordering those books.
Richelle Van Snellenberg was an editor and founding col-
lective member of Diversity: The Lesbian Rag from 1988 to
BOrdleorso: m1-80i0n-84g2-t67o96n, IN 47405 PRESS 1 C9 o9 lu1B m. bS ih ae i oos kc su tr or roe en t il ny k Sw oo cr iak i n asg a t . et hh e oU un ri av le r SOs ci it ey o esf British
B o l n d B a v i n c
January/February 1992 30 Volume 14 Number 5
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:00:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
H Ain
Sarah Biondello, the Executive Acquisitions Edi- 400+ journals published by Pergamon as support for
tor at Teachers College Press successfully closed six the illegally fired workers. It was a situation that
months of negotiations in December that led to TCP’s caused a great grief among feminists: the need to
purchase of the Athene series from Robert Maxwell support trade-union organizing conflicting with a
Inc., an affiliate of Macmillan Inc. The final papers healthy and feminist aversion to boycotting women’s
were signed just before the lawsuits tying up the work and writing. Pergamon Press was sold to Elsev-
Maxwell empire hit Macmillan. ier in the Netherlands last year as part of Maxwells
The Athene series, one of the finest and attempts to focus his publishing empire and
earliest collections of academic titles de- to keep it afloat. The union's fight for
voted to women’s studies, Was started reinstatement and back pay fol-
by Phyllis Hall at Pergamon Press in lowed the move to Elsevier.
1981 and was co-edited by Dale Elsevier apparently was not
Spender. The first book in the interested in the Athene se-
Athene series was Spender’s ries and remained with
Men's Studies Modified which, Robert Maxwell Inc).,
along with Ruth Bleier’s 1984 pending sale to TCP. Since
Science and Gender, are among the tiny (in relationship to
the most popular titles in the Pergamon and the bal-
series. Biondello worked on the ance of Maxwell's hold-
Athene series for several years ings) Athene series has
when she worked for Pergamon been separated from Per-
Press (U.S.A.) in the early days of gamon, it is FBN’s assump-
the series and has been very ex- tion that the Athene books
cited to bring the series “back home.” are finally free of this conflict.
“But everyone at TCP,” she told FBN, “has FBN hopes Elsevier will take the ap-
been very supportive and interested and excited propriate steps to resolve the conflict in
by the project.” favor of the fired Pergamon employees. (See espe-
The Athene series became the property of Robert cially FBN V13#5 page 9 and V13#6 page 8.)
Maxwell when Pergamon was acquired by Despite the series’ travels and travails, all 31 of
Maxwell’s holding companies. When Maxwell ille- the books in the series were in print and available as
gally fired trade unionists organizing at Pergamon in the series shifted to the TCP warehouse in January. All
May of 1989, organizers asked feminists and other titles are currently available and ready for shipping.
trade unionists for an international boycott of all Five new titles are in the works: Theresa Isle’s
Pergamon books including the Athene series, and the All Sides of the Subject: Women in Biography will be
Volume 14 Number 5 31 January/February 1992
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:00:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
by Cynthia Cockburn
to claim a right to “equality.”
607/255-2264
available at the end of January; Elise Young’s Keepers Gender, Sexism and the War System, Stories Lives Tell, The
of the History: Women and the Israeli- Palestinian Con- Ideology of Images in Educational Media: Hidden Curricu-
flict will be available in mid-February as will Dale lums in the Classroom, and Hospitals, Paternalism and the
Spender’s Living by the Pen: Early British Women Writ- Role of the Nurse, as well as TCP's 1979 title Feminist
ers; The Knowledge Explosion edited by Cheris Collage.
Kramarae and Dale Spender, a very big collection TCP Director Carole Saltz told FBN, “We try to
that will likely be used as a main text for many weave a sense of the importance of gender and multi-
women’s studies courses, will be published in mid- culturalism into all of our books. These are vital issues
March; and Robin Lakoff’s Father Know Best: The Use in all of our acquisitions decisions, so the Athene series
and Abuse of Power in Freud's Case of Dora will be is a good fit for us. We really wanted to get the series
available in Fall 1992 as will Calling the Equality Bluff: and we're eager to see it expand. It’s a very welcome
Women in Israel. Catalogs with full information will addition to our publishing program.”
be available in March.
Teachers College Press is completely separate
from the Columbia University Press. It is a 50-year-old
press that is a division of Teacher's College of Colum- ae
bia University. It is a relatively small (22 employees)
and very stable press which, like most university- RBS
affiliated presses, seems to be immune from the take-
overs, upheavals, and reorganizations that are too TCP is interested in book proposals that deal
common among the commercial presses. with women’s issues from a radical feminist per-
TCP has worked hard to build a niche for itself spective for the Athene series. They are specifically
over the last seven or eight years and had, at the time interested in books that look at sexuality, reproduc-
that Biondello began negotiating for the Athene Series, tive technology, violence, education, environmental
received a directive from the College to expand. TCP’s issues and other important issues. TCP is also look-
mission is to provide good information and solid ing for books dealing with women’s studies from an
scholarly research, to publish work that bridges the educational perspective with a strong feminist ped-
gaps between theory and practice and between the agogy.
university and educational workplace, and to push TCF, Teachers College, Columbia University, NY
the field to expand and grow. Feminist titles pre- N VY T 1 0 0 027 5. 4O 4rd 9er . f 8ro 0m 0 -T 4CP 4, 5 P -O 6 6B 3ox 8 .2 0 32 —, CCo Slc h es Oter,
viously published by TCP include Mathematics and
January/February 1992 32 Volume 14 Number5
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:00:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
The first set of titles from New York University The first six titles in The Cutting Edge series will
Press’ new lesbian series will be out in June and July. include a very lesbian and never-before-published
Titled “The Cutting Edge: Lesbian Life and Litera- novel by H.D.; memoirs by Natalie Clifford Barney
ture,” it is the first and still the only series from a that have never before been available in English; a
university or academic press that is primarily commit- reprint of Djuna Barnes’ Ladies Almanack with intro-
ted to lesbian issues and scholarship. The series is ductions; a reprint of I Know My Own Heart, which was
edited by long-term lesbian activist Karla Jay and was published by Virago in England several years ago, but
inspired, at least in part, by NYU’s very strong sales was not widely distributed in the U.S.; and two more
of Lesbian Texts and Contexts (published in 1990) which theoretical works, one looking at lesbian writing and
she edited with Joanne Glasgow. writers, the other looking at the ways woman-centered
Strong sales and class adaptations argued the need spirituality exemplifies a lesbian-feminist ethic.
for the series from one perspective. The case for the
series was also all to easily made from an academic
perspective: Despite the growing attention to contem-
porary lesbian writings and experiences, the bulk of the
most important lesbian classics and documents are out
of print and/or have never been in print at all. Works
that have seen print in years past tend to be available
only from rare book dealers, university libraries, lesbian
and gay archives, and private libraries and collections.
The series has two primary aims. The first is to
make available representative examples of neglected
lesbian literature by reissuing selected classics and
publishing unpublished and uncirculated lesbian dia-
ries, letters, memoirs, and novels that have special
interest or significance. The series also aims to present
the “cutting edge” of contemporary scholarship on the
lesbian experience from a wide range of disciplines.
Books in the series will examine and discuss les-
bian visions of literature, politics, art, philosophy,
love, religion, ethics, history and a myriad of other
topics. The series is advised by a twelve-member edi-
torial board that includes Judith Butler, Blanche
Wiesen Cook, Diane Griffin Crowder, Joanne Glas-
gow, Jane Marcus, Biddy Martin, Elizabeth Meese,
Terri de la Pena, Ruthann Robson, Ann Allen Shock-
ley, Elizabeth Wood, and Bonnie Zimmerman.
33
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:00:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Bryher (Winifred Ellerman), her lifelong companion. bastion of the French Academy. Introduction by Karla
Introduction by Cassandra Laity. (July, $12.95 pb, 0- Jay. (June, $12.95 pb, -1178-2; $40 c], -1177-4.)
8147-3488-X; $35 c pl, -3487-1.) Own HR ee ad ri tsc : o v Te hr ee d D ia af rt iee sr on fe a r Aly n n e2 0 0 L i sy tee rar , s , 1 7 I 9 1 K -1n 8o 4w 0, My
provides a veritable Rosetta Stone of lesbian life in the
LESBIAN early nineteenth century. Composed in a secret cipher
(a “kiss” is Lister's codeword for orgasm, as in “Two
TEXTS AND kisses last night, one almost immediately after the
other, before we went to sleep”) and ably decoded by
CONTEXTS Helena Whitbread, the diaries recount Lister’s rela-
tionships, her self-definition, and her strikingly confi-
RADICAL REVISIONS dent and guilt-free outlook. (June, $13.95 pb, -9249-9;
$42.50 c], -9248-0.)
EDMITED BY KARLA JAY In (Sem)Erotics: Theorizing Lesbian:Writing,
AND JOANNE BLASEOW Elizabeth Meese looks at what is at stake in the produc-
tion of texts by lesbian writers and examines the Ways
the “experiences” of the text, and the “experiences” of
The Cutting Edge edition of the Ladies Al- the characters diverge and converge with the writer's
manack will include the introduction Barnes wrote in own biography. Entering into previously forbidden
1972 as well as an introduction by Susan Sniader territory, Meese considers such issues as authorial in-
Lanser. Re-issued to coincide with the 100th anniver- tention, the intersection of life and work, and the sem-
sary of Barnes’ birth, it is a witty zoman a clef about the iotic/erotic space of the woman writer's body. In an
openly lesbian and cosmopolitan community that imaginative, playful, witty (and very readable) fash-
flourished in Paris during the 1910s and 1920s. Written ion, she illustrates the ways in which the relationship
in mock Elizabethan English and filled with ribald of the reader to the texts and its author is often like that
humor, innuendo, and arcane puns, it focuses on the of a lover. (July, $14.95 pb, -5470-8; $40 c], - 5469-4.)
imaginary exploits of the writer and salon mistress
Natalie Clifford Barney ("the Amazon"), and her social
circle which included Romaine Brooks, Radclyffe Hall
and Una Toubridge, Janet Flanner, and Dolly Wilde. It
is arguably the most audacious lesbian text of its time
and was published in a 1050 copy private edition by
Barnes in 1928. It is also currently in print by the
Dalkey Archive sans introductions. (June, $12.95 pb,
-1180-4; $30 cl, -1179-0.)
Every Friday, for half a decade beginning in 1909,
Natalie Clifford Barney hosted the most brilliant inter-
national salon of the day. In Adventures of the Mind:
The Memoirs of Natalie Clifford Barney (translated
by John Spalding Gatton), Barney explores her family
tree, chronicles her friendships and associations, and
preserves the proceedings of many of the salons in- A distinct, woman-based spiritual tradition has
cluding meetings between Lucie Delarue-Mardrus, evolved alongside the boom in feminist and lesbian
Colette, Gertrude Stein, Djuna Barnes and Mina Loy scholarship and activism. The Search for a Woman-
in the distinctive voices of their speakers. While the Centered Spirituality by Annette Van Dyke addresses
first half of the book features male writers, the second the commonalties among the various strands of
half is dedicated to the Academics des Femmes, which woman-centered spirituality and examines the work
she founded in 1927 as retaliation against the male See The Cutting Edge, page 58
January/February 1992 Volume 14 Number 5
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:00:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
By Ann Christopherson we can get these books at 40% when they are first
Women & Children First, Chicago released onto our shelves and into our customers hands,
we are enhancing our reputations and our coffers by
Those of you who already order from the univer- doing so. And weare creating the market in the process,
sity presses should skip right on to the next entry in because we become the place where these books can be
FBN. Who I want to address in this column are buyers found.
who are not set up with reps, who aren't sure they
have a market for university press titles, who suspect
there aren't enough titles on most university press
lists to make it worth their while (or economically
prudent, in terms of discount) to order directly, who
are daunted by the reputation of rigid returns poli- We still have to examine the nagging question of
cies, who are confused (or annoyed) by agency plans, how big the market is from each of our stores and
and who generally find the whole situation too ar- exactly what titles from what presses are suitable. This
cane to deal with. What I want to provide here, using is tricky, since our stores vary as much as they do in
data and procedures from Women & Children First
as examples, are some ideas about why to bother, sions have to be made taking your particulars into
h ato tw en tt io o n g o t o .about it, and what presses to pay most a tc oc o gu in vt e, ya oll u I s oc man e t nh oi tn ik on o f of t o w h b ae t h ouel rp f su al l e so n w et rh eis l ip ko ei n t f o ris
the past year to illustrate the market in a metropolitan
area the size of Chicago. I did a computer print-out of
our sales for the year and reviewed it for university
press data. The figures are pretty rough since I only
sorted for titles we sold five or more of — there are
Let's consider the question of market first, since many university press titles that sell in ones or twos —
there is absolutely no reason to spend time on this and I'm sure I overlooked some presses since I scanned
unless you have enough customers for these books to the list hurriedly, but they give some indication. We
justify it. I guess the key word here is “enough,” since sold approximately 740 volumes. In dollar terms, that
we all certainly have some market, simply because comes to about $11,644 (70 of those were Od Girls at
many university presses publish trade titles in the area $29.95 each; the other 640 I calculate at an average price
of feminist and lesbian studies that are pointedly in our of $14.95.) Add to that another $2,000 to $3,000 for the
speciality. Odd Girls and Twilight Lovers from Columbia, ones and twos we sold, and that makes a university
Women's Friendships from Oklahoma, and Silencing the press contribution of somewhere around $15,000 in
Self: Women and Depression from Harvard are a few gross sales for the year. That’s $9,000 net we otherwise
examples of that. If we don’t sell them, either our would have lost. I should note that we don’t really
customers are missing important books or they are handle textbook orders, so these figures represent sales
buying them elsewhere, neither of which is desirable. If to individual customers.
January/February 1992
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:00:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
other presses carry backlist you may well want to
Hispanic Women Write have, but generally in smaller numbers. If you don’t
want to check out all the presses, you might scan
FBN and review vehicles like Women’s Review of
Books to catch those frontlist ones you don't want to
miss.
Eulogy for a Brown Angel: A So that’s why to do it, from the standpoint of sales
Mystery Novel, by Lucha and reputation, and also a few leads on who to do it
Corpi. 1992. 200 pages. with. Now to turn to how.
Clothbound. If you don't have a rep there are two things you
ISBN 1-55885-050-3 $17.95 can do: get your hands on a copy of the catalog, check
out the terms, put together an order and call or send it.
in; get a rep. I recommend the latter for a number of
From the Cables of Genocide: reasons. A rep can give you information about books
Poems on Love and Hunger, that catalog copy is missing. A rep will nudge you to
by Lorna Dee Cervantes. actually place the order. A rep can help cut red tape if
1991. 78 pages. there are problems or special circumstances. A rep can
ISBN 1-55885-033-3 $7.00 help set up readings if authors are local or on tour. A
rep can get you reading copies if her/his press makes
Arte Publico Press/Univ. of Houston copies available. A rep can help sort through the back-
Housto n 7, 1 3 T -7X 4 9 7 -47 72 60 84-2090 l e ci x os upt nl a tt i no o ng ag e t e t n h ci on y s e t p h tla ie tn l s et . s i t Al fe rs or met ph a t pc ra enf si st eg s ey t o t u hyr ao t u s t a o ra r e e 4 . 0 s h%A o r d tr ie sp d- i sc -an
count without her/his oh-so-divine intervention.
We probably order from 40-plus university And, not the least consideration, university press reps
presses, but it is certainly true that a disproportionate tend to be interesting, knowledgeable, likable people
number of sales come from a limited number of those who yowu'll be happy you got a chance to know.
presses. Looking at our data I came up with the fol-
lowing breakdowns: seven presses have lists that in-
clude 25 or more titles of which we have sold at least
two copies each; four have between 20 and 24; nine
have 10 to 20.
What that means of course is that backlists for
these presses are deep enough to ensure making dis- And now a note on the peculiarities of discount
count when ordering frontlist. It also means that there with university presses, which I still find somewhat
are about 20 university presses that probably should unnerving. For tradetitles, things are straightforward.
be represented in most feminist bookstores. Most presses offer 40% on five or more copies. None
If you have time for 10 but not 20, the following that I know of has stiffer terms than that, and a number
are the most important for us: Indiana, Harvard, of presses actually have more liberal terms. Offering
California, Columbia, Illinois, Chicago, Nebraska, full discount on three, sometimes even one or two,
Minnesota, Michigan and Cornell. Two local presses copies are Arkansas, California, Georgia, North Caro-
are on our list, and it’s probably no coincidence. I lina, Pennsylvania, Texas, Washington, Wisconsin,
suspect many stores will display some regional bias Columbia, Cornell, Indiana, Louisiana State, Rutgers.
in their top 10 for good reason so in-state lists should It is with short-discount titles that things get more
get a careful once-over. And if you have time for complicated.
some more, these are the next to consider: Rutgers, With some presses, short titles get full discount on
Temple, Georgia, New Mexico, Texas, Wisconsin, pre-publication order but revert to 20% on subsequent
Northeastern, Princeton, Yale and Stanford. The orders. With others, short-discount are always short
Volume 14 Number 5
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:00:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
except when ordered through the rep. Yet another offer 50% on books returned without invoice infor-
possibility is that short-discount titles receive full dis- mation.
count if you are established with the press as an That's about all I can think of to say on the subject.
agency account. Here it is in a nutshell: (1) Do order direct; (2) Set up
with a rep either to call on you or talk to you on the
phone (get in touch with the press to find out who the
rep in your area is); (3) Order selectively and conserva-
tively, since you want to avoid dealing with returns; (4)
Keep records on short-discount books and the proce-
dure for getting them in at full discount; (5) Put most
The only way to deal with these variations is to of your time and energy into those presses demonstrat-
keep accurate records on each press, probably in ing a keen interest in quality feminist literature; (6) Be
some convenient place like the Book Buyers Handbook. open to ordering that occasional gem from presses that
If orders need to go through the rep to get discount, rarely otherwise glimmer. And experience the satisfac-
note that the first time you order so you'll know to tion of pleased customers finding those books they
call the rep instead of the press when you need to think they can get only at university bookstores. O
make an interim order. If a titlë is short-discount, be
sure to code that in your inventory records so you WOMEN'S WORK
know that if you re-order after publication, you are
only going to get 20%, a fact that may make you AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA
reconsider whether or not to re-order. And if the press
has an agency plan, consult with your rep on whether LABOR AND DESIRE
it would be advantageous to set you up as an agency
account. Also, keep in mind that short-discount titles Women’s Revolutionary Fiction in Depression America
can be priced higher if they are books you want to by Paula Rabinowitz
carry but cannot get in at full discount. The math is “Labor and Desire is not only a welcome addition to the
simple: multiply the cost by 1.67 and that will give intellectual and literary history of the 1930s, but it stands on
you the figure to price the book at so you can sell it at its own as a powerful demonstration of the merits of combining
a 40% discount. feminist scholarship with a class analysis.“—BGeorge Lipsitz
One reason we balk sometimes at buying univer- 236 pp., $29.95 cloth, $12.95 paper
sity press titles is that even when we have figured out
how to get them in, getting them back out when they COMMUNITY OF SUFFERING
haven't sold can be oppressive, given the stricter re- AND STRUGGLE
turn terms of this group as a whole. It is true that many
presses still require invoice information and have not- Women, Men, and the Labor Movement in Minneapolis,
before-three-months-or-after-twelve-months time re- 1915-1945 by Elizabeth Faue
strictions, and a few still require advance permission. “Every student of American social history will appreciate this
University of Chicago is particularly strict (in fact, it lucid contribution to our understanding of how gendered
approaches unreasonable on the question of the con- expectations helped to shape the course of the American labor
dition of returned books), and others also require movement.”—Alice Kessler-Harris
more pristine returns than the trade presses generally 313 pp., $39.95 cloth, $14.95 paper
do.
That said, university press terms are pretty com- available at bookstores or from
parable to those of all small presses who, because of THE UNIVERSITY OF
their small runs and tighter economic situations feel NORTH CAROLINA PRESS
compelled to be stricter. And many university Post Office Box 2288 - Chapel Hill, NC 27515-2288
presses are following the general industry trend to
extend time limits to include books in print and to Toll-free orders: 1-800-848-6224
January/February 1992
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:00:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
heir Eyes Were
Zora Neale Hurston’s best-loved novel
is now available in a deluxe clothbound
gift edition designed by Barry Moser,
with nine original drawings by award-
winning illustrator Jerry Pinkney,
a foreword by Ruby Dee, and an
introduction by Sherley Anne
Williams. $24.95
Order toll free 800/545-4703 from
niversity of HNlinois Press
P.O. Box 4856 © Hampden Post Office © Baltimore, MD 21211
sE
January/February 1992 38 Volume 14 Number 5
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:00:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Dishing It Out
Dorothy Sue Cobble
NEW IN PAPERBACK Center Stage
Menstrual Health in
An Anthology of Twenty-one
Women’s Lives Contemporary Black-American Plays
Edited by Alice J. Dan and Linda L. Lewis Edited by Eileen Joyce Ostrow
Menstrual health education, menstrual migraine Introduction by Sandra L. Richards
headaches, menstrual synchrony, seasonal variations A unique collection of performance pieces by experi-
in the menstrual cycle, tampon safety, and premenstrual enced playwrights from across the nation, Center Stage
syndrome (PMS) are among the topics discussed in represents an exciting array of innovative scripts:
this interdisciplinary volume. PMS, the subject of one acts, three acts, comedies, dramas, dance, and
much current research and controversy, is a central poetic movement pieces. Accompanied by biographi-
focus. Social scientists will be intrigued by the chapters cal sketches and photographs of the playwrights,
on menopause as a biocultural event and on cross-cul- whose works have appeared in community theatres,
tural attitudes toward menstruation and menopause. on university campuses, on television, and on Broad-
Psychologists, medical professionals, and anthropol- way. “Stupendous.” — Horace B. Caple, Encore.
ogists, as well as social scientists and laypeople inter- Illus. Paper, $19.95
ested in women’s health, will find this an accessible
and necessary volume. “This carefully edited and Labor's Flaming Youth
well-organized volume covers an impressive range Telephone Operators and Worker
of important menstrual topics.” — Barbara Sommer, Militancy, 1878-1923
coauthor of A Practical Guide to Behavioral Research. Stephen H. Norwood
Illus. Paper, $16.95; also in cloth, $37.50
“A vivid and theoretically sophisticated account.. .….
Seed of Sarah The reader comes away from this lively narrative
Memoirs of a Survivor with a strong sense of who these telephone operators
Second Edition were and how they felt about their jobs and their
union.” — Annelise Orleck, Women’s Review of
Judith Magyar Isaacson Books. Illus. Paper, $12.95; cloth, $34.95
“European culture may have failed the human race
during the crucial Holocaust years, but it is vindicated Order toll free 800/545-4703 from
in this memoir in the person of the young Judith
Magyar.” — Freema Gottlieb, New York Times Book University of Illinois Press
Review. Paper, $12.95; also in cloth, $18.95 P. O. Box 4856 • Hampden Post Office
Baltimore, MD 21211
Volume 14 Number 5 January/February 1992
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:00:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
A Modest Proposal
a
If just one Firebrand title
(there are 54 to choose from)
was on the required reading list
of just one women’s studies course
(there are some 3,000 nationwide)
in every women’s studies department
(there are over 600 on NWSA's mailing list)
the following could happen:
1. More readers would be exposed to Firebrand’s award-winning feminist and
lesbian literature — ethnically diverse, varied in genre, risk-taking.
2. Increased textbook sales would move us toward the financial stability that
allows our kind of innovative, progressive, feminist publishing to survive.
3. Our greater visibility would help spread the words from independent women’s
presses“ — book publishing coming out of, and giving back to, feminist political/
cultural/intellectual work.
Consider the Possibilities.
* Firebrand Books is one of several women-owned and controlled feminist publishing
houses in the U.S. For more information contact your local women’s bookstore or
Feminist Bookstore News, PO Box 882554, San Francisco California 94188.
p Firebrand Books, 141 The Commons, Ithaca New York 14850; 607-272-0000
January/February 1992 40 Volume 14 Number 5
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:00:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
By Carol Seajay titles for courses could also be circulated. I believe that
articles like these could be sent to each subscriber on a
Electronic mail is the newest way to communicate regular basis — though I'm not sure how that would be
among the women’s studies crowd. WMST-L, an Elec- billed. The possibilities are endless. Does anyone want
tronic Forum for Women’s Studies, is now available by to conspire in this direction? Maybe these are topics for
free subscription to anyone with access to Bit net or broo k se:ller and publisher meetings at ABA?
Internet. Its primary purpose is to serve the academic
and professional needs of Women’s Studies teachers,
researchers, and program administrators, providing a
forum for users to ask questions and exchange informa-
tion and strategies. WMST-L also welcomes announce-
ments about relevant conferences, calls for papers, job
opportunities, publications, and the like. Future visions
for WMST-L include using it as a central repository for
course materials, curriculum proposals, bibliographies,
and other women’s studies information files.
This forum strikes FBN as excellent way to pro-
mote feminist bookstores and women’s publishers to
women’s studies teachers. I'd like to find a way to
“post” FBN’s list of feminist bookstores on the WMST-L
to help WMST-L subscribers find their closest women’s
bookstore or the bookstore in a city they will be visiting,
or to see if there's a bookstore near a school where
they're considering accepting a job... It seems to me a
good place to “post” an article about why and how
women’s studies teachers can and would want to sup-
port women’s bookstores. Maybe someone would like
to write some general guidelines for ordering textbooks
through a women’s bookstore? It seems a natural way
to circulate concepts like Nancy Bereano’s “A Modest
Proposal” (see elsewhere in this issue), to inform
women’s studies teachers about new and backlist books
from feminist presses and to invite people teaching For those who are already on e-mail, the direc-
women’s studies and gender-related courses to sign up tions are as follows: To subscribe, send the following
for the mailings lists of various feminist presses. A short command via e-mail or interactive message to
note about the advantages to students, teachers, and the LISTSERV@UMDD (if you're on Bitnet) or LISTSERV@-
movement at large of adapting feminist press published UMDD.UMD.EDU (if you're on Internet): “Subscribe
41 January/February 1992
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:00:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
WMST-L Your full name.” For further information on When you get connected you will see the login
WMST-L, contact Joan Korenman, Women’s Studies banner. It will say “This is the WELL." Type in your user
Program, University of Maryland, Baltimore County, name or ”newuser" to register after you see the word
Baltimore MD 21228-5398. 301-455-2040. E-mail: “login:”. Hit the carriage return and proceed through
KORENMAN@UMBC (Bitnet) or KOREN- the self-explanatory registration process. New users get 5
MAN@UMBC2.UMBC.EDU (Internet). hours of free time when they sign up. Your account opens
`If you aren't on an electronic bulletin board, the after one business day if you pay with a credit card.
American Society of Indexers recommends The WELL, I believe that if you enter the command “go WMST-
an on-line service based in Sausalito, California. Like L” at the command prompt after you login, you'll get
most bulletin board services, it provides a variety of to the women’s studies electronic forum. There's some
features of special interest to microcomputer users: con- detail between between FBN’s modem and successful
ferencing, electronic mail, file management and storage, connection that I've yet to understand (Anyone want
and public telecommunications network access (MCI, to coach?), so I can't tell you that for sure.
Bitnet, and Internet), including the huge international If you get into this, there are several other special-
communications network that connects universities, ized lists and conferences of interest. FEMINIST is a
businesses, and research institutions. The WELL is one relatively new list owned by the Feminist Task Force
of the few public places where you can exchange e-mail of the American Library Association. It deals with
and participate in (electronic) conferences with the issues such as sexism in libraries and librarianship,
thousands of sites around the world. The WELL, they pornography and censorship in libraries, racism, and
advise, is very reasonably priced. There is a $10 monthly ethnic diversity in librarianship. Subscription mes-
service charge and a $2.00 per hour user fee which is sages (SUB FEMINIST Your Name) should be sent to
billed by the minute. (I would also add that The Well has LISTSERV@MITVMA (Bitnet) or LISTSERV@
a local reputation as having “alternative values” and a MITMVA.MIT.EDU (Internet). GENDER is a moder-
strong sense of community. Locally the word is that the ated list devoted especially to “discussion of issues
WELL, like Bookpeople, is an outgrowth of the old pertaining to the study of communication and gen-
Whole Earth Access Catalogs/network.) der.” To subscribe, send the following message to
COMSERVEQ@RPIECS (Bitnet) or COMSERVE@
VM.ECS.RPI.EDU (Internet): “Subscribe Gender Your
Name”. [Note: for this list you send subscription re-
quests to COMSERVE rather than LISTSERVE.]
FEMAIL is a moderated list that “exists to provide a
shared communication channel for feminists around
To connect to The Well: All of this, of course, is the world.” Subscription requests should be sent to
modem based. Any combination of computer, modem FEMAIL-REQUESTS@LUCERNE.ENG.SUN.COM.
and communications software can log into the Well. If SAPPHO is a forum and support group for gay and
you have a 1200 baud modem, dial 415-332-6106. If you bisexual women. Membership is open to all women
have a 2400 baud modem, dial 415-332-7398. (If you and is limited to women. For more information con-
want to falk to someone using your own vocal cords tact SAPPHO-REQUEST@MC.LCS.MIT.EDU. More?
(what a concept!), call 415-332-4335. You can also reach MAIL-MEN is “a place of openness and support
the Well through the CompuServe Packet Net (CPN) where men and women can discuss men’s issues."
which greatly reduces long distance access charges. The Send Subscription requests to MAIL-MEN-RE-
rate for CPN is $4/hr., day or night, from most U.S. QUEST@USL.COM. In addition to these, there are a
cities. Call 800-848-8980 and ask for your nearest local vast array of “newgroups" on many related topics...
CPN number. When you connect through CPN it will
say: Host Name. Type “well” and you'll see the WELL Thanks to Jacquelyn Marie/Women’s Studies Librar-
login prompt. The default settings on most communica- ian at UC-Santa Cruz, for bringing this to FBN’s attention,
tions programs works fine in most cases. IBM types and to the American Society of Indexers for their timely
prefer 7 bit/char, 1 stop bit, and even parity. suggestions regarding the WELL. O
42 Volume 14 Number 5
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:00:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
The day began innocently enough. I happened to talk erate image of success: she’s a filmmaker, young,
to Mary Morell (Full Circle) who said, “There's this really third-world, attractive, articulate, credentialed; she’s
wonderful book — you should do something about it in taken seriously and she’s created a career. She models
FBN.” “OK,” said I, and the next thing I knew, Mary had all the things they want for themselves. (When the
convinced me that what this issue really needed was an Moon Waxes Red, Routledge, $14.95 pb, 0-415-90431-
informal poll of feminist booksellers inquiring about their 5; Woman, Native, Other, Indiana University Press,
favorite university press title of the moment. And of course $14.95 pb, 0-253-20503-4)
she was right. “Nothing formal — just off the top-of-the- K. Murphy
head,” she insisted. And so I asked the booksellers I hap- Mama Bears
pened to talk to that week to name and comment on their Oakland, California
favorite university press title of the moment: — CS
From Surviving to Thriving: Incest, Feminism,
and Recovery by Christine Dinsmore is dynamite! It’s
very much about moving beyond incest — not just
surviving it. Very feminist. Very, very good — all the
way through. None of the 12-step cult approach. We
initially ordered only five copies because we were
concerned that it might be more aca- demented than
feminist, but it’s excellent. We liked it (a lot) and expect
to sell a lot of copies over time. (SUNY, $12.95 pb,
0791406296)
Mary Morell
Full Circle Books
Albuquerque, New Mexico
When the Moon Waxes Red and Woman, Na-
tive, Other: Writing Postcoloniality & Feminism by
Trinh T. Minh-ha. Trinh Minh-ha is teaching locally, so
that accounts for some of her books’ popularity here. Rini Templeton
Her work is highly post-modern and very difficult to I'm selling a lot of Both Right and Left Handed:
read if you're not into it. But what we're seeing is that Arab Women Talk About Their Lives by Bouthaina
young, college-age women trying to reconcile their Shaaban right now. It reads really well and it’s what I
academic interests and feminism are looking to her for recommend to women who say they wish they knew
an image of how to make their way in the world. For more about the lives of Arab women... The author is
this set among our customers she’s an urban conglom- Syrian and tells of her own experiences of fighting for
43 January/February 1992
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:00:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsan education and a career, her father and brothers’
COMING IN decision to disown her when she married someone who
was not their choice, as well as harrowing stories about
seeing her mother against her father’s wishes. She also
interviews women from a variety of backgrounds and
GENDER AND a number of different women’s groups — some auton-
KNOWLEDGE omous and some under the auspices of various political
Elements of a Postmodern Feminism and religious groups. Shaaban’s interviews and de-
Susan J. Hekman dsc ur ri ip nt gio n ts h e a r ie n t s eo r v iv ei wvi sd . Yt oh uat c y ano u a lf mee ol s t y fou ee'r l e t hin e t eh ne e r gr yoom
“Hekman’s extremely timely and valuable work crackle and shift when (for example) the husband of one
Tt sha hk i epe s s e b u e tp t ww, o e i en pn e r a f s pe s m ey ci ts n it vie s em m s a t ai a rc n e d w u a p sy uo, as lt lmt yh o e d s ee r er ne nl ia st ami so .n- o Shf a at bh ae n w vo em rye n e fw fea clk tis v ei ln yt o c ot nh ve e y r so o tm he d iu mr min eg d iaa tn e i sn ht ie fr tv i e inw. .
divergent: feminist philosophy, maintaining topic and body language. She’s very articulate and very
an ontological, epistemological, and ethical clear about her own perspective and analysis while
p pf a on ro stu i m v n oe idd s le es ra ge nt in ei so m dtn i , a a bl pl yi o s f sm c ire tim, t ii oc i i nzi n is n i gn f r e oto h r eo nt nae motd tiu o o nr ri e a n o lf o t jar uh de ge x mn po ee nt ri tio e n n a c n eo d;f l e te p it oit nti o .n m g T i hz t e eh s e b t ohv oea k r i v o weu r as y s w obo rem is gte i nn o a’s lf l y e tx h pp e ue r b fi le ie sn m hc ee in d is s t bta yn r d e T. s he H a ere cr h b to ro ak di-
action, is seen as nihilistic in its tendencies. Women’s Press/U.K. It was written for general readers,
By focusing on the commonality of the critique rather than academicians, but the author is so careful
both perspectives offer of Enlightenment and accurate in research that it’s also useful for course
rationality, Hekman argues that they can
c Po om sp tle mme on dt e e rac nh i so mthe r c i an n v e r sy h oim wp or t ta hnt a t w a y ts h. e acceptance adaptations. (Indiana, $12.95, 025320688X.) Kris Hoover
of any dichotomy (and Hekman here focuses Amazon Bookstore
on the rational versus the irrational, subject Minneapolis, Minnesota
versus object, nature versus culture) will lead
to a valorization of one at the expense of the
other. Feminism, on the other hand, can extend
Foucault’s notion of discourse theory and offer
an understanding of how gender is constituted
by language. The book is an excellent resource
for feminist theorists. Hekman’s discussion
includes virtually every major contributor to
the philosophical foundations of feminism,
and her bibliography is unusually extensive Period Piece by Gwen Raverat is wonderful biog-
fan ied ld sc .o m Hp igle ht le y, rd er ca ow min mg e n f dr eo dm .” a — w Cid he o i cr eange of r ma ep h ty o. A re a df r i ie tn d i n c a tm hee pin r o ca en sd s . b (o Uu ng ih vet r ss ii tx y c oo fp i e Ms i ca hn id g a ng ,ot
Paperback available in April $12.95 $12.95 pb, 0-472-06475-4.)
Odd Girls and Twilight Lovers by Lillian Fader-
The Northeastern Series man is selling great for the price. It’s really important
in Feminist Theory t sh era it e s .C o (l Cu om lub mia b ii as , d $o 2i 9n .9g 5 s cu lc ,h 0 2a 3 1v 0i 7si 4b 8l 8e 3 .)g a Wy e 'a rn ed a ll se osbian
selling a lot of Alchemy of Race and Rights by Patricia
Williams. At first a lot of readers thought it would be too
academic for them, but it’s very readable and interest-
ing. She takes a very feminist view of the law and writes
about being a Black woman law professor as well as
about the intersections of law, race and gender. It’s very
autobiographical and that makes the big difference. It
BOSTON covers a lot of ground, including sexual harassment.
Volume 14 Number 5
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:00:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Patricia Williams got a lot of attention and was quoted I like Rape of the Wilds perspective and eco-
everywhere during the Anita Hill/Clarence Thomas feminist approach. The idea of taking the patriarchy
hearing. Harvard was so excited that when they ran out out of things is very exciting and the book does an
of cloth copies they reprinted in paper. We sold 100 excellent job of that. It’s very clear how patriarchy and
copies of the $25 cloth edition before the paperback (male) patriarchal values violate animals and the
came out. She's teaching at the university here, so that earth. It’s a wonderful book. (by Andree Collard with
accounts for part of the sales, but I think it should sell Joyce Contrucci, Indiana, $8.95 pb.)
well in other stores, too. ($10.95 pb, Harvard.) Tom Brandeberry
Sandi Torkildson Valley Women’s Bookstore
A Room of One's Own Fresno, California
Madison, Wisconsin
Everyone Here Spoke Sign Language: Heredi-
tary Deafness on Martha’s Vineyard by Nora Groce
has been out for a while but it’s one of my favorite
books. It's tells of a community on Martha’s Vineyard Showing Our Colors: Afro-German Women
with a large number of deaf residents where both Speak Out is a moving, ground-breaking book, docu-
hearing and deaf people use sign to communicate and menting the history of white racism against Blacks in
hearing people find their own uses for the language Germany and its effects on Black German women. It
— such as land to sea communication and communi- presents the experiences of fourteen Afro-German
cation during storms. It’s a heartwarming story of women who have lived through different periods of
what can happen when enough people care. ($8.95 pb, German history, usually with little or no contact with
Harvard, 0-674- 27041-X.) other Blacks outside their immediate families. Since its
Mary Lowry original publication in Germany in 1986 the book has
New Words had a tremendous impact. In the preface to this En-
Cambridge, Massachusetts
book inspired the formation of the Afro-German
movement and provided a starting point for discus-
sions of racism and sexism for both Afro-German and
white women in both Germanies. In the East racism
was “illegal” and “didn’t exist” therefore couldn't be
talked about at all. In the West the book helped to
break through [some] white women’s guilt and immo-
I'd have to say In Stitches: A Patchwork of Fem- bilization and aided them in'becoming allies to Afro-
inist Humor and Satire edited by Gloria Kaufman — German women. Audre Lorde points out that prior to
because it’s funny and we need that. There's a group the book, Afro-German women didn’t havea name for
up here called the Oregon Citizen's Alliance (OCA) themselves or a common cultural identity and how
that’s putting a measure on the ballot that will make essential that identity has become. There’s a lot for us
it illegal to put things like gay and lesbian rights [here] to learn about both the dynamics of racism and
initiatives on the ballot. It’s very scary. There's another of survival from listening to the women in this book.
group called the Average Citizens of Oregon (ACO) (Edited by Mary Opitz, Katharina Oguntoye and
that is doing counter-organizing and offers on ongo- Dagmar Schultz, translated by Anne V. Adams. Fore-
ing parody of the OCA. We need the humor to get us word by Audre Lorde. $13.95 pb, University of Mas-
through. (Indiana, $14.95 pb, 0-253- 20641-3.) Izzy Ha srachbusetats uPresgs, 0h-870 23 -76R0-8.)ose Katz
Mother Kali’s Black Oak Books
Eugene, Oregon Berkeley, CaliforniaO
Volume 14 Number 5 45 January/February 1992
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:00:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
The following letter by Suzanne Hildenbrand is reprinted the Status of Women in Librarianship wrote a shorter
from the November 1991 issue of Women in Libraries. letter that was, it seems, too late. (She later showed
that it was common for letters in response to articles
A persistent puzzle for those doing historical re- to appear months and issues after the original article.)
search in librarianship is the lack of feminist or While all this was taking place, several of us were
women’s interest material in professional library liter- working to establish a women’s interests group in the
ature. Some recent experiences may shed light on the International Federation of Library Associations. It
question. Historians, such as Dee Garrison, research- was called to my attention that a piece had appeared
ing in library literature, note with amazement how in WLW Newsletter on the, er, patriarchal structure of
little protest is expressed by library women over their IFLA meetings. This piece had been rejected by Amer-
status. Maybe the phenomenon is simply censorship ican Libraries as presumably too controversial since it
in support of professional image. allegedly attacked a foreign organization.
What is going on here? 1) The historical record is
being distorted. It is being made to appear that Amer-
ican library women silently and submissively accept
denigration and insult. 2) Intellectual freedom is once
again exposed as something that gets little more than
lip service. 3) Questionable editorial judgment is being
displayed. Surely it is professionally more stimulating
to print letters reflecting disagreement and contro-
versy. The only letters printed on the article question-
ing women’s competence were by men and two were
highly laudatory and one was mixed in its praise.
It is important to note the two incidents of rejec-
tion took place under two different editors. This is not
a matter of personalities; it is a matter of institutional-
ization. American Libraries seems determined to pres-
ent to the world a picture of bland, middle-class
professionalism. Outsiders, such as budget-cutters or
the incredible self-appointed censors may make trou-
ble for us, but we are just one big happy family with
relatives overseas who are basically just like us. This
is patently untrue. When I expressed my indignation
over the article bashing women in public libraries to a
woman academic librarian, I was told that I was “too
Artist unknown, reprinted from Progressive Librarian sensitive” and that there really was something the
In December of 1990 an article appeared in Amer- matter with public libraries and/or librarians. (The
ican Libraries, written by a woman public librarian, speaker feels herself immune evidently and is ready
indicating that women in public libraries were not to believe bad things about women in public libraries.)
choosing books suitable to the interests of male read- All of us know of the negative attitudes expressed
ers. Several of us were irate about this and I wrote a towards certain specialities, particularly children’s
lengthy response. Too lengthy, I was told, and so it work and cataloging. Attitudes towards non-profes-
could not be published as either a letter or column (On sionals are sometimes primitive. Clearly we are not
My Mind). Diedre Conklin, chair of the Committee on See Feminist Dissent, page 111
January/February 1992 46 Volume 14 Number 5
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:00:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Black Oak Books 9 Woman Native Other, T. Trinh, Indiana University
Women’s Section Press, $14.95pb.
Berkeley, CA 10 Gender Trouble, J. Butler, Routledge Chapman
July-December 1991 Hall, $13.95pb.
10 Women’s Freindships, S. Koppelman, University
Toward a Feminist Theory of the State, C. of Oklahoma Press, $12.95pb.
Mackinnon, Harvard University Press, $12.95pb. 10 Feminism Postmodernism, L. Nicholson,
Feminism Without Illusions, E. Fox-Genovese, Routledge Chapman Hall, $14.95pb.
University of North Carolina Press, $24.95cl. 10 Feminisms, R. Warhol, Rutgers University Press,
Third World Women and the Politics of Femi- $22.00pb.
nism, C. Mohanty, Indiana University Press, 11 Conflicts in Feminism, E. Keller, Routledge Chap-
$14.95pb. man Hall, $15.95pb.
In a Different Voice, C. Gilligan, Harvard Univer- 11 Gender at the Crossroads of Knowledge, M.
sity Press, $12.95pb. Leonardo, University of California Press, $14.95pb
Life of Her Own: A Countrywoman in France, E.
Carles, Rutgers University Press, $19.95cl.
In Stitches: Feminist Humor and Satire, G. Kauf-
man, Indiana University Press, $14.95pb:
Odd Girls and Twilight Lovers, L. Faderman, Co-
lumbia University Press, $29.95cl.
I...Rigoberta Menchu, R. Menchu, Routledge
Chapman Hall, $15.95pb. Women & C h iC cah goil , d Ir Len First
Meatless Days, S. Suleri, University of Chicago = 1991
Press, $9.95pb.
Whose Science Whose Knowledge, S. Harding, 1 Odd Girls and Twilight Lovers, L. Faderman, Co-
Cornell University Press, $12.95pb. lumbia, $29.95
When the Moon Waxes Red, M. Trinh, Routledge
Chäpman Hall, $14.95pb. homa, $12.95
LHuaclel ,I r i$ga1r4ā.y9; 5 Mpb. .W h:itford, Routledge Chaprnan 3 F$e1m2.i9n5ism Unmodified, C. MacKinnon, Harvard,
Reflections on Gender and Science E. Keller, Yale 4 I Came a Stranger: The’ ‘Story of a'Hull House
University Press, $9. 95pb. ` Girl,B. Satt Palacheck, Illinois, $12.95
Feminism Without Women, T. Modelski,
Routledge Chapman Hall, $13.95pb. 5` SJilenaccinkg ,t he HSelaf:r Wvoamrend a,n d $De1pr9es.si9on5, D .:
Incidents in the Life of a Slave Girl, H. Jacobs, 6 Toward a Feminist Theory of the State, C. Mac-
Harvard University Press, $10. 9apb. Kinnon, Harvard, $19.95
47 January/February 1992
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:00:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms7 Creation of Patriarchy, G. Lerner, Oxford, $9.95 18
8 Making Connections, C. Gilligan, Harvard, $10.95 fornia, $12.95
9 White Awareness, J. Katz, Oklahoma, $11.95 19 Sor Juana, O. Paz, Harvard, $14.95
10 Woman/Native/Other, T. Minh-ha, Indiana, $14.95 20
11 In Stitches, G. Kaufman, Indiana, $14.95
12 Opening the Gates: A Century of Arab Feminist
Writing, Badran and Cooke, eds., Indiana, $17.50
13 Beyond the Veil, F. Menissi, Indiana, $8.95
14 Lesbian Psychologies, Illinois, $14.95 Ottawa Women’s Bookstore
15 Sexual Orientation and the Law, Harvard, $9.95 Ottawa, ONT
16 Feminist Ethics, C. Card, Kansas, $14.95 1991
17 Redressing the Balance: American Women’s Lit-
erary Humor From Colonial Times to the Pres-
ent, Walker and Dresner, eds., Univ. Press of lumbia University Press
Mississippi, $17.95
WOMEN’S FRIENDSHIPS CONVERTING THE WEST
A Collection of Short Stories V TTS a A BACKA YAY
Edited and with an Introduction and Afterword By Julie Roy Jeffrey
by Susan Koppelman Volume 3 in The Oklahoma Western Biographies
“Koppelman has put together a collection that is “A major contribution. Promotes understanding
nothing short of engrossing, a collection that, like its both of Narcissa Whitman as a woman of her time
subject, reverberates in the mind and fills the imag- and circumstance, and of the character of the early
ination with rich possibilities. Every story here is a missionary effort in the Pacific Northwest.” —Dr.
fg oe rm . ” e— A an nn de t t Te eK o Ll ao yd n y of, a tu ht eh o Lr o df The Land Be- SIuiseant Armitage, Washington State University,
e H r h a n .
$24.95 cloth; $12.95 paper $24.95
TEXTUALIZING THE FEMININE MADONNA SWAN
On the Limits of Genre A Lakota Woman’s Story
LAAS Ea a rle As told through Mark St. Pierre
Volume 7 in the Oklahoma Project for Discourse and “Madonna Swan-Abdalla’s is a story of classical
Theory struggle and ordinary acts of sadness and strength . .….
“ʻA thoroughly remarkable book. Shari Benstock not only for those interested in learning more about
demonstrates on every page the benefit of ‘French contemporary Lakota life, but for anyone who
[eTe nAn C) tatie Giai E S NS S e ei knows what it is to struggle courageously against
text of femininity . ..she does so with wit, learning great odds.” —Louise Erdrich.
and great resourcefulness.” —Peggy Kamuf, Uni- NEAS
NSA AKIR i iy Oroua
$24.95 cloth; $12.95 paper +,
ID Na S N P qLa
~
— ,o, NQ
NS
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:00:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
vberlsiety Prreessn. (aThiiss s saeenmsc teo. )b e ePnjaoysinagd ae nverait,a - PCagAe One
3 Madwoman in the Attic, Gilbert and Gubar, Yale Top Three
University Press
4 Re(Dis)covering Our Foremothers: Nineteenth 1 Odd Girls and Twilight Lovers, L. Faderman, Co-
Century Canadian Women Writers, Lorraine lumbia University Press
McMullen, University of Ottawa Press 2 In a Different Voice, C. Gilligan, Harvard Univer-
5 Writing in the Father's House: The Emergence of sity Press
the Feminine in the Quebec Literary Tradition, 3 Father Daughter Incest, J. Herman, Harvard
Patricia Smart, University of Toronto Press. (This
book was originally published in French in 1988
and won the Governor General’s Award — this
is a very big deal in Canada — it was translated
into English in 1991.)
6 Street Kids: The Tragedy of Canada’s Runaways,
Marlene Webber, University of Toronto Press
7 The Alchemy of Race and Rights, Patricia Wil- 1
liams, Harvard University Press Inlands
Favorite University Press Titles
“Oh, yes, we like these women’s titles from univer-
sity presses.” — Mev Miller
New Words HARVARD UNIVERSITY PRESS
am oa The Alchemy of Race and Rights: Diary of a Law
Professor, Williams
1 O lud md ob G iai r l Us f n ia vn ed r s i T tyw i l P ig rh est s C Lovers a, L. lFad ierm fan, Co o- rn i. F IF na e a t m h aie nr Di- sD im fa fu e g rUh ent nme tr a o d VI in of ic i c:e e es d ,t , , G MH ilae lc i r gKm ai nnan n :on :
2 Banan sas, B ieach tes an yd Bases, C. E nloe P, Unive rrsity ess M aking: Connections, Gilligan
3 In A Different Voice, C. Gilligan, Harvard Univer- NoD A Women: The MedernPeriod,
Real Rape, Estrich
4 N my of Race and Rights, cl, P. Williams, Har- Toward a Feminist Theory of State, MacKinnon
5 Lofe s Iblliinaonis Psychologies, ed. by M. Bragg, University PRINCETON UNIVERSITY PRESS
6 Toward A Feminist Theory of the State, C. Mc- Artemisia Gentileschi: The Image of the Female
Kinnon, Harvard Hero in Italian Baroque Art, Garrard
7 Father Daughter Incest, J. Herman, Harvard George Eliot and Herbert Spencer: Feminism, Evolu-
8 A val rc dh *emy of Race and Rights, pb, P. Williams, Har- Polit it ci so n ois fm , t h a en d S e lR f:e c o Fn emstr inu ic st mio n a n o df tG he en d Pe or s, t m P oa dx et ro nn in
1 09 L M anak di snR cg ap eC o fn on reu c at i o Gn os, o t d C . W G og mill ai nga , n , C e . H Sa tr ev dar mrd an,s eT Wom W ene s t a n dG e :r Pm uba ln ic L Pi t oe lir ca it e:u s,r e G a en lbd Film1, McCSormick
Women in Western Political Thought, Okin
11 W hcoseo Smciencea, Wl ho se S KnYowlRe dgAe, SC. HUardinSg, E Th e WUomenN’s LIibVeratiEon R MovSemIenTt iYn Russia, Stites
*Alchemy of Race and Rights ranked in the top ten in | Stories of Contemporary Irish Women, Casey
both cloth and paperback editions. Unveiling a Parallel, Jones/Merchant
Volume 14 Number 5 49 January/February 1992
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:00:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA Westward the Women: Anthology of Western Sto-
Bananas, Beaches & Bases: Making Feminist Sense ries by Women, Pierkarski ed.
of International Politics, Enloe
Between Feminism and Labor, Blum UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA
Feminism and Politics, Gelb Labor and Desire: Women’s Revolutionary Fiction
The Goddesses and Gods of Old Europe, Gimbutas in Depression America, Paula Rabinowitz
Sappho: A New Translation, Barnard Simone Weil: Portrait of Self-Exiled Jew, Thomas
Strong Mother, Weak Wives, Johnson Nevin
Women and Evil, Noddings Within the Plantation Household: Black and White
Women of the Old South, E. Fox-Genovese
UNIVERSITY PRESSES OF NEW ENGLAND
Edith Wharton’s Women, Goodman
Latin American Women and the Search for Justice,
Miller
UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO More Joy than Rage: Crossing Generations with
Black Women in America, Mason, etal. the New Feminism, Rivers
From Reverence to Rape: The Treatment of Women Sarah Orne Jewett: An American Persephone, Sher-
in the Movies, Haskell man
The Lesbian Issue, Freedman, etal. Women Writing in America: Voices in Collage,
Oglala Women, Powers Gelfant
Women, History and Theory, Kelly
UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS PRESS
UNIVERSITY OF NEBRASKA
Djuna: The Formidable Miss Barnes, Field
Ame r Bi ac ta an i l leIn /d Saia nn d s Women: Telling Their Lives, Gay ia nn gd , FL oe ss tb eia rn Themes in Latin American Writ-
T Th he e B Bi oo og kr a p ofh y P ro of m eA tl hic ee a , B C. i xT oo uk slas, Simon H Ao w R o sT ao r i oS u Cpp asr te es ls l a nW oso m Re en a’ ds e rW , r Ait hin erg n, , J eo ta an l.na Russ
Feminist Utopias, Bartowski Women of the Left Bank: Paris 1900-1940, Benst-
Gent Ble r o T wa nmers: Women of the Old Wild West, Wom o eck n Writers of Latin America: Intimate Histo-
Pret t Ly i- nS dh ei re mld a: n Medicine Woman of the Crows, ries, Pinto
Willa Cather in Person, Cather (and other Cather
books, too)
UNIVERSITY OF NEVADA
Women of the Apache Nation: Voices of Truth,
Stockel
YALE UNIVERSITY PRESS
UNIVERSITY OF NEW MEXICO Feminism and Psychoannalytic Theory, Chodorow
Daughters of the Desert: Women Anthropologists, Femi nistK Compainionn to Lniteratuore inn Engli sh, BlainO
Babcock Sexual Harassment of Working Women, Mac-
Untold Sisters: Hispanic Nuns in Their Own
Words, Powell, tr.
Western Women: Their Land, Their Lives, N.B. This is not a complete list of all the University Press
Schissel titles we carry — only a few of our favorites.
January/February 1992 50 Volume 14 Number 5
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:00:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Vz 7Y
ooo 9
By Carol Seajay the rights of women, blacks, gays and lesbians — in
essence, a good portion of ACRL membership.”
Boycotting States that Abuse Women: The
American Psychological Association will not hold its
1997 annual meeting in New Orleans as originally o00 S! 92
planned. The Association, which affirmed abortion as
a woman's “civil right” two years ago, is protesting all th eK u bd oo os k: s N toa ria ed s ih na s t ho en c e U . Sa .g a tin h a tp u sb tl oi cs kh e d 7 5 %a li os ft to hf eir
L chou oli osi ga in sta' ss ar te ts et nr dic t Aiv Be A a b ao nr nt uio an l mla ew e. t i nO gv se .r 10,000 Psy- titles and mailed it to their entire mailing list — a
The Women’s Studies Section of the Association wonderful and generous piece of work that always
of College and Research Libraries (ACRL), a division brings new customers into the stores and thus intro-
of the American Library Association (ALA), has can- duces Naiad’s mail order customers to books by all of
c Ae Cle Rd L a mll e eo tf i n gth s e i ir n s Uch tae hd u l ae nd d p ir so g er na cm ous r aa gt i n t gh e a l l1 9 m92 em- t Nh ae i a dp u pb uli bs lh ise hrs e s s t ao nc dk e dd i s tb ry i b ut th ee s s tt ho ir se s . l i sE t v e ir t y r ey mea inr d sw h men e
b frer ees d ot mo t oa fk e i nt fh oe r m is as tu ie os n o if n t or e p cr oo nd siu dc et riv ate i o nfr e ie nd o m re a ca hn id ng t nh ita yt w ane d a r the a ta tb ho eo k mse oll rin e g w / e b o so hk ar ep u ob uli rs h rin esg o u c ro cm esm au n- d the
their decisions about attending the conference. The stronger each of us becomes, the stronger we all are —
site is being protested for a number of reasons includ- individually and as a community.
i ln arg iU mt pa ah c’s t r oe ns t r pi oc ot riv e a n a db o ir lt lii to en r a tla ew , w ot mha et n , l a aw n' ds p thar eticu- Hungr T yh e M iA nm d e r (Bic oa on k s tB oo ro ek )’s se l l le isr t r oe fc e n 4t 0l 0y op fu b tl his eh e bd e sT the
W suco hm e fn o’s r m S st u d oi fe s s eS xe ic st mio n as n ds t a rt ae cd i s mop .position to all w mo ur ltk is c u o ltf u r f ali c t ai non d mwr ui lt tt ie rn ac i aa lf t e cr ol. le W ctW ionII . b I at s e dis oa n r bic oh tl hy
sales and a readers’ survey. One could argue, of
course, that there aren't enough women’s, feminist,
o O 92 N lesbian and gay titles, but it is an awesome list featur-
ing three Seal Press titles, a Press Gang, a Naiad, and
The Women’s Studies Section unanimously de- a Feminist Press title. Poring over it made me feel as
cided that Utah's severe restrictions on the ability to though we — the largest collective we — really have
dispense information about abortion, reproductive al- raised the standards and definitions of quality litera-
ternatives and sex education also violate the Library ture in our times.
Bill of Rights and are therefore of legitimate and seri-
ous professional concern (as well as of strong personal Bad News: The Michigan Womyn's Music Fes-
concern). As the Women’s Studies Section wrote to the tival producers have decided to reduce the number
ACRL and the ALA, “How ironic that you could of booths available to publishers, periodicals, and
choose to have a conference focusing on excellence in single title booksellers in order to increase the num-
a state that could win excellence awards for the sup- ber of booths available to artisans. Of the remaining
pression of information as well as the suppression of “print” booths, priority will be given to businesses
51 January/February 1992
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:00:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
(bookstores?) offering a selection of books and peri- went out in the 70s. One required course in women’s
odicals. While this decision makes financial sense liberation for that department.
(single-title book publishers don’t generate as much Word is that Lynn Andrews’ next book is about
revenue as craftswomen with higher priced mer- one of her future lifetimes. Wake me up when this is
chandise and thus pay lower rent for their spaces) it over.
is an odd decision at a time when other festivals are Or am I having nightmares? Does it make anyone
highlighting the written contributions to lesbian cul- else nervous that The Carlyle Group (buyers of Baker
ture. One suggestion has been that the festival create and Taylor) includes Frank Carlucci, Reagan's Secre-
a print area outside the craft area for writers, editors tary of Defense (1987-1989 and Deputy Directory of
and publishers that would honor these producers of the CIA from 1978-1981) and Frederic Malek, director
lesbian culture and offer opportunity for networking of the 1988 Republican Convention and Bush's ap-
and sales at a minimal fee. For more information, to pointee to direct the 1990 Economic Summit of Indus-
protest this decision, or to suggest that the Festival trialized Nations) who, among others, plan to make
find an alternate way to include the written part of Baker & Taylor the single largest source of English-
lesbian culture, write to Lisa Vogel and Boo Price, language books in the entire world. Why do I trust this
Michigan Womyn’s Music Festival, Box 22 Walhalla about as much as I trust CNN’s “objective and critical
MI 49458. reporting” during the Gulf War? Why would the right
neiend cfensoorsrhipm if ait t caino cnontr?ol the distribution of
O O o0 But, Hey! Even my local, anti-union, printers’
association celebrates International Printing Week
Pandora Press, created by Philippa Brewster as an with this “fun fact for printers:” “Freedom of the Press
imprint of Routledge Kegan Paul (later Routledge is Limited to Those Who Own One.”
Chapman Hall)/Methuen and later sold to Unwin-
Hymanand most recently to Harper Collins, was un- Eco-Action: Eco-Foam is a promising new pack-
able to complete a “buy-out” that would have given aging product that provides an ecological alterna-
the imprint independence when an investor backed tive to Styrofoam “peanuts.” The white nuggets that
out at the last moment. Although the imprint will be comprise Eco-Foam are made of more than 95% corn
kept alive as an imprint of Thorson’s, most of the starch and dissolve in water rather than floating on
fiction on the Pandora list, FBN is told, will be allowed top of it for all eternity. Prices range from 90 cents to
to go out of print (with rights reverting to authors) $1.30 per cubic foot, depending on quantity and
with the exception of Katherine V. Forrest titles which shipping distance. For more information about Eco-
will be reprinted and recovered, possibly under an- Foam contact the American Ecelsior Company, PO
other Harper imprint. Philippa Brewster, meanwhile, Box 5067, Arlington TX 76011; 817-640-2161, Thanks
has moved to Jonathan Cape. to Pokey Anderson from Inklings for the informa-
Hello? Newsweek s November 18 issue did a short
(with photo!) on new lesbian magazine Deneauve ON
under the heading “Women’s Issues.” Seemed like a 0o00 O
thrill until you got through the second sentence. The
first one read, “Even in this depressed magazine mar- Promotion: ‘Tis the time for all good booksellers
ket, there’s still room for new concepts.” O.K. so far. to send a SASE to get the Gayellow Pages listing form.
“Enter Deneauve, a San Francisco-based lesbian maga- (Renaissance House, PO Box 292 Village Station, NY
zine that skewers the stereotape that gay women are NY 10014.)
all man-haters in clogs.” Say what!?. Twenty years of And while you're at it, New Pages is collecting
women’s liberation and gay liberation, and information for the New Pages Directory of Bookstores.
Newsweek's one sentence about lesbians is about how Send them your business card and ask for their form
lesbians relate to men? Get over it boys, that concept by return mail, or call if all else fails. New Pages, 4426
January/February 1992 52 Volume 14 Number 5
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:00:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
S. Belsay Rd., Grand Blanc MI 48439. 313-743-8055. not indicated. Write to the Canadian Book Informa-
Fax 313-743-2730. tion Center, 260 King St. East, Toronto ONT M5A
1K3 for copies.
RA ABACUS Expanded is not a book that your
customers are going to love — but you may. It’s ABA's
report of its financial survey of member bookstores
Last year at ABA there were two booths display- based on 1989 operations. It analyzes data from 175
ing multicultural books: the ABA-sponsored booth bookstore operations with over 265 store locations
and the Multi-Cultural Publishers Exchange booth. across the US and Canada doing a total of $142 million
This year there will be one combined MPE/ABA in sales. The 144 page report looks at such issues as
booth that will display the books, take orders, and profitability, sales per square foot, sales per full- and
create a catalog of all the books. For complete details part-time employee, sales per payroll hour, stock turn-
send a SASE to MPE, PO Box 9869, Madison WI 53715. over, and the percentage of income that goes to inven-
MPE also rents its lists of Black Bookstores (250), Black tory, payroll (with owner’s compensation broken out
Librarians (500), and Black Newspapers (245). separately), and other operating expenses, and net
Resources: The Red Sea Press, publishers and income before taxes. It breaks these figures down by
distributors of Third World Books, has a wonderful general vs. specialty store, by store size, by sales vol-
poster featuring books by and about African and ume, by type of location, by region, and by profitabil-
African-American women that would enhance any ity. ABA defines specialty stores as stores with 50% or
Women’s History Month display. Write or call Red more of its sales in one area. The inclusion of specialty
Sea at 15 Industry Court, Trenton NJ 08638. 609-771- stores makes the study much more relevant to femi-
1666. nist bookstores than it would be without this break-
The National Women’s History Project also has out. Interestingly enough, the research finds that
a number of great (but not free) posters on women’s specialty stores, despite slightly lower turnover than
history themes. Want to have a party? NWHP has a T
new “Women’s History Month Party Kit” complete
with 100 “Celebrate Women’s History” placemats,
24 Women’s History Month Balloons, 30 Write
Women Back into History pencils, and 32 stickers general bookstores, show higher gross margins of
proclaiming “March is Women’s History Month.” sales (39.2% versus 37.8% for general bookstores) and
All for $24.95. 7738 Bell Road, Windsor CA 95492. higher percentage of sales as net income (3.6% versus
707-838-6000. 2.9%) due, it would seem, to more successful targeting
The American Association of Retired Persons is of sidelines, merchandise mix, shorter working hours,
once again giving away a free women’s history and lower payroll expenses. Even with 26 tables ABA-
month poster. For up to 5 free posters write to Na- CUS Expanded isn't exactly a fast read — but it’s well
tional Women’s History Month Poster (D14549), worth poring over for any serious bookseller — espe-
AARP Fulfillment, 601 E Street NW, Washington DC cially once you get your year-end figures in hand.
20049. Essential for any bookseller working out a business
The Canadian Book Information Centre has two plan. $20 to ABA members, $30 for non-members. pb,
(free) catalogs of interest to feminist booksellers. 1-879923-00-9. Order from the ABA membership de-
Books About First Nations and Aboriginal Peoples partment, 560 White Plains Rd., Tarrytown NY 10591.
lists (with descriptions) over 200 books from 60 Ca- 800-637-0037.
nadian publishers. Authors and illustrators of Ab-
original ancestry are indicated as are publishers
owned or operated by Aboriginal people. Women’s
Studies lists and describes about 115 titles. Both cat-
alogs include publishers addresses but not ordering
terms. Women owned and operated publishers are
53 January/February 1992
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:00:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
EMENT S
SR
The ABA board of directors has announced the bian writers of fiction and poetry. Five awards of
third annual program of Minority Bookseller Educa- $11,000 (three in fiction and two in poetry) will be
tion Grants to cover tuition, lodging, meals, and ma- made in June of 1992.
terials for specified ABA Booksellers Schools. Grants Astraea, the first nationwide lesbian foundation,
are open to members of the African-American, Asian- has been a feminist, grassroots-oriented organization
American, Hispanic-American, and Native American since its founding in 1977. Started by a multi-racial,
minority groups. Applicants must either work full multi-cultural group of feminist activists, Astraea has
time (30 hours per week or more) in or own a book- always worked with and on behalf of projects that
store that is a member in good standing of ABA. A contribute to the well-being of women and girls. 1990
total of 15 grants will be awarded. Said Fern Jaffe, marked the beginning of Astraea as the national Les-
chair of the ABA Association/ Membership Develop- bian Action Foundation.
ment Committee, “These grants reflect the continuing Deadline for the 1992 cycle is March 13, 1992.
commitment of ABA to strengthen the role of minority Applicants must have published at least one piece of
booksellers in our industry.” work in a magazine, literary journal or anthology. For
L guidelines, eligibility criteria, and application form,
write to: Lesbian Writers Fund, Astraea National Les-
bian Action Foundation, 666 Broadway Suite 520,
Ten grants will be awarded to the Basic Profes- New York NY 10012.
sional School (May 19-22, immediately preceding the
ABA convention in Anaheim). Booksellers applying for NWSA will hold a conference this year. The theme
this school must work in a bookstore that has been in will be Enlarging the Circle: The Power of Feminist
business for less than two years and grosses less than Education. It will be held in Austin, Texas, June 19-23.
$250,000. Other schools open to grant recipients include This year’s conference will be a hotel-based confer-
Professional (Jan. 30-Feb. 2, Miami); Large Store Staff ence. NWSA hopes to be back up to full speed and full
(March 19-22, Cambridge); Children’s (July 16-19, San size for the 1993 conference. For information on speak-
Francisco); and Professional (Aug. 6-9, Minneapolis). ers, workshops, hotel reservations, book exhibit
Last year’s recipients included Canadian Franco- space, etc., contact Goldie Thomas, Conference Coor-
phone lesbian bookseller France Desilets of Montreal's dinator, NWSA, University of Maryland, College Park
lesbian and gay bookstore, L'Androgyne. MD 20742. Phone: 9 08-84O6- 8812.
For information on how to apply, call Tracy Black
at ABA at 800-637-0037 or 212-463-8450, ext. 203.
The Lesbian Writers Fund ofthe Astraea National Women from the independent women’s move-
Lesbian Action Foundation is now accepting entries ment in Russia write: “There are few of us yet, but we
for the 1992 grant cycle. are determined to do our best in achieving equality
Now in its second year, the Lesbian Writers Fund and liberation for women in our country. With your
was established to support the work of emerging les- See Announcements, page 58
January/February 1992 Volume 14 Number 5
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:00:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
But Can She Type?
ash
By Nett Hart wanted moods that spending brings. Standing behind
our cash registers, we know many of our sales are a
We've survived another December. I don’t mean facade of consciousness, connection, or concern. The
snow and ice for some of us, or even familial obligations, “holiday spirit” entrenches the values of nuclear fam-
but rather the onslaught of dazzled customers looking ilies, individualism and capitalism. No wonder we
for a certain number of gifts at predetermined prices, feel caught in the flow.
“shopping for the holidays” whatever holidays they
may celebrate. December, the month that turns our well
designed spaces, our familiar paces, into mega rat races. $$
Oh, and boosts the cash flow into respectability.
That, of course, is the source of our ambivalence We can take pride in offering merchandise that is
about holiday shopping. On the one hand it becomes socially conscious, supports women’s writing and
like the expected bonus or IRS return — money you craft work, allows us to employ women in the com-
can count on to catch up, spruce up, stock up. On the munity. A thoughtful just-at-the-right-moment social
other hand, the chaos it engenders, the blatant exhibi- action nudge given as a gift may have exponential
tion of consumption, the near loss of contact and affect ramifications for change. Offering the alternative of
between bookclerks and customers, makes for a sort giving gifts of consciousness to our customers allows
o hf a s nw 'to r dld o n ew e rar etin aie ls s i n h a Dr ed c e t mo b ee rx .plain to anyone who t th o e f ag miv ie lr y , t o c o -s wh oo rw k e w rsh , o f rsh iee n di ss ., what her community is,
Yet we're always balancing on fine lines, trying
not to get caught up in the dispirit of the buy, buy, buy
$$ more world, trying to offer goods without manipulat-
ing our customers into more and larger purchases
We could say that in our communities a certain than they planned. We try to promote the works of
number of people will buy a certain number of gifts which we are proud without the competition of the
and that a multiplied certain number of recipients will markets which we parallel and overlap. In other
now receive feminist books and women-made gifts. words, we sell gifts of consciousness in an environ-
Better that than peanut brittle. More thoughtful, more ment of that same consciousness.
lasting, more adventurous. And while this is true, it is How do we keep our equilibrium in these times, in
hardly pacifying. $ this season? Cynicism is not the antidote. It promotes
As merchandisers we don’t have to cop to the poor self-regard and low value for our colleagues,
notion that we are responsible for the habits of con- customers, and work environments. As soon as we feel
sumption, the overspending of our friends and we've given into the pressure of mass culture, our work
customers, and the unfilled needs of the financially loses some of its meaning, begins to feel like a compro-
squeezed. We know a lot of our sales are not about the mise. Ideals and community resourcing created our
exchange of wanted goods, but the change of un- See Nett, page 58
55 January/February 1992
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:00:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
I KNOW MY OWN HEART
The Diaries of Anne Lister, 1791-1840
Edited by HELENA WHITBREAD
“[O]ne may take delight in what is here: the sou-
venir of an unabashed and often triumphant erotic
life....Rediscovered after nearly two hundred
years, the story of [Anne Lister's] desire—and of
the comic, gallant ways in which she satisfied it
—seems especially poignant.’ —The Women’s
New York Review of Books
“A document of one woman’ revolt against conven-
tion and as a celebration of love between women. An
University uplifting book”—The Independent (March)
ISBN: 0-8147-9248-0/ $42.50/Cloth
ISBN: 0-8147-9249-9/ $13.95/ Paper
Press (SEM) EROTICS
Theorizing Lesbian: Writing
ELIZABETH MEESE
What is at stake in the production of experimental
texts by lesbian writers? What motivates these writ-
Announcing a New Series... ers and characterizes their work? What is the nature
of their appeal to other lesbian writers and readers?
THE CUTTING EDGE What, finally, are the continuities and discontinuities
in the tradition of twentieth century lesbian experi-
Lesbian Life and Literature mental writers, from Virginia Woolf to Nicole
Brossard? In an imaginative, playful, and witty fash-
GENERAL EDITOR: KARLA JAY ion, this book addresses these central questions.
(August)
ISBN: 0-8147-5469-4/$40.00/Cloth
THE SEARCH FOR A WOMAN- ISBN: 0-8147-5470-8/ $14.95/ Paper
CENTERED SPIRITUALITY ADVENTURES OF THE MIND
ANNETTE VAN DYKE The Memoirs of Natalie Clifford Barney
Weaving the strands of women’ spirituality from Translated by JOHN SPAULDING GATTON
many different cultures together, Annette Van Dyke With an introduction by Karla Jay
h La B i uls o te r l u err a sde dL t e le t re,s oe y al x i t ,Aea i a nm l Si gM c vi o n e n i a she r i is aW om o w n o at J lnh k o ot e he f h S r n ew i , s sl aok e o nS or wt ,,k wa o r r aP rha in la tn a du d ewd l r a k s b M , w a G sa a r er nMui dyt dn a i n rn oi D ag no cas A n tl y il av lo , e Z i f n s i f tm V, es s a m mu nA c c a euh o l r ed D n r y t f e prki i rg e b iu , n-r ce is ple, m t C BT u o rh e r l om ee oe td ko t si e r ,,Jf s ai , WI mr s ars ie d let s loc i- a o re J mu av on y e t D Ci cr un e an g r, c l oaE E nh sn z ,e r rg Wa A l ii b uP ls lr go ih i au ul ml n s i t a d set n ,, r t R PGa aosn e uda rls lito nl r na , Vu t ad Rwi le eo oh r n m ySic t ,ah e i i no Rn eff , ee n a e-B earney’
Io ( SJn Bue Nl y :w ) h 0-ic 8h 14 7e -x 8e 7m 69p -l Xif /ie $s 4 0 .a 0 0 l /e Csb loi ta hn-feminist ethics. V K sai a lv r oi l ne a n , iJ n a E y d b'sn o a t hil lS u t am. i hV n ii a sn t tic one rgn ic t a i l n M t ai r nl ol da d y u , pc t o ia lo in tnd i c a p lT lr a fcu e rm s a ma n B e a w rC ona rep kyo .'t se.
ISBN: 0-8147-8770-3/$13.95/Paper I( SJ Bu Nly : ) 0-8147-1177-4/ $40.00/Cloth
ISBN: 0-8147-1178-2/ $13.95/Paper
Volume 14 Number 5
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:00:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
PAINT IT TODAY WOMEN, LOVE, AND POWER
H.D. L Ei Lt Aer INar Ey H a On Fd F MPs Ay Nc h o Ba An Ral Uy Cti Hc Perspectives
Annotated and with an Introduction by
Cassandra Laity å “Arguing that romantic love need not be a tool of
women’s oppression, feminist critic Baruch...contends
This never before published work by the famous that unacknowledged male fantasies about love moti-
imagist writer recounts H. Ds affairs with Bryher, her vate much literature by men...rewarding, provoc-
lifetime companion, and Frances Gregg, her first les- ative”—Publishers Weekly
bian love. (August) “Elaine Baruch is not only among the most quiet-voiced
ISBN: 0-8147-3487-1/$35.00/Cloth and fair-minded of feminist writers. She is also among
ISBN: 0-8147-3488-X/ $13.95/Paper the most far-ranging in her scholarship, equally at
ease with the writers of the Renaissance and Freud,
LADIES ALMANACK the medieval troubadours and our contemporary
DJUNA BARNES p —o Dle im ani ac i s Tt rs. i. l. li in ns gtructive, absorbing, and persuasive”
With an introduction by Susan Sniader Lanser ISBN: 0-8147-1155-3/ $28.95/Cloth
“A striking lesbian manifesto and a deft parody
—Library Journal WOMEN ANALYZE WOMEN
Ladies Almanack is a witty roman a clef about the In France, England, and the United States
openly lesbian and cosmopolitan community that ELAINE HOFFMAN BARUCH and
flourished in Paris during the 1910s and 1920s. This LUCIENNE J. SERRANO
e dd ui ct ti io on n r be yp r o fd eu mce ins i st th e s c ho or li ag rin a Sl u sw ano r k Sn, i aw di et rh La an n s ei rntro- g“C leo am nep de ”l —lin Cg o. n..t th emis p ob ro ao rk y h Pa ss y ca h o w loe ga ylth of material to be
that explores its place both in literary history and in “[Baruch and Serrano’s] introduction brilliantly brings
Barnes’ life and work. (July) their prodigious reading to bear on a synthesis of
ISBN: 0-8147-1179-0/$30.00/Cloth interviews and places them in the context of con-
ISBN: 0-8147-1180-4/$12.95/Paper temporary feminism and psychoanalysis.’—Women’s
Review of Books
Also available from NYU Press: “Provocative and exciting”—Choice
ISBN: 0-8147-1170-7/ $12.95/Paper
OUT OF THE CLOSETS
Voices of Gay Liberation ANTICLIMAX
TWENTIETH ANNIVERSARY EDITION A Feminist Perspective on the Sexual Revolution
With a new foreword by the editors and an introduction SHEILA JEFFREYS
by John D’'Emilio “Clearly written, well-supported....A major contribu-
Edited by KARLA JAY and ALLEN YOUNG tion to feminist theory and important no matter where
“It is wonderful to have Out of the Closets again avail- you stand”—Feminist Bookstore News
able....[it] speaks powerfully to the condition of gay “A rigorous, savvy contemporary intellectual history...…
men and lesbians in American life, recounting SOrrows Read this book”—Andrea Dworkin
and joys, offering solace and strategy, celebrating the “Fluently argued...provides much food for thought.”
remarkable diversity and creativity of those who are —Gay Community News
“different’—Martin Duberman ISBN: 0-8147-4197-7/ $40.00/Cloth
“The voices of Gay Liberation are still inspirational as ISBN: 0-8147-4180-0/ $11.95/Paper
we enter the Gay 90s”’—Del Martin and Phyllis Lyon
“Brings to life once again the exciting, heady, first
post-Stonewall wave of gay and lesbian liberation. Will Il
—ap Jp oe nal a t t ho a n a N n ee dw K g ate zn e r (Mat ai ro cn h )of activists and scholars.’ New York University Press
ISBN: 0-8147-4182-7/ $45.00/Cloth 70 Washington Square South, New York, NY 10012
ISBN: 0-8147-4183-5/ $13.95/Paper PHONE: 212/998-2575 FAX:212/995-3833
January/February 1992
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:00:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Nett, continued from page 55 over a decade. Even when the book was in print, it was
business and maintain our interest. difficult to find in libraries as copies disappeared ("lib-
Second, I think we need to let money be money, erated" was the word of the times) as soon as it hit the
rather than turning it into a representation of some- shelves. Filled with joyous self-affirmation, angry man-
t bh eii nn gg fel as ve o. r eM d a k bi yn g t hm e o n ge oy d d eis s s en so . t I ta id s i s oe nas ee oo fr ta h e s i g thn i n o gf s tif he es t o vs i, e w a sn , d v as le ua er sc ,h i an tg t i tp ue dr es so , n a al s p r ire af tl ie oc nt sio n as n, d i t c i rp cr ue mse -nts
people exchange. The customer who spends $10 is as stances of the early generation of the gay liberation
important as the one who spends $1000. movement. (May, $13.95 pb, 4183-5; $45 cl, 4182-7.)
Third, we remember that what works for us in All books in the Cutting Edge series are published
July, works in December. If we're building a feminist simultaneously in paperback and cloth. 40% discount
multicultural socially conscious product base then we (no minimum) for paperback titles, 20% discount for
bp er ro m so at lee s d ci rv uer ns ce h o wff he er ni n g ths e i n t e mth pe t a tm ioi nds t i s o f t o t h fee a tD ue rc ee m a- c Nl Yot h 1 0 t 0i 1t 2le . s . 2 1N 2-Y 9C 9 8 -P 2r 5e 7s 5s, ; f7 a0 x W 21as 2h -9in 9g 5-t 3o 8n 3 3S . q u —ar Ce S S Oouth, NY
tf hew e tr imeal el y t oh o st u c cit ue mm bs tin o bv la ar nio du s c o p fr fi ec ee tr aa bn leg e s b. o oT kh si ,s ii ns n on co -t Announcements, continued from page 54
uous stuff we wouldn't otherwise stock, or to alienate support we'll do it much better!” They have an-
some of our community by doing Xmas. If We're seri- nounced the followEing projeRcts:
ous about our social and political commitments, we do
a disservice to ourselves and our customer commu-
nity by showing otherwise in December.
Last, we should be able to be energized by the 1) Starting “Women’s Reader,” a women’s pub-
season and our participation in it. It’s a time of hope lishing house. Co-founders are Olga Lipovskaya,
a wg aa rin ms tt h ,t h te h eo d wds h, e e t l h a wt i l lw h tuen rn t h aner de ti hs e st eh e l i fl ee a s st u s s tu ain n i nan gd N d (Pra het osa s nli : e a : 1 F 9 81i 1l 1i 2p 0 -4p 2,o 7 v 2 Sa -, 3t . 8 4T P 7a e .t )tia en rsa b uL rip go , v s Lk ita ey ia n. y M Aai vl ein . g 5 1a ,d - Apt. 19.
elements will grow in strength. And with any luck, the
December sales will buy you a little time off now. O ments 2 ) a n P du b wli osh min eng ’ s a i sn suew ess l e it nt e Rr u so sn i a w inom ben ot’s h m Ro uv se si- an
The Cutting Edge, continued from page 34 and English. Same address as Women’s Reader.
and writings of popular figures in the women’s spiritu- 3) Independent sociological research on Soviet
ality movement, including Leslie Marmon Silko, Alice women by Moscow Center for Gender Studies. Mail-
Walker, Starhawk, Marion Zimmer Bradley, Sonia John- ing address: USSR, 117218, Moscow, Krasikova Str. 27.
son, and Mary Daly, many of whom haven't previously (Phone: 095-124-6185. Fax: ISEPP TF 292-65-11.) Direc-
received the serious, academic attention they deserve. tor: Anastasia Posadskaya.
(July, $13.95 pb, -8770-3; $40 cl, 8769- X.) They are hoping for support from women’s
Fall titles in the series will include a bio-critical groups and organizations and individuals in the the
study on the life and work of Sophie Parnok, a poet West. Friends have opened a bank account in London
known as “The Russian Sappho.” under the name “Foundation for Independent
Women’s Movement in Russia” (account number is
7039670) to receive financial donations. Contributions
may be sent to the foundation c/o Lloyds Bank, 51
Not part of the series, but also of interest: In May Highgate High Street, London N65 LA, Code 301400.
NYU will publish a twentieth anniversary edition of The Third International Caribbean Women Writ-
Out of the Closets: Voices of Gay Liberation edited by ers Conference will be held in Curacao, July 28-31. For
Karla Jay and Allen Young with a new foreword by the further information, contact Dr. Joceline Clemencia,
authors that places the work in its historical context Chairperson of the TICWWC, Buro of Language Af-
and an introduction by John D'Emilio. Out of the fairs, Sede di Papiamentu, Scharlooweg 29, Curacao,
Closets, despite having sold over 100,00 copies in three NFethaerxlan:d s A5n9till9es.9 P-ho6ne1: 159979-4611647.1 or— 611C78S3. O
editions in its first ten years, has been out of print for
January/February 1992 58
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:00:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Back To Press Around the Year also went back to press for a total of
Essex Hemphill’s Black gay anthology Brother to more than 5,000 copies in print. Both titles may be
Brother, published by Alyson, is back in bookstores ordered from New Leaf, Bookpeople, Bookslinger, In-
after a growth in sales “caught the publisher by sur- land or from Biblio Press.
prise,” and it briefly went out of print in October. After Susan McClary’s Feminine Endings: Music, Gender,
an initial run of 6,000, the book went back to press for and Sexuality, published by University of Minnesota
a second run of 10,000. Another Alyson title, Choices Press, has gone back to press for 2,500 copies for a total
by Nancy Toder, has gone back to press for another of 6,000 copies in print ($14.95 pb, $39.95 cl). Also back
10,000 copies making a total of 63,300 copies in print. to press is Liz Kelly’s Surviving Sexual Violence ($14.95
The latest printing includes new covers and a new pb, $44.95 cl).
introduction by the author, marking the book's 10-
year anniversary.
The Courage to Heal, by Laura Davis and Ellen
Bass (HarperCollins) has 477,000 copies in print fol-
lowing a 16th run of 25,000. Davis’ The Courage to Heal
Workbook has 188,500 copies in print after a sixth run
of 15,000.
Beacon Press has gone back to press with Double
Stitch: Black Women Write About Mothers and Daughters
for a second printing and a total of 10,000 cloth copies
in print.
Women’s Glib, edited by Rosalind Warren and
published by Crossing Press, is now in its second University of Illinois has a new deluxe cloth edi-
edition for a total of 17,500 in print. tion available of Zora Neale Hurston’s Their Eyes Were
The Sidran Press title Multiple Personality Disorder Watching God, illustrated by Jerry Pinkney, with an
From the Inside Out will go back to press for the third introduction by Ruby Dee and a forward by Sherley
time for a total of 8,000 copies in print. Anne Williams ($24.95). The press also reprinted their
Spinsters is releasing a second, expanded edition paperback edition of Billie Dziech and Linda Weiner’s
of Look Me in the Eye: Old Women, Aging and Ageism The Lecherous Professor: Sexual Harassment on Campus
(Barbara Macdonald with Cynthia Rich) available Jan- ($14.50). The Female Fear: The Social Cost of Rape, by
uary 1992. It includes four new essays, as well as a Margaret Gordon and Stephanie Riger, has just come
new preface to the new material. $8.95 pb, 0-933216- out in paperback and Karen Saks’ Caring By the Hour
87-4. will be back in print in paperback in February.
The second 1990 edition of the Biblio Press title The cloth edition of Elizabeth Fox-Genovese’s
Written Out of History: Jewish Foremothers (Emily Taitz Feminism Without Illusions (University of North Caro-
and Sondra Henry), first published in 1979, has gone lina) went back to press for a second time with a run
back to press for a total of 10,000 copies in print for all of 2,800 for a total of 7,800 copies in print. The paper-
editions. The second expanded edition 1990 of Penina back edition of this title will be in stock in January. The
V. Adelman’s Miriam's Well: Rituals for Jewish Women press also has issued a new, revised edition of Reading
59 January/February 1992
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:00:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
the Romance: Women, Patriarchy, and Popular Literature, Town to Women’s Press of England. The Spanish- lan-
by Janice Radway. First published in 1984, the title has guage edition of Faultline — Terremoto — is out in
sold more than 20,000 copies. Spain. Naiad will bring out a Spanish-language edi-
Three titles from Indiana University Press have tion of the book in the U.S. sometime in 1992 or early
all gone back to press: Black Sister: Poetry by Black 1993.
American Women, edited by Erlene Stetson, now has Awards and Other Good News
more than 17,000 copies in print; Alice Doesn't: Femi-
n mi osm re, tS he am ni o 1ti 1c ,s 0, 0 0 C i in ne m pa r i nb ty ; aT ne dre s Wa oD me a nL ,a u Nre at ti is v e ,h a Os ther: an aw B arar db a fr ra o mW il ts ho en Bw ri il tl i s htr a Cv re il m t eo W En rig tl ea rn sd A t so s o cr ie ac te ii ov ne
Writing Postcoloniality & Feminism by Trinh T. Minh-ha for Gaudi Afternoon. Wilson won the award for “best
has more than 12,000 in print. crime novel set mainly in continental Europe.” Gaudi
Ruth Harriet Jacobs’ Be An Outrageous Older Afternoon was published in the U.S. by Seal Press and
Woman — a R*A*S*P (Remarkable Aging Smart Person), in the U.K. by Virago Press. :
from Knowledge Ideas & Trends, now has 4,500 copies Keep a look out for the New York Times review of
in print after a second printing of 1,500. the Women in Translation title Unmapped Territories.
The Multicultural Publishers Exchange recently
awarded Roberta Fernandez’s Intaglio: A Novel in Six
Stories two 1991 Book Awards of Excellence. Intaglio
received the first place award for best book of fiction
Chiquita’s Cocoon: A Cinderella Complex for the and t h Ae u n s te c o Ln ud t e p nla oc te e s a w thar ad t if no r a db do io tk io n a r tt o. the institu-
Latina Woman, by Bettina R. Flores, now has 20,000
Pc ro esp s.ies in print. The title is published by Pepper Vine t Nio atn ia ol n aa ln d E n a du ot wh mor es n tg r fa on rt s t hit e h Aa rs t sr e ac ne div e td h ef r Co am li f ot rh ne ia
Counci], it has just received a San Francisco Founda-
Rights tion grant for development.
The French publisher Editions des Femmes has In August 1992, Tim Hunter (River's Edge) with
sold Morrow world English-language rights to Duong Edward Pressman as producer (Reversal of Fortune,
Thu Huong’s Paradise of the Blind, the story of a young Das Boot, Wall Street) will begin filming the Katherine
woman in war-ravaged North Vietnam. The book is Forrest mystery Murder at the Nightwood Bar, starring
expected to be the first Vietnamese novel published in Kelly Lynch (Curley Sue, Drugstore Cowboy) as Kate
this country, according to Publishers Weekly. Duong is Delafield and James Gammon (Revenge, Major League)
at present in prison, threatened with a closed-door as Ed Taylor. Naiad says it has reason to believe Tim
trial. Hunter intends to cast as many openly lesbian ac-
Spinsters has sold Japanese rights to the ex- tresses as possi $ble in the tangential roles (many) of the
panded edition of Look Me in the Eye to Genryusha, a
feminist publisher in Tokyo. The Japanese edition is
due out this spring.
Beacon Press has sold the paperback rights to
Double Stitch: Black Women Write About Mothers and
Daughters to HarperCollins. RU 486: Misconceptions, Myths and Morals (Renate
Frauenoffensive has purchased German lan- Klein, Janice G. Raymond and Lynette J. Dumble),
guage rights to Naiad’s Murder is Germane by Karen published by the Australian feminist press Spinifex,
Saum and In the Game by Nikki Baker. (Naiad also has been awarded a Certificate of Commendation for
notes that the Japanese advance for Murder by Tradition -Non-Fiction from the Australian Human Rights
is equal to the entire foreign rights income of Naiad Awards for Literature and Other Writing. (See the
Press in 1984.) Frauenoffensive also has purchased the Women in Publishing article for news about how Spi-
rights to Pat Welch’s Stil! Waters. Naiad has sold rights nifex won the 1991 WiP New Venture Award.)
to Deborah Powell's Bayou City Secrets and Houston See Back To Press, page 68
January/February 1992 60
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:00:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Women in the Moon is currently putting together wanted for a Black Lesbian Culture Book. Send past
an anthology to be titled Steel Mirrors, a work set to be and present photographs, names, organizations, anec-
published in 1993 that will feature poems by incarcer- dotes, rumors, song titles, lyrics, publications, notes
ated women, men and children. For more information on personal style, lovemaking tips, recipes, black and
contact WIM Publications, 10203 Parkwood Drive #7, white artwork, references, herstory and sheroes...
Cupertino CA 95014. Fund-raising ideas also needed. Contact Terri Jewell,
Submissions are wanted for Issue 47 of Sinister PO Box 23154, Lansing MI 48909, or call 517-485-3500.
Wisdom, which will be edited entirely by a collective
of lesbians of color. Contributors must identify as
lesbians of color, and must submit a short biography
including information about their ethnic and/or an-
cestral background. Send copies of written and art
work to Sinister Wisdom, PO Box 3252, Berkeley CA
94703. Deadline: February 11, 1992.
are soliciting journal excerpts, particularly those writ-
ten by Black girls or written during childhood, for an
anthology of contemporary Black women’s journals.
Submit 10 to 30 pages in triplicate, and a SASE, to
Patricia Scott-Bell, Department of Child and Family
D Ae tv he el nop s m Ge Ant , 3 0D 6a 0w 2.s o n D e aH da lil nl, e : U Jni uv lyer s 1it ,y 1 9o 9f 2 .Georgia, “State of the g raJ pha ip c a fn re omse A Lv Ne r Ns ei wo sn le tt eo rf the ILIS newsletter”
Erotic stories by and about lesbian, straight and Contributions from Asian lesbians are wanted for
bisexual women are sought for a third collection of a book on Asian lesbians to celebrate the next ALN
Herotica, to be edited by Susie Bright and Joani Blank. conference in Japan in May 1992. Part of the book will
Send typed, double-spaced “womanuscripts,” along include the contributions for the first ALN conference
with your name, address and a SASE to Down There in Bangkok. Send works to Tigress Press, PO Box 217,
Press, c/o Good Vibrations, 1210 Valencia St., San Rajdamnern, Bangkok 10200 Thailand.
Francisco CA 94110. Deadline: April 1, 1992.
Eating Our Hearts Out: Women and Food, to be
Writing by Asian lesbians is also wanted for an edited by Leslea Newman and published by Crossing
anthology on Asian lesbians to be compiled with the Press, seeks first- person, non-fiction narratives by
help of AMALGM, the Alliance of Massachusetts women about eating and food. Will consider some
Asian Lesbians and Gay Men. Contact Anne Mi Ok fiction and poetry. Send submissions (maximum 10
Bruining, 41 Shaw Road, Little Compton RI 02837. pages), a 50-word bio and a SASE to PO Box 815,
Anything by, about and for Black lesbians is Northampton MA 01061. Deadline: June 15, 1992.
Volume 14 Number 5 61 January/February 1992
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:00:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
An anthology to be called How Do I Love Me? Let manuscripts (between 1 „00 and 4,000 words) and a
Me Count the Ways: Writings By Women On Self-love bio to Editor, STARbooks Press, PO Box 2737, Sarasota
s se ide ek rs sp ho oe rm t s p b ry os e w o (5m 00e n w t oo r d t h mem axs ie mlv ue ms. ). W Si el nl d a l s wo r ic to inn g- , F mL a t u3 r42 e 3 0 r. e aS dT erA sR .”books Press titles are “intended for
a 50-word bio and a SASE to Leslea Newman, PO Box
815, Northampton MA 01061. Deadline: June 15, 1992. cializin 1 g3 t h in M lio to en ra, t ua r el i t be yra r wy o man ed n , s c wh eo lcla or mly e s m sa ug ba mzi in s-e spe-
The deadline has been extended for writing, car- sions of poetry, fiction, drama, criticism, and
toons, graphics and photographs by all kinds of translations by women, as well as men’s criticism and
women for Childless by Choice: A Multicultural Women’s translations of women’s writings. Work must be un-
Anthology, a book which will locate a woman's deci- published and original. Send typed submissions and
sion not to have children within the context of the a SASE to 13th Moon, Department of English, SUNY
struggle for reproductive freedom and the right to Albany, Albany NY 12222. Please, do not send submis-
self- determination. Send contributions, which should sions in June, July, August or September.
not exceed 20 typed pages, and a SASE to HerBooks,
PO Box 7467, Santa Cruz CA 95061. Deadline May 1, West Coast Revue, a new progressive magazine
1992. on books, film, arts and architecture, health technol-
ogy and the environment, is looking for feature length
articles or shorter review articles on “the most compel-
ling and divergent scholarly works to incorporate a
Cultural Studies point of view.” Recommended
length: 500-2,000 words. Address inquiries or SASE
manuscripts to West Coast Revue, PO Box 9036, Port-
A directory of American lesbian and gay plays is land OR 97207.
being compiled for publication. Plays must have been Contests
published or produced. To suggest plays for this bib- The Lesbian Writers Fund of the Astraea National
liography, playwrights/producers/agents send SASE Lesbian Action Foundation is accepting entries for its
t 8o 5 2 8N 7a ,n c oy r H toe l ln Ke er n, FA uS rU t a dE on , g l 2i 5sh 0 ED .e p Pt a., s a dT ee nm ap , e P hA oZ enix AZ annual fiction and poetry awards. Applicants must
85012. send for guidelines and an application form. Deadline
for the 1992 cycle is March 13, 1992. Five awards of
Still Waters Press invites 24-page manuscripts for $11,000 each (three in fiction, two in poetry) will be
its third annual Women’s Words Chapbook Competi- made in June 1992. Contact the fund at the Astraea
tion. All genres, simultaneous submissions and pre- National Lesbian Action Foundation, 666 Broadway,
viously published works eligible. Send SASE for Suite 520, New York NY 10012; 212-529-8021.
complete guidelines. Send entries and $10 reading fee
to Still Waters Press, 112 W. Duerer St., Galloway NJ Druid Heights Artists Retreat provides grants for
08201. Deadline: January 31, 1992. one to three- month residencies at Vallecitos Retreat in
New Mexico and in Northern California and for stu-
Terry Wolverton and Robert Drake are looking dio space in the San Francisco Bay Area. The non-
for new lesbian and gay fiction from West Coast au- profit organization gives priority to women, and in
thors for a second Indivisible anthology. Stories explor- particular lesbians, creating art that is life-affirming,
ing multiculturalism are especially welcomed. Send socially engaged and innovative. Grants are based on
two copies of your work and a SASE mailer to Terry the artist's needs. A full residency grant includes
Wolverton, 3359 Garden Ave., Los Angeles CA 90039: room, board and transportation to and from the re-
Deadline: February 1, 1992. treat. For more information, send a SASE to Druid
STARbooks Press seeks short fiction for an an- Heights Artists Retreat, PO Box 697, Point Reyes Sta-
dth owol o g (ay n d o f O tl hes eb ri a n St o f ri ic et si o on f t Fit ol re bd i d T dh ene W Loo vm e)a . n S ei nn d the Win- t dio in r eCA c t 9 o4 r95 ,6 , o 4r 1 5ca -ll 6 M 6a 3rc -e 8lin 4a 4 6M .a rt i -n , e Axe Mcut iv e O
January/February 1992 62
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0):ffff:ffff:ffff:ffff:ffff:ffff:ffff on Thu, 01 Jan 1976 12:34:56 UTC
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsCompiled by Ann Morse Australia; phone and fax, 089-45-2774.
New Stores In other good news, Sophia Harris and her family
are planning to open a Third World bookstore serving
Rhino Nest, a “wild art space,” opened its doors the local Black, Filipino and Hispanic communities in
in December to the lesbian and gay community in and Vacaville, CA. Send best wishes and information to
around Salt Lake City. Alice Hart and Becky Moorman her at 161 Kearney Way, Vacaville CA 95687.
recently sent FBN a note telling us a little about this
new venture: “We are an experimental art space com-
bining literary, visual and performance art mediums.
We are trying to create a safe, fun place for gays and
lesbians to congregate by providing coffee, cheese-
cake, art, T-shirts, cards, and the widest selection of
gay and lesbian books in Utah. We really specialize in
small press books and the radical avant garde. We also
publish a monthly arts and entertainment magazine
in Utah and surrounding areas. We are interested in
writers, we need good fiction, poetry, political essays
and book reviews. We'd also like to encourage lesbian
artists to show their work behind the “Zion Curtain." Sherry Butler and Jan Bielfelt from Oroville, CA
Planning a trip to Utah? We'd love to have you! It can have started a lesbian-feminist bookmobile service
be fun here too!" It certainly sounds like it! Write or called Travellin’ Pages! They’ll go to women’s events,
visit Rhino Nest at 235 W. 400 South, Salt Lake City UT the local gay bar and private parties. “And we hope to
84101; call 801-532-1555, or fax 801-532-1560. be around awhile!” They’d love to receive information
Zz f mr io nm im uf mem i on ri dst e, r i nle gs b i aa mn o ua nn td s , g aa sy tp hr ee ys s e ws, o n e 'tsp e bc ei a l aly ble to
invest or transport a large volume. Contact them at PO
We're delighted to report that there's also a new Box 4094, Oroville CA 95965; 916-533-5934.
feminist/lesbian/gay bookstore in Texas — Athena’s Paige Rose has opened a new bookstore called
Attic. Send best wishes to Nova Adamson and Robbie Mystery Loves Company. The store can be found at
Nodine at Athena’s Attic, 108 Austin St., Denton TX 1730 Fleet St., Baltimore MD 21231; 301-276-6708.
76201; 817-565-9755. å Catherine Lundoff contacted us to say that her
We're a bit short on information but we've just store in Iowa City will be called Grassroots Books and
heard from a new alternative bookstore in Australia will focus on feminist, lesbian, gay, bisexual, anarchist
called Agni Bookshop. The contacts seem to be Sue and leftist alternative books and sidelines. She hopes
and Sheryl. Write them at Agni Bookshop, Shop 4, to open in the late spring. Grassroots Books, PO Box
Wulagi Shopping Centre, Brolga St., Wulagi NT 0812, 984, Iowa City IA 52244.
January/February 1992 Volume 14 Number 5
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:00:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Pegasus Bookstore opened in Winston Salem in Future Stores
October under the direction of Chris Thompson. We Kathy Paspalis of 3005 E. 6th St., Long Beach CA
now have an address for the store: 334 Waughtown St., 90814, wants to open a feminist bookstore and is look-
Winston Salem NC 27127; 919-761-0733. ing for a city that wants one. Give her a call at 310-439-
Teresa Williams has opened Blue Stocking Books 7035.
in Columbia SC. Send information to her at the store, A group (or individual?) called L.I.S.A. has been
829 Gervais St., Columbia SC 29201. surveying women in the San Antonio, Texas area to
Raleigh, NC has a new lesbian/gay and alterna- see if there's a need or interest in having a lesbian-fem-
tive bookshop called White Rabbit Books. Contact Jim inist bookstore in San Antonio. Send your thoughts
Baxter at White Rabbit Books, 309 W. Martin $t., Ra- and encouragement to L.I.S.A., PO Box 12327, San
leigh NC 27601. Antonio TX 78212.
We've heard there are plans to open a store to
replace Common Concerns, the large lefty \political
Washington DC store that closed last year. For more
Tina Murphy oversees the Crystal Rainbow in information, contact Kate Porterfield, 1762 Columbia
Davenport, IA. Contact her at 1523 Harrison St., Dav- Rd. NW, Washington DC 20009.
enport IA 52801; 319-323- 1050.
Veronica Padilla and Kim Selmore plan to open a Expanding Sections
bookstore in Jacksonville, FL in March or April. The Websters Bookstore in Milwaukee is expanding
store will specialize in progressive, alternative, femi- its feminist, lesbian and gay sections. Send informa-
nist, lesbian, gay and alternative titles. Padilla and tion to Monica Sturm at Websters Bookstore, 2559 N.
Selmore may be reached at 2150 Traymore Road, Jack- Downer, Milwaukee WI 53211.
sonville FL 32207; 904-398-5874. Genevieve Mancini says her seven-year-old Book
In Atlanta, GA, Andrea White is the person to Trader bookstore in St. James, NY has just started to
contact for information about Brothers and Sisters carry feminist, lesbian and gay titles. Send informa-
bookstore. Write her at 1951 Piedmont Circle NE, At- tion on your titles to her at Book Trader, 532 Rt. 25A,
lanta GA 30324. St. James NY 11780; 516-862- 7982.
San Francisco is now home to Orion Services, E
which contact Dana Lee describes as a “national gen- E
eral service enterprise for gay, lesbian and bisexual
people.” Orion started in 1990 as a national lesbian The English Bookshop in Brussels has started a
and gay pen pal program directed primarily at youth lesbian and gay section. Send catalogs and informa-
and evolved into an introductory service with an em- tion to Susan Botterell at The English Bookshop, W.H.
phasis on serving youth. Orion Services is now in the Smith Belgium S.A.-N.V., Boulevard A. Max Iaan 71-
process of producing a mail-order catalog of lesbian, 75, B-1000 Bruxelles Brussel, Belgium; fax 02-217 86 63.
gay and bisexual merchandise, including books, jew- Laurel Moran, owner of Laughing Moon Book-
elry, music, crafts, clothing, videos, etc. To send book store in Damariscotta, ME, says her “spirituality and
or sideline information to Lee, or to receive an Over healing store” carries a lot of feminist works. Contact
the Rainbow Catalog, contact Orion Services, 2300 her at Laughing Moon, PO Box 1084, Damariscotta
Market St. #14, San Francisco CA 94114; 415-821-1179. ME 04543.
We now have a name for the new women’s book-
store in Haslett, MI. It’s A Room of Our Own, 1486 Closed and Closing
Haslett Road, Haslett MI 48840; 517-339-0270. Anne Montez, owner of Emma Women’s Books
There seems to be a new feminist-lesbian book- “and Gifts in Buffalo, NY says the store will close its
store in Canada, Womonbound Books and Stuff. doors at the end of February unless someone steps
They’re located at 1517 Jackson Ave., Saskatoon SK forward to take over. Montez has run — and subsi-
Canada S7H 2N1. Is this the first feminist bookstore in dized — the shop for the past six years and can no
Saskatchewan? longer do it. She is, however, very willing to work with
Volume 14 Number 5 64 January/February 1992
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:00:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
anyone interested in taking over the store. Contact her
at Emma’s, 168 Elmwood, Buffalo NY 14201; 716-885- Grants available for
2285.
Alternatives Corner in West Hempstead, NY readings by Canadians
11552 has closed. A worker at the Women’s Commu-
nity Center that housed the store said the owner had Thanks to Bold Print women’s bookstore in
wanted to sell the shop for quite some time and even- Winnipeg we've just learned of a great way for US
tually left the area. The community center, however, is bookstores, libraries and other organizations to
still open. help boost awareness and appreciation of Cana-
We also received notice that Humanspace Books dian writing. It’s called the Canada Council “Pub-
in Phoenix AZ 85008 will close on or about March 31. lic Readings Program” and it's a plan under which
Since Humanspace opened in January 1985 “it has organizations may obtain grants to bring Cana-
tn oe ov e r f a rb e e bn eh ia n d s e l if n- s u pf ayfi mci ee nn tt s f ti on a n coc nia tl i n e un et it by u, y inan gd m is e r -now d _ia n I t w wriotrerkss tliok et h teh iUs: S O frogra n pizuabtiloicn s r emadaiyn g asp.ply
chandise in the usual quantities or turnaround times.” for up to three individual or six joint readings a
year. Financial support consists of a $200 reading
Sa w f re ie t e rp 'a si d t rt ao v e lt h ee x pw enri st ee sr u a pn d t o r e $i 4m 0b 0u . r Tse hm e e n ht o s to f m t uh se t
Naiad’s Barbara Grier let us know that r p eaa dy i n f go r a n a dl l c o of n t rt ih be u t eo t h $e 1r 0 0 e x tp oe n ts he es Cre al na at de ad Cto o u nt ch ie l
TM ho en yt 'r re ea l' as t f 4e 2m 0 i n ri ust e b Ro ao ck hs et l o r ee s t ,L 'E Mss oe nn tt ri ee al ll e H i 2s J c l 2o Gsi 7n .g. to hel p B oc lo dv e Pr r i nth t e h c ao s s t h oo sf t e dt h e C a nr ae dad a i n Cg o u a nn cd il - st pr oa nve -l.
Visibilities magazine and its parent company Vis- sored readings, including appearances by Betsy
ibility Press have closed. “We tried our best to stay in Warland (Proper Deafinitions), Sandy Frances Dun-
business but times are hard,” writes Publisher Susan
Chasin. “We were affected by a combination of slow _ c|an (PaMtterna Mrakelrsa, tDratgo n Hu(nSt), a anvd Daapghnee).
_ For moreinformation and an application con-
an inability to attract new advertising revenue.”
Renee Primack of Books and Coffee in Philadel- l itsahcitn g P uSbelcitci o nR,e a dTihneg s C aPnraodgar a mCo,u nVc i li,t i9n9g Manedtc aPlfueb-
phia (zip 19119) writes that she is in the process of
closing down the store, though she is still doing cata- St., PO Box 1047, Ottawa N ar
logs and lots of book fairs. The store was undercapi-
talized, Paper Cutter opened a full service store
nearby with big discounts and, though the lesbian and
gay community is great, it can't support her alone, NeW Staff
Primack said. Primack can now be reached at 79 Cam- Jim Schneider has bought Denver’s Category Six
.bridge Road, Broomall PA 19008. Books. Schneider says he plans to continue with the
same sort of stock, but hopes to carry even more
Lost T-shirts lesbian and gay books. Previous owners Neil and Dan
We recently heard from Healing Earth Resources, have retired to Arizona. We wish them the best and
a bookstore/gift shop/juice bar with a new age and miss them a lot. Category Six is still at 1029 East
spirituality focus. Owner Dawn Silver would like to Eleventh Ave., Denver CO 80218.
hear from anyone who knows where she can order Seal Press has announced several staff changes:
those cards and T-shirts with the slogans “Mourning Nancy Brandwein is Seal’s new marketing and pub-
in the Rain Forest” and “If You're a Woman Take My licity director, taking over from Pam Horino. Brand-
Hand.” Silver says a huge part of her business is done wein was an acquisitions editor at Prentice-Hall and
with women. Contact her at 2570 N. Lincoln Ave., Amacom books, and most recently worked as market-
Chicago IL 60614; phone, 312-EARTH59 ing director for Peter Bedrick Books. Dawn Kirby, who
January/February 1992 Volume 14 Number 5
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:00:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
worked for more than six years at MotherWit Books in University presses now with Inland include the Uni-
Lansing, has been hired as Seal’s publicist, taking over versity of Chicago, University Presses of New En-
for Rebecca Gillette. June Thomas, formerly of off our gland (which includes Wesleyan and Massachusetts),
backs and most recently of Airlift Book Company in Colorado, New Mexico, Nebraska, Syracuse,
England, will take over as operations manager for Princeton and California. Inland also recently made a
Julie Schick. deal with Publishers Group West (PGW) and now
distributes Peter Bedrick Books, Living Planet, Earth-
Moved works and many more — over 600 new titles. Other
A reminder that the ABA headquarters has left presses added to Inland’s list include Parallax (World
New York City for a new 12,900-square-foot home in as Lover), Paragon House, Guilford Press (Women’s
T adar dr ry est so ew d n , t o N 5Y 6. 0 A Wll h c ito er r e Ps lp aio nn sd e Rn oce ad ,s h To au rld ry tn oo ww n b Ne Y mGr uo nw ict ah t i oi nn s , C o Bn ean ce oc nt io Pn r), e s sB r au nn dn e Fr/ arM ra az re ,l , S tH re aa ul st h a nC dom-
10591; 800-637-0037. Giroux. Inland has remaindered copies of Sita (at 50%
The Canadian publisher Formac has just moved discount, no minimum), most of the Syracuse Cultural
from their Barrington Street offices to a new address. EA
You can now reach them at Formac Publishing Co. N
Ltd., 5502 Atlantic St., Halifax NS B3H 1GR; 902-421-
7022. The Children’s Book Press has moved to 6400 Workers cards — including cards by Betty LaDuke
Hollis St., Suite #4, Emeryville CA 94608. and Juice Fruit — and the Sisters of the Harlem Renais-
Bold Print women’s bookstore in Winnipeg has sance postcard book Helaine Victoria produced as
moved within their building to a street-level location. they closed.
Wish them luck in their new home at 478 (Was 478A) Bookpeople also has signed with PGW, and once
River Ave., Winnipeg MAN R3L 0C8; 204-452- 9682. again has copies of Judy Grahn’s The Queen of Wands
(The Crossing Press) after being temporarily out of
Books Move, Too stock.
When InBook began handling Alyson titles in Donations Wanted
July, bookbuyers could no longer order directly from My Sisters’ Words in Syracuse, NY kindly passed
Alyson. That’s now changed. Bookbuyers can now on a letter to us from Cheryl Kelly of Ruffin, S.C., who
order Alyson titles and their imprints (Alyson Won- is desperately trying to start a feminist and les-
derland; Lace; Perineum) directly from Alyson, as bian/gay teen library and culture center for lesbians
well.as from InBook and other distributors. The Aly- “who are kept down and are poor in money, spirit and
son discount schedule is: 2-4 for 30%; 5-29 for 40%; culture.” Kelly needs donations of feminist and les-
30-99 for 42%; 100+ for 44%; class adoptions for 20%. bian/ gay teen books, non-sexist children’s books, vid-
eos, music, art, games, crafts, library and office
YPP supplies...anything, no matter how small, that would
help the cause. She asks that donations be sent to
Wyrd Woman, Word Woman, edited by Robin ANWOLL, c\o Cheryl Kelly, Route 1, Box 296, Ruffin
Herndoboer and Cari Root, is now distributed by SC 29475.
Delphi ($13.95 pb) and is available through Inland. It The Anjaree Reading Room in Bangkok would
originally was published by Kezia International in love to receive donations of lesbian books. The reading
June 1990. Wyrd Woman, Word Woman is “a visionary room has been open since July 1991 as a place for
anthology of women’s stories that reveals the power lesbians to read about lesbianism or just have a chat.
of women released when they write in a protected Travelers also can stay at the reading room, which is a
space.” : flat, and give some donation toward the rent. For
Inland now has a number of university presses on information or to send donations, write Anjaree Read-
board, and is working to acquire a whole lot more. (So ing Room, PO Box 322, Rajdamnern, Bangkok 10200
university press people reading, give them a call!) Thailand.
Volume 14 Number 5 January/February 1992
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:00:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Celebrations, Anniversaries Clara Pinto Correia (P), Menan De Plessis (SA), Adelia
When Montreal's feminist, lesbian and gay book- Prado (BRA), Montserrat Roig (CAT /ES), Bernice Ru-
store L'Androgyne celebrated its 18th birthday re- bens (UK), Nayantara Saghal (IND), Daniele
cently, they not only had an 18% off sale, but they also Sallenave (F), Leila Sebbar (ALG/F), Yeshim Ternar
printed up some pretty. special posters. “We decided (CAN), Alice Walker (USA), Jeanette Winterson (UK).
to do everyone a favor and answer the world’s oldest Contact the Fifth International Feminist Bookfair at
question: ‘What do lesbians and gays do in bed?’,” Overtoom 270, 1054 JB Amsterdam, The Netherlands;
says L'Androgyne. So they created bright posters with +31-20-638-1506, fax +31-20-638-0786.
a lesbian couple in bed and a gay couple in bed. And
what were they all doing? Reading of course! And More
Twin Peaks Press in Vancouver offers a 41-page
International Bookfair booklet called The Disability Bookshop Catalog. The cat-
Organizers of the Fifth International Feminist alog features information about more than 400 books
Bookfair, to be held in Amsterdam June 24-28, recently as well as tapes, software, videos, games and T-shirts
sent us a listing of writers who have accepted the
invitation to attend the fair. They include: Sujatta
Bhatt (IND/D), Marie-Claire Blas (CAN), Nicole
Brossard (CAN), Sylvia Cintra Franco (BRA), Tsitsi
Dangarembga (ZIM), Mary Dorcey (El), Hella S. on topics from AIDS to allergies, blindness, children,
Haasse (NL), Gillian Hanscombe (UK), Lioba Happel disability rights, employment, nursing and women’s
( (D D), / FK )r ,i s t Eie mn mHe am m Her ue ic sh mts a n(B s), B (Sar Ab /ar Na L H ),o n i Rgm anan an Kabbani Ph ee aa klt sh . P r$ e1 s. s5 ,0 Pe Oac h B. o xA l s 1o 2 9 ,a v a Vi ala nb cl oe u vo en r t Wap Ae 9f 8o 6r 6 6$ -6 0. 1 2T 9w ;in
800-637-2256.
( A (S UuY dR Sr/ AeU ) K ,L ) o, r D dP aee ct r i(U aa S A K M)e ,l l a y L r y a a( iD n ) L, i u fA t (g I o )( ,t B a R MAK )r , ai rs t A io alf i s o M( nH / eLC ruH cr) i e, e Marçal sold tR ho eb e Ar tt h eM na ex w See rll i, e s a n in a f Wfi ol miat ee n ’ so f S t M uda ic em s i l tl oan , T eh aca hs ers
(CAT/ES), Anja Meulenbelt (NL), Waltraud Anna College Press. The series was formerly published by
Pergamon Press. (See story on page 31). All orders for
(UK), Flora Nwapa (NIG), Monika Van Paemel (B), Athene titles should now be sent to Teachers College
Helga Pankratz (A), Anki Peijpers (NL), Ethel Portnoy Press, PO Box 2032, Colchester VT 05449; 800-445-
6638 or 802-878-0315. Until May 26, Macmillan will
accept returns of any Athene titles purchased from
YPP them in accordance with past practices. Proper docu-
mentation must accompany each return. After May
(USA/NL), Carme Riera (CAT/ES), Merce Roca 26, neither Macmillan nor Teachers College Press will
(CAT/ES), Astrid Roemer (SUR/NL), Ana Sebastian issue credit for returns related to sales of Athene titles
(ARG/NL,), Lisa St. Aubin De Teran (UK/1), Esther made by Macmillan. Questions? Call Teachers College
Tusquets (CAT/ES), Dubravka Ugresic (YU/KRO), Press at 212-678-3915.
Joanna Werners (SUR/NL), Barbara Wilson (USA). A The Fund for US Artists at International Festivals
preliminary list of writers who have been invited to and Exhibitions offers grants to performing artists and
attend includes Maya Angelou (USA), Pat Barker organizations that have been invited to participate in
(UK), Françoise Billetdoux (F), Ana Blandiana (ROM), international festivals around the world. The fund is
Anna Bojarska (PO), Maryse Condé (GUAD), Ade- particularly interested in proposals reflecting the cul-
laide Garcia Morales (ES), Almudena Grandes (ES), tural and regional diversity of the US. Writers are
Patricia Highsmith (CK/CH), Zhang Jie (CHIN), eligible only if their readings are performance-ori-
Elene Kol(USA), Irina Liebmann (D), Werewere Lik- ented. For more information, contact The Fund for US
ing (CAMER), Ana Maria Matute (ES), Rosa Montero Artists, Arts International, Institute of International
(ES), Toni Morrison (USA), Bharati Mukherjee Ed1uc0atio0n,1 8079 ;U ni te2d 1Nat2ion-s 9 Pl8aza,4 N-ew5 Y3or7k 0NY. O
(IND/USA), Sevgi Özdamar (D), J.J. Phillips (USA),
67 Volume 14 Number 5
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:00:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Back to Press, continued from page 60. ing. In addition to offering Hothead Paisan and a line of
Bettina R. Flores, author of Chiquita’s Cocoon: A post cards and T-shirts, Giant Ass plans to release a
Cinderella Complex for the Latina Woman (Pepper Vine soft-bound book of Hothead in the fall of 1992.
Press), has been honored as the 1991 Latino Artist of off our backs Carol Anne Douglas has won the
the Year by the League of United Latin American Gustavus Myers Center for the Study of Human
Citizens. Rights in the United States Award for her book Love
Diane DiMassa, cartoonist and creator of the les- and Politics: Radical Feminist and Lesbian Theories. This
bian comic zine Hothead Paisan, has just signed with annual award is for the best scholarship on the subject
Crossing Press for use of one of her illustrations for the of intolerance in the United States, and is sponsored by
cover of Rosalind Warren's Kitty Libber: The Women’s B'nai B'rith, Fellowship of Reconciliation, Free Inquiry,
Glib Collection of Cat Cartoons by Women, the follow-up National Association for the Advancement ọf Colored
t Ho u m W oa rr . r e Dn iM's a sW sao m ise n c's o - fG ol uib n: d eA r C ofo ll e Gc it ai no tn Aof ss W Puo bm lie sn h’ -s PAeoples, sProojecct iCeansotreid,o annd U.n ita ri-an A UniMversal ist O
Wiplash Awards, continued from page 14. showcases members’ work at a public venue. It has
didates, our task of choosing the winners was far from become a focal point for discussion and research and
easy. In addition to the winners, nominees included: there are now plans to set up an International Festival
Joanna Labon, founder of the journal Storm, which of Women’s Theatre. As if all this activity were not
features Eastern European writers; Genevieve Fox, enough, Cheryl Robson has also been instrumental in
editor of Women’s Art Magazine; Jenny Brown, former setting up Aurora Metro Publications. So far this press
Director of the bi-annual Edinburgh Book Festival; has published two books, Seven Plays by Women and
and Maura Dooley, Literature Officer for the South The Women Writers’ Handbook and there are plans to
Bank Centre. p publish more in the future.
Renate Klein and Susan Hawthorne are the two
women behind Spinifex, winner of the New Venture
Award. They first made themselves known to us at a
WiP meeting in June of this year. What appealed to us
was their enthusiasm and commitment to women’s
writing. As an independent feminist press, they pub-
lish Australian and international writers. They plan to
publish popular and literary fiction along with acces-
sible and thought-provoking non-fiction. Their opti-
mism at a time when many of us after the events
surrounding The Women’s Press and Pandora were
feeling disheartened was both inspiring and cheering.
All their books are printed on 100% recycled paper,
they are beautifully designed, competitively priced
and enjoyable to read. Both women have established
Graphic from Wiplash newsletter themselves as writers and publishers in the Australian
Cheryl Robson, winner of the Pandora Award, Book world. Their combined efforts behind Spinifex
has been instrumental in not only getting women’s can only lead to its creative and financial success.
writing published but also getting women to write in It’s important to remember that these awards are
the first place. The Women Writers’ Workshop began not just for the individuals mentioned. They are also for
life in 1986. It was set up to create a supportive envi- the women supporters, whether as family, friends or
ronment within which women could begin to put their colleagues, behind each nominee. I hope you will join
ideas and thoughts on paper. The workshop has been with me in wishing all the candidates and their respec-
the launch pad for a myriad of activities. Every year it tive projects every success in the future. -AMO
Volume 14 Number 5 January/February 1992
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:00:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
BESIESELLERS
New Words Death Down Under, Claire McNab, Silver Moon
Cambridge, MA Books.
Top 15 for 1991 Burn Marks, Sara Paretsky, Virago.
More Serious Pleasure, ed. by The Sheba Collective,
1 Just Say Yes by J. McDaniel, Firebrand Sheba Press.
2 WComueni’ls f Gororwtdh i nT Chonene c tiBon e ead.u btyy J . JMordyant, h| G,a u dNi Aafotermnooin , BWarboaral f W,i ls onV, iVniratgoa.ge.
3 Atlas of a Difficult World by A. Rich, Norton s
4 Final Session by M. Morel], Spinsters/ Aunt
Lute
[Sa] All I Need To Know I Learned From My Cat by
S. Becker, Workman
Allies in Healing by L. Davis, Harper
Beverly Malibu by K. Forrest, Naiad
BI Any Other Name by L. Hutchins, Alyson
v w N o Women On Women: Lesbian Short Stories by J.
Nestle, NAL
10 Lesbians at Midlife by B. Sang, Spinsters/ Aunt
Lute
11 Secret Survivors by E. Blume, Ballantine
12 Courage to Heal by E. Bass, Harper
13 Cumpulsory Heterosexuality by A. Rich, Ante-
lope
14 Side By Side by I. Miller, Naiad Full Circle Books
15 Different Mothers by L. Rafkin, Cleis Albuquerque, NM
November, 1991
1 Final Session, M. Morell
Silver Moon 2 Backlash, S. Faludi
London, England 3 Plains of Passage, J. Auel
1991 Ten Bestsellers 4 Courage to Heal, E. Bass
4 Fried Green Tomatoes at the Whistle Stop Cafe,
Bedrock, Lisa Alther, Penguin. F. Flagg
Wilderness Tips, Margaret Atwood, Bloomsbury. 4 To Love Again, E. Kennedy
Possession, A.S. Byatt, Vintage. 4 Grandmothers of the Light, P. Allen
Do nT Jauianl . in 5th e BVilelagaen, J a nTe rDeelyenns,, Se rBpen. ts K5 iAnnimgasl oDrlevames,r B. Kingsolver
To the Is-Land, An Angel At My Table, & The 5 The Ship That Sailed Into the Livingroom, S.
Envoy from Mirror City, Janet Frame, Paladin. Johnson
Volume 14 Number 5 69 January/February 1992
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:00:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Mama Bears NONFICTION
Oakland, CA 1 The Autobiography of Malcom X edited by Alex
December, 1991 Haley (Ballantine, $5.95, 0-345-35068-5). The rise
of the charismatic leader in his own words.
Bushfire The Isis Papers by Frances Cress Welsing (Third
Two Mujeres World Press, $14.95, 0-88378-104-2). A theory of the
Are You Girls Marching Alone? origins of racism and white global supremacy.
Cancer in Two Voices Black Men: Obsolete, Single, Dangerous? by
Multiple Personality Disorder from the Inside Out Haki Madhubuti (Third World Press, $14.95, 0-
Wish You Were Here 88378-135-2). A compelling analysis of the
Breaking Down the Wall of Silence struggle of the Black man in American society
Women of the 14th Moon today.
For Children Who Were Broken Visions for Black Men by Na'im Akbar (Winston-
Minimax Derek Publications, $6.95, 1-55523-428-3). An-
(All available at Bookpeople.) other enlightening book for the Black man
striving for a responsible position in today’s Afri-
can-American community.
Blackboard 37 Things Every Black Man Needs to Know by
Earl Smith. (St. Clair Rene, 818-507-6484, $10.00,
African-American Bestsellers, INC. 0-962-55781-1). Advice for the Black man launch-
December, 1991 ing a private enterprise in white corporate
America.
FICTION
1 Disappearing Acts by Terry McMillan (Pocket Compiled by Blackboard African-American Bestsellers,
$B 1o 8o .k 9s 5, , $ 08 -. 69 75 0, - 80 2- 46 67 11 )- . A70 8 s4 o3 m-0 e; t i mVi ek si n jg o y oP ue sn ,g u si on m, e- aIn nc d. , A P mO e rB ico ax n 1 B8 o1 o5 k3, s e lC leo rlu s m Ab su ss o c iO aH ti o n4 ,3 2 11 38 7, 6 W14 e- s4 t 4 3 2- 55 2 2 S2 tr, eet,
times tragic story of an African-American man New York NY 10001, 800-637-0037 ext. 266.
and woman in love.
Family by J. California Cooper (Doubleday, Blackboard is a new, nationally distributed, list of
$18.95, 0-670-82461-5). The history of several current African-American bestsellers. Still in the pro-
generations of African-American slaves in the cess of expansion and development, it is currently
pre-Civil War South, through the eyes of one re- based on data from 35 general and specialty book-
markable woman. stores representing 20+ urban areas across the US. The
Their Eyes Were Watching God by Zora Neale list rates five bestselling fiction and five bestselling
Hurston (Harper Collins, $9.95, 0-06-091650-8). non-fiction titles by African-American authors or on
The story of Janie Crawford and her evolution African- American interest areas. Cloth and paper-
through three marriages; deemed by many to be back titles are integrated on the list. The list is the
Hurston’s best. brainchild of author Faye Childs. It has received press
Daughters by Paule Marshall (Atheneum, $19.95, coverage in USA Today, the Wall Street Journal, many
ISBN 0-689-12139- 3). A rich and spirited account local newspapers as well as the Multicultural Publish-
of two generations of a family with ties to both ers Exchange Newsletter, and ABA publications.
the Caribbean and New York City. Booksellers that are members of ABA will automati-
Middle Passage by Charles Johnson cally receive copies of the list each month with News-
(NAL/Dutton, $8.95, 0-452- 26638-6; $17.95, Ath- -wire. For more information, or if your store is
eneum, 0-689-11968-2). A newly freed slave interested in contributing data for the lists develop-
stows away on a slave ship bound for Africa and ment, contact Faye Childs, Blackboard African-Amer-
gives a vivid account of his journey; winner of ican Bestsellers, Inc., PO Box 18153, Columbus OH
the 1990 National Book Award. 43218. Phone: 614-443-5222. O
January/February 1992 70 Volume 14 Number 5
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:00:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
BOOKs in Canada:
By Penny Goldsmith Talonbooks is one of the major Canadian publish-
ers committed to publishing plays, and this fall’s of-
Mary Meigs is one of the eight women who make fering is Wendy Lil's Sisters ($9.95, 0-88922-289-4). It’s
up the film The Company of Strangers, produced by the an uncompromising look at a convent-run Native res-
Canadian National Film Board in 1990 (the film is idential school and the soul-destroying devastation
called Strangers in Good Company in the United States). caused by these institutions from the point of view of
The book, In The Company of Strangers (Talonbooks, the nuns running the school.
$12.95, 0-88922-294-0 ), starts off as being Meigs’ story
of being in the film and interweaves her reflections on ad
time, aging, and the phenomenon of film with her
portraits of each cast member on and off camera. The
eight women are strangers who first become com-
pany, then friends. The book is a constant reminder of Another Canadian publisher who wobbles on the
the magic the movie creates written by a writer and financial tightrope of publishing plays is Blizzard Pub-
painter of renown (her most recent books are Lily lishing Ltd. One of their fall titles of interest is Airborne:
Radio Plays by Women ($14.95, 921368-22-4), edited by
Closet. All of Mary Meigs’ books are available from Ann Jansen. The collection of six radio plays is authored
Talonbooks, #201-1019 East Cordova, Vancouver, BC by Anne Chislett, Sharon Pollockand Judith Thompson,
V6A 1M8. 604-253-5261; fax 604-255-5755. In the US, all winners of the Canadian Governor General's Award
order from University of Toronto Press, 340 Nagel
Drive, Cheektowaga, NY 14225, 716-683-4547) or from Zealand), Dacia Maraina (Italy) and Diana Raznovich
Inland and Bookslinger. (Spain/ Argentina). (The latter two are translated by
Another of Talon’s fall offerings of interest to FBN Canadian playwrights Margaret Hollingsworth and
readers is a novel by Québec writer Michèle Mailhot Rosalind Goldsmith.) The plays cover a wide range of
called Death of the Spider. ($10.95, 0-88922-298-3). topics dealing with women’s suffrage, Native rights, a
Author Marie-Claire Blais describes it in the Preface as Maori woman, mothers and daughters, and teenagers.
“...both a poetic indictment of our contemporary The collection is available in the States from Inland or
society and a forerunner of the feminist novel—while Bookslinger, and elsewhere, directly from Blizzard, 301-
admirably avoiding the traps of theory and rigidity.” 89 Princess Street, Winnipeg, Manitoba R3B 1K6; 204-
949-0511; fax 204-942-1555.
Penny Goldsmith has been involved in the Canadian pub- Other recent releases from Blizzard by women
lishing world for almost twenty years. She has worked for include The Darling Family: A Duet for Three by
various small publishers in both Ontario and, now, in Linda Griffiths, Gravel Run by Conni Massing, and
British Columbia, which has been her home for the past Amigo’s Blue Guitar by Joan MacLeod.
fifteen years. She is the owner of Lazara Press, a literary There's a long tradition of work poets in Canada,
publishing house in Vancouver, British Columbia which and Kate Braid is one of its foremothers. Kate is a
has been operating since 1982. carpenter and her first collection of poetry Covering
Volume 14 Number 5 71 January/February 1992
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:00:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Rough Ground (Polestar Books, $11.950, -019591-68- Health Bill of Rights” which she suggests that you
X) is an inspiration to any woman who wants to enter insist that your doctor adhere to, or change doctors.
the trade. The title comes from Emily Carr's Journals: Chapters in the book cover: Women and Stress in the
“One does not always plant one’s feet daintily when 1990s, Birth Control and Infections, Making the Most
one is covering rough ground” and the book is an of Your Pregnancy, Satisfying Childbirth, Growing
admirable testimony to both the trials and the joys of Older, Getting Better, and Specific Women’s Problems.
' beingina predominantly “male” profession. The book The book doesn’t have an ISBN; it’s roughly pro-
is, as always with this publisher, beautifully designed. duced, but full of useful information. Order copies for
Polestar Books are available in Canada from Raincoast $10.95 each plus $2.00 for shipping and handling from
Books, 112 E. 3rd Ave., Vancouver, BC V5T 1C8 and in The Last Laugh Inc., PO Box 66, Winlaw, BC V0G 2J0.
the States from Inland and Bookslinger. Still in the area of health, Harbour Publishing has
published The All Allergy Cookbook: Dairy-Free and
Gluten-Free by Jeanne Marie Martin ($14.95, 1-55017-
ad 044-9) It covers everything in the dairy-free, gluten-free
world from breakfast to late-night desserts. Available
from Harbour at Box 219, Madeira Park, BC VON 2H0.
Camden House has published an intriguing depar-
Daphne Marlatt’s new book Salvage, from Red ture from the practical entitled Lilies of the Hearth: The
Deer College Press ($9.95, 0-88995-074-1) retraces the Historical Relationship Between Women and Plants
author's writing over the past two decades. Part poem, by Jennifer Bennett ($14.95, 0-921820-27-5 ; distributed
part fiction, part autobiography, the book re-reads and by Firefly Books Ltd., 250 Sparks Ave., Willowdale,
re-envisions Marlatt's earlier writing in the light of her ONT M2H 284; (416) 499-8412; fax (416) 499-8313). The
feminist experiences of the late 80s, and in doing so book traces history's mercurial portrayal of women and
salvages them. (Available in the US from Inland, Book- their relationship with the earth: ancient female sym-
slinger, Pacific Pipeline; in Canada from Raincoast bols of fertility become agents of the devil in the 16th
Books, 112 E. 3rd Ave., Vancouver, BC V5T 1C8.) century and banal advertising gimmicks in the 20th.
There's a new collection of contemporary writing Distributed in the US by Inland.
by Chinese Canadians (half the contributors are Moving from organizing your personal health to a
women) co-published by Douglas & McIntyre in Van- broader perspective, Black Rose Books (3981 St. Laurent
couver, British Columbia ($24.95, 0-88894-711-9) and Blvd., Ste 444, Montréal, Québec, 514-844-4076; fax 514-
the University of Washington Press in Seattle in the 849-1956) has published Fighting for Hope: Organiz-
States (0-295-97149-5). The title of the collection, Many ing to Realize Our Dreams ($16.95, 0-921689-86-1) by
Mouthed Birds: Contemporary Writing by Chinese Joan Newman Kuyek. Kuyek has written a book that is
Canadians, comes from a Chinese expression used to both moving and practical about how society has cheap-
describe someone who disturbs the peace. “If you are ened the meaning of community and how this reflects a
a many-mouthed bird, it means you do not know how destruction of human relationships. She starts from the
to hold your tongue. You speak up when you are experiences of ordinary people and shows how “scien-
supposed to keep quiet . . . you are being indiscreet.” tific management” in the form of political, educational
This is writing about cultural identity, language and and communication systems all work to diminish the
history and it’s a powerful anthology. power and ability of people to determine their own
Moving out of the area of literature for a few future. She then moves on to outline how to build a core
moments, and into health care, For Women Only: group in a community, how to raise money and de-
Taking Charge Of Your Body by Dr. Carolyn DeM- scribes community organizing activities from popular
arco starts off with the beliefs that “1) You are the most education to civil disobedience, to alternative invest-
reliable expert on your body and your health care and ment funds. Available in Canada from University of
2) Your body is perfectly constructed for your enjoy- Toronto Press, in the States from Paul & Company, 360
ment and benefit, whether you decide to have children W. 31st St, NY, NY 10001.
or not.” Dr. DeMarco then goes on the list “A Woman’s See Canadian Books, page 111
72
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:00:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Sad news: lesbian photographer Bernice Abbott
died December 9th at the age of 93. She was a brilliant,
crusty and amazing woman. The best collection of her
work is Bernice Abbott: Photographs, Smithsonian
Institution Press, $24.95 pb, 0-87474-211-.
Some very promising books have arrived lately.
First among them is Voicing Our Visions, Writings by
Women Artists, edited by Mara R. Witzling, which
presents lively excerpts from twenty artists, five of
them alive today. In a letter to a friend, Harriet Hos-
mer (1830-1908) writes of one sculpture: “It certainly
does make a larger piece of putty than I had antici-
pated...To-morrow I mount a Zouave costume, not
remaining in petticoats.” Elizabeth Catlett (b. 1919): “I
speak to you today as a very ordinary person, a mem-
ber of four exploited groups — Blacks, Mexicans,
women and poor people...I am not of the exceptional.
I am rather of the fortunate...The big question for me
as a black woman is how do I serve my people? What P
is my role? What form do use, what content, what are
my priorities?” Open the book anywhere and become
engrossed. There is Faith Ringgold (b. 1930) talking ana
about her performance pieces and the art quilts she
made with her mother, and sculptor Barbara
Hepworth (1903-1975) on the importance of light and
the inspiration of her children. Brief biographies are Introduction by ANN JONES
included and an informative introduction. Universe, Living With the Enemy by Donna Ferrato is a
$16.95 pb, 0-87663-609-1. very different type of book. In the tradition of Life
Another book beautifully produced for women’s magazine photo essays, this book about battered
bookstore sales is Contemporary American Women women combines highly emotional pictures with brief
Artists which features fine color reproductions of commentaries. For example, a two-page spread shows
work by twenty-four prominent women including a photo of a Black woman isolated in thought, a white
Faith Ringgold, Audrey Flack, Miriam Schapiro, woman covering her face in grief while her child rests
Jaune Quick-to-See Smith and Marisol. Each woman on a table nearby, and a white woman comforting a
73 January/February 1992
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:00:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Black woman with tears on her face. The text reads: Re/Search, $18.95 pb, 0-940642-24-7, distributed by
“Often, after experiencing traumatic events, a battered Subterranean Co., 20 Romolo St. Suite B, San Francisco
woman feels too humiliated or terrified to tell anyone CA 94133, 415-362-1465.
what's happened to her. She thinks no one will help The Wages of Sin, Censorship and the Fallen
her. In the shelter, women discover there are many Woman Film, 1928-1942 by Lea Jacobs is an interest-
other women in a similar situation. Together they ing tour through a group of films which influenced the
discuss their experiences and they help one another...” self-image of my mother’s generation. Chapters in-
This is a terrific book, political, gutsy, subtle, powerful. clude “The Fallen Woman Film and the Impetus for
It should be in every library and woman’s center, and Censorship,” “Glamour and Gold Diggers,” “Some-
used as a text book for classes in all the helping pro- thing Other than a Sob Story,” “Class and Glamour in
fessions. Ferrato is a self-taught, award winning pho- the Films of the Late Thirties,” and more. The Univer-
tographer. Aperture, $24.95 pb, 0-89381-480-6; $40 cl, sity of Wisconsin Press, $15 pb, 0-299-12884-9; $37.50
0-89381-489-x. c], 0-229- 12880-6.
Surrealism and Women, edited by Caws,
Kuenzli and Raaberg, is an exceptionally interesting
collection of writings about the women artists in-
volved in a movement which generally saw women as
object and muse, not active creator. Surrealism itself
was an attempt to open the arts to the workings of the
subconscious or the unconscious. Includes overviews,
interviews, statements, and essays on specific artists.
MIT Press, $12.50 pb, 0-262-53098-8.
Flowering in the Shadows, Women in the His-
tory of Chinese and Japanese Painting, edited by
Marsha Weidner, is a collection of essays which dra-
matically changes our understanding of who made art
Song S ot fe l l ta h eT o Ld oac oh me :e n Ny e, w K l Tag rae dto ith i o nf sl o o ir n r Nu ag v, a j of r o Wm eaving and under what circumstances in China and Japan.
Some essays are overviews, others deal with specific
The Basket Weavers of Arizona by Bert Robin- women artists, women collectors, and the creation of
Nso an t iv i es wa o r me eis ns u e a r to if st sa ’ wm oa rjo kr , a inn td e g r re as tp inec gt f au el s t s ht eu td icy s of a$rt3 f5or fcemla,le a0ud-ie8nc2es4. 8Un-iv1er1si4ty9 o-f 6 H.a w a-ii Press,
with descriptions of the craft and discussions of cul- The Reenchantment óf Art by Suzi Gablik is a
tural histories. The photos, though black and white timely look at the presumptions and assumptions
and not glossy, are amazing. University of New Mex- which underlie mainstream artmaking today. Gablik
ico Press, $24.95 pb, 0-8263-1263-2. says, “The psychic and social structures in which we
Angry Women is an odd (I'm tempted to say live have become too profoundly anti-ecological, un-
“weird”) collection of fifteen interviews by women healthy and destructive.” She suggests that the way
described as “luminaries in their creative domains.” out includes a “renewed sense of community, an en-
Includes Susie Bright, bell hooks, Kathy Acker, Sap- larged ecological perspective, and greater access to
phire, Annie Sprinkle, Karen Finley, Linda Montano the...spiritual life.” Her stance affirms meaning and
and others. The essays are informative and interest- relevance. Thames and Hudson, $22.50 cl, 0-500-
ing. The graphics are the kind often described as “on 23619-4.
the cutting edge,” starting with an image of a woman Engendering Culture, Manhood and Woman-
covered with a dark liquid holding up a knife. The hood in New Deal Public Art and Theater by Bar-
back cover describes the interviews as discussing, bara Melosh starts out with the statement that “The
among other things, how you can “have a revolution- New Deal stands as the single example of a liberal
ary feminism that encompasses wild sex, humor, American reform movement not accompanied by a
beauty and spirituality plus radical politics.” See Art Books, page 112
January/February 1992 74 Volume 14 Number 5
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:00:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
By Ed Hermance with Skip Strickler 4. How Town, by M. Nava. (Random House,
Giovanni's Room, Philadelphia $3.99 pb pb, 0-345-36987- 4.) A new reprint of this
popular gay mystery author.
The first printing of Duo: Photographs of Bob 5. Anal Pleasure and Health, 2nd Edition, by J.
Paris and Rod Jackson, by Herb Ritts (Twin Palms, Morin. (Down There Press, $11.00 pb, 0-940208-08-3.)
$45.00pb 0-944092-17-9), is sold out, though it has yet A perennial bestseller updated with AIDS information.
to be shipped. Customers have voted it the gay men’s 6. The Swimming Pool Library, by A.
book of the season, even without having seen the Hollinghurst. (Random House, $12.00 pb, 0-679-
book. It’s been reviewed enough and, more impor- 72256-4.) New paperback of this major British gay
tantly, illustrated enough in gay men’s magazines to novel.
stimulate intense interest. Rod and Bob Paris-Jack-
son, as they now sign their names, are famous as
body builders and got married in front of Joan Rivers.
The second printing is due the end of January, but it 7. The Faber Book of Gay Short Fiction, edited
would be unusual if it is available then. If you have by E. White (Faber, $24.95 c], 0-571-14472-1.) This new
customers interested in gay men’s photo books, they anthology spans gay men’s American and British
will buy this one guaranteed. Backorder it now from writing from E.M. Forster to the present.
the publisher at 2400 North Lake Ave., Altadena, CA 8. A Guide to Living with HIV Infection, by J.
91001; 818-798-3116. Bartlett. (Johns Hopkins University Press, $15.95 pb,
0-8018-4194-1.) A practical guide.
9. Spontaneous Combustion, by D. Feinberg.
(Viking, $19.95 cl, 0- 670-83813-6.) The continuation of
the authors very successful first novel, Eighty-Sixed.
OUR CURRENT BESTSELLERS: 10. Ready to Catch Him Should He Fall, by N.
1. Brother to Brother: New Writings by Black Bartlett. (Dutton, $19.95 cl, 0-525-93350-6.) A new ro-
Gay Men, edited by E. Hemphill. (Alyson., $8.95 pb, mantic British novel.
1-555831-46-x.) The second anthology of American 11. Mirage, by P. Brass. (Belhue Press, $10.95 pb,
Black gay men’s writing. The first anthology, In the 0-9627123-1-0.) A blend of scifi and erotic fantasy.
Life, by Joseph Beam (Alyson, $8.95, 0-932870- 73-2), 12. Putting on the Ritz, by J. Keenan. (Viking,
continues to sell well too. $19.95 cl, 0-670-83877-2.) A new comic novel by the
2. Murder with a Twist: Closet Hanging & author of Blue Heaven.
The Glory Hole Murders, by T. Fennelly. (Carroll FORTHCOMING BOOKS
& Graf, $4.95 pb, 1-88184-783-6.) A reissue of two
mysteries. FICTION:
3. Masters’ Counterpoint: A Suspense Novel, by
L. Townsend. (Alyson,, $9.95 pb, 1-55583-189-3.) Larry (Please forgive me for including so many hard-
Townsend's most extended work since The cover books here. As you can see from the bestseller list
Leatherman’s Handbook. above, hardcovers are important in gay men’s fiction.)
75
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:00:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
The Uncle from Rome, by J. Caldwell (Viking, 08013-x). Milo, the gay cop who has been suspended for
$20.00, 0-670-84058-0), immerses an American opera punching out a homophobe on live TV in the previous
singer in a number of dangerous relationships among volume (Time Bomb), has plenty of time now to help Alex
a fiery collection of Neapolitans. Very quickly the Delaware, child psychologist, investigate crimes.
story tightens to an almost unbearable tension, as the Love You to Death, by Grant Michaels (St.
narrator has to act in deadly situations that he cannot Martin’s, 3/92, $18.95 cl, 0-312-07027-6), and Richard
fully understand and whose moral implications are Stevenson’s Third Man Out (St. Martin’s, $17.95, 0-
ambiguous. It’s thrilling. 312-07110-8) are the new hardcovers by now well-es-
tablished gay mystery writers. Marc Zubro’s The
Only Good Priest (St. Martin’s, 3/92, $8.95 pb, 0-312-
07054-3) will be new in paperback.
Christopher Bram’s long-delayed Almost His- EROTICA:
tory (Donald I. Fine, $19.95 cl, 1-55611-231-9) has been The Flesh and the Word: An Anthology of Erotic
re-announced for 4/92. I haven't read it; I'm not sure Writings About Gay Men, edited by John Preston
it’s even finished; but I bet it'll be good. (NAL, 3/92, $13.00 pb, 0-452-26775- 7), should do
Perhaps the most important of the paperback well. It includes the work of Samuel Steward (aka Phil
reprints of 1991 originals will be Paul Monette’s Half- Andros) and the other masters of the art.
way Home (Avon, 6/92, $10, 0-380-71797-2). As the
author of a series of fiction, poetry, and non-fiction BIOGRAPHY:
books dealing with AIDS, Mr. Monette has established The paperback of Martin Duberman’s Cures: A
a reputation, justly deserved, for writing affectingly. Gay Man’s Odyssey (NAL, 4/92, $11.00, 0-452-26780-
Halfway Home is a continuation of his earlier novel 3) is the best memoir I know about the psychological
Afterlife, already out in paperback. It’s remarkable trap laid for the gay generation born about 1930. The
how many women buy only his books from our store. social and intellectual realities of the fifties and sixties
Paul Monette’s Becoming a Man: Half a Life put this famous historian at the mercy of the charla-
Story (HBJ, 6/92, $21.95 cl, 0-15-111519-2) will be a tans and crooks of the psychiatric establishment — for
major book for the next few years at least, judging years.
from the overwhelming response to his AIDS memoir,
Borrowed Time. (I'm sorry I can’t tell you more about
this memoir, but if you carry any gay men’s hardcover
books, you should carry this one too.)
Home at the End of the World, by M. Cunning- Serious Pleasures: The Life of Stephen Tennant,
ham (Bantam, 4/92, $6.99 pb, 0-553-55002-0) is the by P. Hoare (Penguin, $15.00, 0-14-016532-0), a paper-
reprint of his successful cloth edition. back reprint, celebrates its turn-of-the-century
In time for Black History Month will be Vanish- subject's masterful indolence.
ing Room, by Melvin Dixon (NAL, $8 pb, 0-452-26761- A Bag of Toys: A True Story of S&M and Murder
7), the reprint of the 1991 hardcover, the most recent in New York Society, by D. France (Warner, $21.95 cl,
work of this new Black gay author. 0-446-51606-6) tells the horrible story of the torture
Fag Hag, by R. Rodi (Dutton, $19, 0-525-93406-5), and murder of a handsome young model.
is an inventive exploration of a young woman ob- The hardcover of S. Fussell’s Muscle: The Confes-
sessed with a gay man. She’s outrageously bizarre, yet
cin r a ft th ee d e cn hd a r ay co tu er .have to take her seriously as a strongly p Ub .S, . 0 a- n3 d8 0 - B7 r1 i7 t6 ai3 n-8 , ) s oh a s I b amee n e mre bv oi le dw ened e d f a tv oo r ra eb cl oy m min e n t dhe
MYSTERIES: this book by a man who owns a gym down the street,
a book about the male equivalent of female anorexia.
The most anticipated mystery this season is Jona- (Neither the book nor the author is gay, but gay men
than Kellerman’s Private Eyes (Bantam, $21.50 cl, 0-553- seem to be into muscles more than anybody else.) O
January/February 1992 76 Volume 14 Number 5
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:00:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
<S
Yeow! All the best people won the 1991 World son (who will become Miles Vorkosigan of The Vor
Fantasy Awards, presented November 3 at the World Game, etc.) the victim and then target of would-be
Fantasy Convention in Tucson. Carol Emshwiller’s assassins. Bujold is adept at showing what political
The Start of the End of It All and Other Stories upheaval looks like at both the broadest societal and
(Mercury House) won for best collection, Pat the most intimate levels, and making it a rousing
Murphy’s “Bones” for best novella, and — to spare us adventure in the process.
Solomon’s choice — Ellen Kushner’s Thomas the
Rhymer (Morrow/Tor) and James Morrow’s Only aA
Begotten Daughter (Morrow/Avon) tied for best
novel. Congratulations, everybody.
With winter approaching, I'm just beginning to ACE BOOKS (0-441-)
make a dent in the “must-reads of 1991" pile. Among Alien Blues, by Lynn S. Hightower ($4.50, 64460-
the highlights, World Spirits, by Aline Boucher- 0). Terry Bisson: “Not only are Hightower’s aliens
Kaplan (Baen Books, 0-671-72043-0, $4.50), follows the truly alien — her cops are actually human! A high-
progress of Aurial, junior member of the powerful, spirited and spooky new Silence of the Lambs with
high-tech, and matriarchal il Tarz family, on a low- otherworldly overtones.” And Locus called this gritty
tech planet dominated by men and a fundamentalist sf procedural “a very promising first novel.”
religion. Patricia A. McKillip’s The Sorceress and the
Emma Bull’s Bone Dance (Ace, 0-441-57467-2, Cygnet appears in paper in January. S. N. Lewitt’s
$4.50) is especially recommended for the skill with Cybernetic Jungle is scheduled for March; her last,
which the author develops and sustains the voice of Blind Justice, marked a major advance for this always
the genderless first-person narrator. There's plenty competent and interesting writer, so keep an eye out.
else to remember in this post-disaster novel, like a Also in March comes Crisis on Doona by Anne Mc-
vividly realized black market/underground and a Caffrey (who wrote Decision at Doona) and Jody Lynn
magical/ spiritual system based on voudoun. Nye.
AVON
é
In February, there's Arachne by Lisa Mason,
about whom I think I've heard good things (sure sign
At Wiscon 1991 the panel on Lois McMaster of overload). It’s said to be about lawyers in a totally
Bujold was called “Space Opera for Feminists?” Id computerized legal system — in which case all refer-
been meaning to read more of her work ever since, ences to spiders and webs seem appropriate.
then Baen editor Toni Weisskopf sent me a copy of In June, stock for sure the paperback of Eleanor
Barrayar (0-671-72083-X, $4.99). On patriarchal, mili- Arnason’s A Woman of the Iron People, which was
taristic, Russian-flavored Barrayar, war hero Cordelia greeted by excellent reviews in hardcover. Arnason’s
Naismith, from a very egalitarian culture, marries into “Ceremony of Discontent” is in Women Who Walk
the Barrayaran aristocracy and soon finds her unborn Through Fire and, as you know, I shamelessly promote
January/February 1992
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:00:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
the work of anyone who ever sold me a story. The BANTAM/SPECTRA (0-553-)
advance listing identifies it as #1: In the Light of Sigma Theacclaimed Nothing Sacred, by Elizabeth Ann
Draconis, which does suggest a sequel. Scarborough (who seems to be using her middle name
for her more ambitious novels and dropping it for the
lighter ones), appears in mass-market in January. In
AS the next century, a woman shot down while mapping
BAEN BOOKS (0-671-) t ch ame p H i rm ua nl a y ba ys Tf ii bn ed ts a n h s e r as ne dlf C i hn i n a e s em . y Ts hte er i to hu is r dP O iW n
Flameweaver, by Margaret Ball ($4.99, 72095-3). Scarborough’s Songkiller series, pitting the valiant
Spectacular terrain, characters that grow before your folkies against the forces of corporate evil, is called
eyes, and solid understanding of both sexual and im- Strum Again and due in May 1992.
perial politics are among this novels many assets. Sheri Tepper’s Beauty arrives in mass-market in _
Tamai sets out from the mountain fortress of April; I thoroughly enjoyed this one, which braids
Gandhara, governed by magically gifted and trained together 14th century England, a dystopian near-
wisewomen, to buy rifles in British-ruled India — a future, Faery, and several Child ballads into a whole
hitherto unimaginable world with very different mag- dealing with that classic sf theme, being human.
ics. Her protector and then student is an English lady Illusion, by Paula Volsky (08145-4, $22 c]). File
whose abusive officer husband is missing in the this away for the paperback in case I forget. This
mountains. As with most clash-of-culture novels, I marks a leap in scope and ambition from the author's
found the optimistic resolution somewhat forced, lighter fantasies: an epic-size (577 pages) sort of near-
though I did want to believe it. alternate universe French revolution (magic works,
Shadow’s Son, by Shirley Meier, S. M. Stirling, but many historical details remain) with a young no-
and Karen Wehrstein ($4.99, 72091-0). The further blewoman for protagonist.
adventures of Megan Thane’sdoom and companion
mercenary Sh’kaira include both a search for DUTTON (0-525-)
Megan’s kidnapped son and an interplanetary war. Prism of the Night: A Biography of Anne Rice,
The first “Fifth Millennium” novel with three au- by Katherine Ramsland (93370-0, $22.95 cl). Written
thors; Wehrstein has done two solo, Meier one, and with the novelist’s cooperation, this focuses on the
Stirling and Meier two (The Sharpest Edge and The “biographical impulse” behind Rice’s fiction, which
Cage). continues to explore human sexuality in astonishing
Stardance, by Spider and Jeanne Robinson ($3.99, depth and diversity (perversity?). (Imagine my sur-
72097-X). Reissue of a very good mid-'80s novel, timed prise six or seven years ago when a review copy of the
to coincide with the hardcover release of its sequel, second “Sleeping Beauty” novel arrived unan-
Starseed (Ace Books, hardcover). Spider Robinson nounced in my mailbox.)
brings his talents as sf writer, Jeanne hers as dancer
and choreographer to this story of an Earth woman aA
who, deemed too big for a ballerina, commits herself
to developing, in the weightlessness of space, a new
performance art. HARCOURT BRACE JOVANOVICH (0-15-)
BALLANTINE/DEL REY (0-345-) If you're looking for good, feminist-friendly YA
fantasies, check out Patricia C. Wrede’s Talking to
All the Weyrs of Pern, by Anne McCaffrey Dragons, Dealing with Dragons, and the most recent
(36892-4, $20 cl). I yawned out of the Pern series after Searching for Dragons (200898-5, $16.95 cl).
Dragondrums, so it's nice to see encouraging words for
this, which picks up after The White Dragon and has the NAIAD PRESS (0-941483-)
dragons and their riders using old Earth technology to Stranded, by Camarin Grae (99-1, $9.95 tp). Les-
battle the Thread, Pern’s cyclical menace. Whether bians from another planet (who are about as alien as
any Pern book is worth $20 is another question. women from Maine, Ohio, or Arizona) take up resi-
January/February 1992 78 Volume 14 Number 5
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:00:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
dence in the minds of “Earthlings,” all in order to librarian /writer who finds a dead body in her back-
apprehend a bad guy whose mischief includes start- yard hammock.
ing a fundamentalist religion. A comic book without Very peripheral poaching continues ("Each
pictures. story is essentially a mystery," said Aboriginal SF
reviewer Janice M. Eisen) with the paperback, due in
NEW VICTORIA PUBLISHERS (0-934678-) June, of Janet Kagan’s well-received Mirabile, six
Shadows of Aggar, by Chris Anne Wolf (36-7, loosely linked stories about a planet where DNA
$9.95 tp). In which the worlds, the magic, the mores, runs amok.
the plot, the characters, and most of the dialogue are Also in June comes a trade paper edition of the
engineered with one goal in mind: to get two women second and last novel by the very great James Tiptree
into bed. Strong editing would have helped. Jr. (Alice Sheldon), Brightness Falls from the Air.
Beautiful, gripping, poignant, and above all wise.
The Grail of Hearts, by Susan Shwartz (85176-6,
Tm Warning yov, Gale — iF $21.95 cl). From Locus’s mixed review: “A closely re-
yo v d rSa iy f, t i" nW ge , ” t w Jo Y a S tR e One more s Fe ia shrc eh r e d K inn gov , e l t h c eo m Ab ri tn hi un rg i a nt h e s a gG ar a (i il n L te hg ee n d af ta en rd m ai tt hs of
Arthur’s death), the genuine historical background of
the Crusades, and the Jewish heritage dating back to
the time of Christ.” And with a “perennial Outsider”
heroine holding it all together. 2/92
China Mountain Zhang, by Maureen F. McH-
ugh (85271-1, $19.95 cl). Of particular interest to gay
stores, this well-reviewed first novel is set in a future
world dominated by the socialist Chinese and fea-
tures an American-born Chinese protagonist who
refuses to visit China because his ancestry is half-
PENGUIN/ROC H wi os up la dn i c m aa kn ed hh ie m’s da ec ct ii dv ee dly ly h nom ono s e gx ru aa tl a — in w fuh ti uch re
March brings the paperback reprint of Ellen China. 3/92
Datlow’s much-discussed anthology, Alien Sex, and Flying in Place, by Susan Palwick (85183-9,
also Nightseer, a first novel by Memories and Visions
contributor Laurell K. Hamilton. are entirely separate, and evil as mundane and famil-
ST. MARTIN'S i 1a 2r - y a es a r -e ov li dl g Ee mts m. a T , h ie s 1 a7 s 9 - up na rg ee l e nn ta ir nr gat i av ne, d i gn r imth e a sv o ii tc se of
Three hardcovers briefly noted: a collection from subject — incest — and eloquently conveys all the
Kate Wilhelm in March, And the Angels Sing, then in despair and brief hopes of Emma’s situation. Highly
May both Judith Moffett’s Time, Like an Ever-Flow- recommended, both for the f/sf section and for the
ing Stream and James Morrow’s City of Truth. violence/ recovery shelves. 5/92
TOR (0-312-) RASNA
Hope I'm not poaching on Mary Lowry's terri-
tory, but the borders of f/sf and mystery grow fuzzy
in many places. Mercedes Lackey’s occult thrillers WARNER/QUESTAR (0-446-)
featuring investigator Diana Tregarde continue to gar- Dragon’s Queen, by Carol L. Dennis (36152-6,
ner enthusiastic reviews; the most recent is Jinx High $4.99). I can't resist the senior editor's comment that
(52114-5, $4.99). Sneeze on Sunday, by Andre Norton this is “designed for the more genteel vegetarian
and Grace Allen Hogarth (85222-3, $18.95 cÌ), is a dragon set, cutesy and proper.” Maybe, if you have
whodunit set in 1948 and featuring a vacationing NYC any cutesy vegetarian dragons for customers. O
79 January/February 1992
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:00:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
pykes To N THE SEQUEL / | LEGAL TENDER
WATCH e Eg, bY Alison Bechdel Zj 3s A Mystery
OUT FOR: by Marion Foster
THE SEQUEL
I; Harriet Fordham Croft—flam-
Added Attraction—“Serial l Monogamy” :| boyant attorney, urban sophisticate,
Cartoons by Alison Bechdel 8| straight—had not successfully
defended Leslie Taylor...
A box office sensation, Alison Bechdel’s latest car- If Leslie Taylor—small-town journalist, women’s ad-
toon extravaganza—Dykes 10 Watch Out For: The vocate, lesbian—had not been freed from both a murder
Sequel—continues her graphic documentation of the charge and her closet...
lesbian community. If the courtroom fireworks that set their hearts ablaze
This 4-star blockbuster (*=Dykes 7o Watch Out had not also changed Harriet’s professional world...
For; **=More Dykes To Watch Out For; ***=New, None of this would have happened.
Improved! Dykes To Watch Out For) showcases fine Harriet Fordham Croft is in real trouble. Someone
performances by some of the comic page’s favorite wants her dead. Is it her newly discovered lesbianism, her
leading women (Mo, Harriet, Toni, Clarice, Sparrow, switch from corporate to criminal practice, or some long-
Lois, Jezanna), and introduces Thea in a featured role. standing personal debt that has triggered the danger?
Also, don’t miss “Serial Monogamy” (the story Rapidly moving between the naked beauty of a
of our lives?), an Added Attraction premiering with remote island in the Canadian bush, and the sloshy bars
Dykes To Watch Out For: The Sequel. Lesbiana’s car- and single-room occupancies of Toronto's rundown east
toon queen puts drawing verité between the covers side, Legal Tender is Marion Foster’s second (The Mon-
of her most recent release. Available in February at archs Are Flying) hard-driving, fast-paced, action-filled
your local bookstore, or directly from the producer. | mystery.
136 pages 8⁄2 x 5⁄2 240 pages 5⁄2 x 81⁄2
$ 8.95 paper ISBN 1-56341-008-7 $ 9.95 paper ISBN 1-56341-010-9
$18.95 cloth ISBN 1-56341-009-5 $20.95 cloth ISBN 1-56341-011-7
14I The Commons, Ithaca, New York 14850 .
Available a f nr do m t hB eoo k Ip neo lap nl6e0d, 7 - B2Bo7o o2k-o0s kl0i0 n 0g C e orF,im r e` pbra:n yan d Boo S G
January/February 1992 80 Volume 14 Number 5
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:00:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Compiled by Carol Seajay NAIAD PRESS
The new year will bring Sarah Aldridge’s loyal
FBN will be continuing with our new program of readership to your store for A Flight of Angels. Set
inviting feminist publishers to write their own short(!) new during the McCarthy era, this romantic novel portrays
‚book announcements. In this issue, we have announce- the relationship between Clemence, a woman in the
ments from Aunt Lute and Naiad. Look for more direct-to- National Gallery of Art, and Elissa, a staff member for
feminist-booksellers announcements in the next issue of a congressional committee, during the time when na-
FBN. tional paranoia gripped America. $9.95 pb, 1-56280-
001-9.
AUNT LUTE BOOKS
In Send My Roots Rain by Ibis Gomez-Vega an
urban artist running from her history acts as an unwit-
ting catalyst that exposes the legacy of the past of a
small bordertown and its inhabitants. Memory and
the land form potent ties that bind the diverse charac-
ters in their various roles as artist, priest, prostitute,
lovers and friends. This desert romance explores the
power of unexpected change that can heal and trans-
form lives. Send My Roots was the first runner-up in
the 1990 Spinsters/ Aunt Lute Lesbian Fiction Contest.
(Available now. Previously announced for June.) $9.95
pb, 0-933216-80-7. Aunt Lute Books, PO Box 410687,
San Francisco CA 94141. BP, IN, etc.
—Aunt Lute Books
Bookpeople (BP) and Inland (IN) distribute small press
books to bookstores. “BP” or “IN” at the end of an annota-
tion means that the books are available from that distributor.
Both distributors stock a wide range of titles and publishers
of interest to feminist bookstores. If you are a new store or
don't already work with both distributors, drop everything
and call for catalogs. Your mystery readers will be delighted by Hous-
Inland Book Company, PO Box 120261, 140 Com- ton Town, the solid gold follow-up to Deborah
merce St., East Haven CT 06512. Order number: 800-243- Powell's acclaimed Bayou City Secrets, which intro-
0138 (including Canada and Connecticut). duced the brassiest, sassiest private eye in all of mys-
Bookpeople, 7900 Edgewater Dr, Oakland CA 94621. tery fiction. Hard-boiled Hollis Carpenter is out again,
Phone: 800-999-4650. prowling the back streets of 1930s Houston in this
Volume 14 Number 5 81 January/February 1992
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:00:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
The End of April A Singular Spy
Penny Sumner Amanda Kyle Williams
A VICTORIA CROSS MYSTERY A MADISON McGUIRE ESPIONAGE THRILLER
Victoria (Tor) Cross brings a wealth of na- Madison McGuire returns — in the third
tural skills to her work as a private investigator. high-voltage adventure in this thrilling series.
She is also, by profession, an archivist. In Geneva, the murder of an insignificant
At the request of her Aunt Rosemary, a station clerk has set into motion a chain of
professor at Oxford, Tor has left New York events that will lead Madison McGuire from
to return to her native England to assist in her quiet life with lover Terry to her most
transcriptions — and to secretly check on law challenging and dangerous assignment: to
student April Tate. uncover a traitor — a lethally dangerous mole
Lesbian activist April has been the object — in the highest echelons of the government
of increasingly threatening letters. Are these of the United States.
attempts to scare her off — or is someone Directing an unauthorized action in neutral
s it nal vk ein ng t ih oe nr? ? O Ar n c dou l d t o t h i cs o mall p b lie c as tim e p ly m aA tp tr eil r’s s, Tor sS ew ci rt ez ce yr .l a n Sd oo, n M Mad ai dso isn o n m lu es at r n o s p e ar lla t e a b oin ut u at m vo is ct -
finds herself falling in love with April. ious killer named Natasha, a spy named Raven,
Death intrudes, suddenly and violently... and the menace that will reach into Madison’s
ISBN 1-56280-007-8 $8.95 p Ie Srso Bnal N lif e . 1-56280-008-6 $8.95
1
January/ February 1992 82 Volume 14 Number 5
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:00:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)4:56 UTC
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
unique, feisty, very comical mystery series. $8.95 pb, covers a strange legacy of confusion and doubt. The
-006-X. emotional turbulence forces her to confront her
Victoria Cross, who integrates her arcane work as childhood and redefine her adult life in response to
an archivist with private detection, manages to also the discovery of her adoption. “A rich and complex
combine romance with her investigation of mysteri- novel from a remarkably talented writer.” $11.99 pb,
ous doings at fabled Oxford in England. The End of -014-4.
April is a superior mystery, absorbing in its fine detail Eating Women is Not Recommended offers
and telling characterizations, its quietly building sus- short stories by Éilís Ní Dhuibhne wherethe mundane
' pense. Recommend it to your most discriminating and the macabre collide with gloriously comic results.
mystery readers. $8.95 pb, -007-8. US$ price not sent, £6.99, -029-9.
A can't miss is A Singular Spy, Amanda Kyle
Williams’ third espionage novel in a superbly enter-
taining series that picks up more burnish with each
book. Agent Madison McGuire's newest action-
packed adventure takes her to Switzerland with an
assorted cast of characters. Her mission: to uncover a
traitor at the highest level of America’s government.
$8.95 pb, 008-6.
The Naiad Press, PO Box 10543, Tallahassee FL
32302. IN, BF, et al. — Naiad Press
ATTIC PRESS
Over the past two decades, in the most unpromis- Il W
ing of contexts, a number of women in Northern Ireland
h wa ov re k e s do u ig nh t a t vo a rc il ee ta yr oa f s p wa ac ye s f to or tf re am nsin lai ts em t han eid r h fa ev me inism ; f |RSN N
into practical action. Against the Grain: The Contem- t
porary Women’s Movement in Northern Ireland by
Eileen Evason traces the stage-by-stage development of
the Movement, describes groups, actions and issues,
and analyses the dilemmas and differences facing RS
Northern Irish feminists. $7.99 pb, 1- 85594-019-1.
Cinderella on the Ball: Fairytales for Feminists
is the fifth in Attic’s highly successful series of fairy-
tales (Rapunzel's Revenge, Ms Muffet and Others, Mad Denise Kierans, from Cinderella on the Ball
and Bad Fairies, and Sweeping Beauties) and continues Attic has three new pamphlets in their LIP series:
in their tradition of exuberant, irreverent and irresist- Feminism and Eastern Europe by Ines Rieder (AIDS:
ible fairytales for feminists of all ages. $6.99 pb, 64 pgs, The Women and Cosmopolis) offers a lucid and timely
perfect bound, -027-2. : exploration of the major areas of agreement and dif-
When Deirdre returns to Ireland for her parents’ ference between feminism in the West and in Eastern
funeral in Belonging by Clairr O'Connor, she dis- European countries. $5.99, 017-5. Sex and Nation:
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:00:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
CLEIS PRESS
ISBN: 0-939416-55-7
12.95 paper
252 pages, 6 x 9
February
Autobiography/
Lesbian Studies
-- Carol Seajay
Women in Irish Culture and Politics by Gerardine in the mid-fifties. Set in Washington DC, it recreates
Meaney explores the relationship between national and affirms the spiritual, emotional and physical qual-
and sexual identity and the problems posed by nation- ities that enriched her childhood home. $13.95, 0-
alism for feminism in Ireland. It agues forcefully that 89239-100-6.
feminism in Ireland must deal centrally with the issue The Woman Who Outshone the Sun: The Leg-
of nationalism and maintain women’s interests against end of Lucia Zenteno by Alejandro Cruz Martinez,
any monolithic national identity which perpetuates adapted by Rosalma Zubizaretta, and illustrated by
patriarchy. $5.99, 015-9. Glass Slippers and Tough Fernando Olivera offers children a lyrical and mov-
Bargains: Women, Men and Power by Maureen ing story from ancient Mexico. It tells of a beautiful
Gaffney offers a lively and forthright account of the woman who arrives in a mountain village, of some
way power works in close personal relationships be- of the villagers’ fear of the unknown woman’s
tween women and men. She argues that men’s auto- power, and their decision to drive her away. But the
matic expectation that women will service their river and all the creatures of the river have fallen in
personal needs, and women’s expectations that this is love with her and leave with her. It is the children, in
their role, is at the core of current sexual politics. $5.99, the end, who ask her to forgive the unkindness and
-016-7. to return. An empowering story for all children
Attic Press, 4 Upper Mount St., Dublin 2, Ireland. about change, about people who are “different,” —
Distributed in the U.S. and Canada by Inland and and also about the importance of not messing with
Bookpeople. strong and powerful women! Bilingual: En-
glish /Spanish. $13.95, 0-89239-101-4. Both books are
CHILDREN’S BOOK PRESS in full color with library bindings. Children’s Book
I Remember 121, story and pictures by Francine Press, 6400 Hollis St. #4, Emeryville CA 94608. 510-
Haskins, offers children a loving memoir of growing 655-1978. Distributed by Talman. Also at Bookpeo-
up in a large, extended family in a Black neighborhood ple, Raintree, B&T, Ingram, etc.
January/February 1992 Volume 14 Number 5
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:00:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
CLEIS PRESS $7.50. 40% bookstore discount for 10+. NWHP, 7738
Boomer: Railroad Memoirs by Linda Niemann Bell Road, Windsor CA 95492.
Pw ra es s s o r ii ng i n 1a 9l 9ly 0, p bu ub tl i s nh ee vd e r b y ag gU rn ei sv sie vr es li yty m o af r k C ea tl ei df o r tn oia THE MINNESOTA WOMEN’S PRESS
lesbian, gay, and feminist readers, to the recovery The Need to Thrive: Women’s Organizations in
community, or to general readers. The Cleis paper- the Twin Cities by Judy Remington looks at the history
back edition will take care of that! Boomer is an on- of women’s organizations in Minneapolis/St. Paul to
the-(rail)road spiritual autobiography, a lesbian see why and how so many of the women’s organiza-
adventure in the American West, a story of personal tions that were the norm in the seventies — radical,
transformation, of physical jeopardy and exhaustion, hostile to the mainstream, unambiguously dedicated to
of isolated places and precarious human connections. social change, small, informal, with minimal funding
It’s a quest for sex, solitude, and sobriety that FBN’s and rich with a feeling of open-ended possibilities — no
university press reviewer described as “so engaging longer exist. Forthright and provocative — and useful
that it’s hard to put down.” $12.95 pb, 0-939416-55-7. to women in the wider women’s community. $6.95 pb,
C Bl oe oi ks s lP inr ges es r, , P BO & T B , o x In g8 r9 a3 m3, , P etit ct .sburgh, PA 15221. IN, BP, 7 d6 is c op uag ne ts . , N p oe r f me ic nt . b Oo ru dn ed r, f0 r- o9 m62 9 4 T9 h1 e- 0 - M8 i. n n40 es% o t ab o Wok os mto er ne ’s
Press, 771 Raymond Ave., St. Paul MN 55114.
NATIONAL WOMEN’S HISTORY PROJECT
Las Mujeres: Mexican American/Chicana
Women collects short biographies and full-page pho-
tographs of seventeen women from the Spanish Colo-
nial Period to the present. Many of the women
featured made their mark in the public arena, some National Women’s
are examples of the important roles women play
within their families and immediate communities.
Overview sections stress that women who lived in the History Project
Southwest while it was under Mexican control had far
more rights than women living in the U.S. — and lost
them all when the U.S. took control of California, POST-APOLLO PRESS
Nevada, Utah, Colorado, Arizona and New Mexico. The Post-Apollo Press is publishing two titles in
Rights lost by these women included the right to January. Josef is Dying by Ulla Berkéwicz (translated
retain control of their property when they married, from the German by Gerald Williams) offers a quasi-
half interest in all property they shared with their hallucinatory intensity, a series of body movements,
husbands, the right to buy and sell the crops and gestures and a few utterances by which we witness the
animals they raised, the right to operate their own workings of death around and in the body of an old
businesses and to enter into contracts in their own man alive to the last fraction of a second of life. $11.00
names, and to bring suit or testify in court — even pb, 0-942996-15-1.
against their own husbands. One of many excellent Agatha and Savannah Bay, two plays by Mar-
multicultural women’s history curriculum resources guerite Duras (translated from the French by Howard
published by NWHP. Bilingual: Spanish/English. Limolli), are both classic Duras. Savannah Bay was
85 January/February 1992
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:00:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
rights ordinance — what it is, what it does, what it
The who, what, where... and why of the Women’s Spirit- means, and how it works.” $5.50. 40% discount on 5+.
uality Movement beautifully explained by Jade, a Net 30. Order from Southern Sisters, 411 Morris $t.,
hvi as si o n bear eny , i nor g ta hn ei z e fr o, r ec fa rt oa nly ts t o, f t e ta hc eh e Wr oa mnd en ’W s i St pch ir i tw uh alo ity Durham NC 27701. 919-682-0739. As Melody writes,
Movement since 1975. “All the coolest stores are ordering them!”
VIRAGO
á "...wonderful, broad based and
; illuminating ..." Two more Virago titles have been released in the
Margot Adler U.S.: In Once a Feminist: Stories of a Generation
Drawing Down the Moon Michelene Wandor interviews seventeen women who
participated in the landmark Women’s Liberation Con-
B `...a clear and thorough guide to ference (at Ruskin College, Oxford) in 1970 and gives
$ i t wh oe m en ne ’w s sp pa it rh its u aa ln itd y . .p ."ractices of tu hs e a h em aro tv i n og f a tn hd e h mig ovh ely m e nre ta d —ab l e a n a dc c o hu on wt to hf e t mhe o v eli mve es n t at
Amber K
Beginning True Magick a inf cf le uc dt ee d S han eid la s h Ra op we bd o tt hh ae mir , l Jiv ue lis e. t W Mo im tce hn e l li ,n t Se er lv mie awed
ISBN 1-878980-00-9 paper $13.95 James and Sue O'Sullivan. $15.95 (!) pb, 1-85381- 000-2.
40% discount 5+books Catch of Hands by Benedicta Leigh is an poignant
autobiography about her sheltered early life and the
breakdowns that followed her father’s death and a
(e10) g| D Be ol xp h 1i 5 3P 8r e s Os a, k I n Pc a. rk, IL 60304 lover’s suicide — and her determination to rescue her
[0] oNSy (708) 524-7900 Fax (708) 524-7902 own life. Born in 1922, Leigh trained for the theatre,
performed, and raised two children. $13.95 pb, 1-
85381-191-2. Virago Press titles are distributed in the
written (and directed by) Marguerite Duras for Mad- U.S. by Trafalgar Square, North Pomfret VT 05053.
eleine Renaud, an actress having reached the “splen-
dor of the age.” “Agatha goes even deeper into the
unclear, unsaid, the inexpressible which is one of the
elements of the Duras fascination. An empty house, its
walls bare, a window open on a winter sun... A brother
and a sister dressed with all the various nuances of
white, are plugging themselves away from the impos- WAGES DUE LESBIANS
sible, are retelling each other the tearing violence of Policing the Bedroom and How We Can Refuse
their incestuous love, are remembering.” $14.00 pb, It looks at the ways Section 28, the British law passed
0-942996-16-X. Post-Apollo Press, 35 Marie St., in 1988 which prohibits “promoting homosexuality,”
Sausalito CA 94965. BP and IN. is affecting the day-to-day lives of everyone, lesbian,
SOUTHERN SISTERS g Way ag, e so r D us et r a Li eg sh bt i. a n T ’sh i 1s 9 8n 8e w p a mpa pm hp leh tl e t O u i tn c oo fr p o tr ha et e s Clause
Southern Sisters Bookstore has leaped into the into the Workhouse which discussed the ways that sex-
distribution whirl by taking on distribution Pornogra- ual choice is inseparable from class, race, work and
phy & Civil Rights by Andrea Dworkin and Cather- money. Policing the Bedroom adds an interview with
ine A. MacKinnon. “In this comprehensive and a lesbian teacher who successfully fought dismissal in
easy-to-read guidebook, the co-authors of the anti- a first-hand account of how Section 28 is being used.
pornography civil rights ordinance explain: How por- The pamphlet also includes a short essay, “Whose
nography hurts women and how and why the Pride?” which questions the accountability and direc-
civil-rights ordinance would make a difference. Why tion of Lesbian and Gay Pride events, and “Counting
the pornography issue is so important to women’s the Work of Being Lesbian,” a partial list of the un-
equality. The truth about the antipornography civil- waged work that lesbians do that Wages Due Lesbians
January/February 1992 86 Volume 14 Number 5
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:00:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
wants to be counted and included in the gross national other (take find in as many ways as possible) and, of
product as part of a largér campaign pressing for course solve the mystery which includes missing
implementation of the 1985 UN decision that govern- armed priests, molten lava, Aunt Gertrude in San
ments count women’s unwaged work in every Francisco and much drama. In The Hardy Boys in A
country’s gross national product. Pamphlet #7 in the Ghost in the Closet, the Boys go off to visit their Uncle
Centrepieces series. $3.50, 52 pages, staple bound. Nelly at Lake Merrimen, have a Gay Adventure and
40% bookstore discount. Order from Wages Due Les- learn that their parents were really cross-dressing les-
bians in San Francisco (PO Box 14512, 94114) or in bians. Oh dear. Did I spoil something? Oh well. Turn
' Philadelphia (PO Box 11795, 19101). the page. Watch for forthcoming titles such as Cherry
Ames: Twelve-Step Nurse, Cherry Ames: Girls School
WOMAN'S INSTITUTE FOR CONTINUING Nurse, and Cherry Ames: Shoe Store Nurse.
JEWISH EDUCATION They've been available in Bay Area bookstores
A Ceremonies Sampler: New Rites, Celebra- for the last several months and are quite the popular
tions, and Observances of Jewish Women edited by item. Great for reading aloud. $12.00 each. Spiral
Elizabeth Resnick Levine, announced for last August, bindings, color covers. 40% bookstore discount.
is now in print. It presents a unique collection of new Order from World O’'Girls Books (but make checks
ceremonies created (by a number of different women) out to Mabel Maney), 422 Missouri St., San Francisco
to honor and recognize events and changes in CA 94107.
women’s lives. The ceremonies included address ev-
erything from preparing for parenthood, pregnancy
rituals, birth and post-partum celebrations, to healing
and leave-taking ceremonies as well as maturation
and milestone ceremonies (my favorite of which was
“Ceremony Upon Becoming a Vegetarian”) and, of
course, holiday celebrations. I was especially moved
by the invented separation ceremony, created by a
woman who was traveling frequently between her
home and lover on one coast and schooling on the Magazines
other and by a ceremony to exorcise the memory and The first issue of Short Fiction by Women, edited
oppression of the Get, the orthodox Jewish divorce by Rachel Whalen, is out. Short Fiction is dedicated to
ritual. 40% bookstore discount, no min. $9.95 pb, 0- making a place for quality short fiction — short sto-
9608054-9-4. Order from the Woman’s Institute for ries, novel excerpts, and novellas — by women. The
Continuing Jewish Education, 4126 Executive Drive, first issue collects 13 stories that describe wide rang-
La Jolla CA 92037. 619-442-2666. ing situations, cultures, events, and experiences.
Check it out! $6.00. 126 pages, perfect bound. Book-
WORLD O'GIRLS BOOKS store terms not sent. Short Fiction by Women, Box
Ready yourselves for a rare treat: Mabel Maney 1276 Stuyvesant Station, NY NY 10009.
has rewritten and recreated Cherry Ames, Nancy
Drew and The Hardy Boys in, well, a gayer (and Correction: The correct price for The Spinifex
hilarious) incarnation. In The Case of the Not-So- Book of Women’s Answers is US$9.95, not $12.95 as
Nice Nurse Cherry Ames and Nancy Drew find each reported in the last issue. O
87 January/February 1992
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:00:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
E
| :
by Kris Kovick
The truth is funnier than fiction.
QOD! 1 TREAMT
Here's an inside look at the wry and I WAS PLAYING
occasionally warped mind of Kris SCRABBLE WITH
MRY DAYI
Kovick, featuring some 140 of her
cartoons, plus essays on religion and
therapy (”I try to keep them separate,
but it’s hard”), lesbians and gay men,
politics, sexuality, parenting, and
American culture.
by Kris Kovick
160 pages
January/February 1992
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:00:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsBy Ann Morse entries to illuminate a clash between a white priest
and the native people he seeks to convert. Switching
“I am a pure, full-blooded Klamath River viewpoints between several characters, Holdstock
woman...I wear the tattoos on my chin that (have) been tells the story of the priest's arrival in an Indian village
the custom for our women for many generations. I was on the coast of British Columbia in 1860. While he
born at Pec-wan village, and of highest birth...” So believes he is successfully converting the villagers,
writes Lucy Thompson (Che-na-wah Weitch-ah-wah), their motivations for conversion and the conse-
at the beginning of her book To the American Indian: quences of his actions are far different and more fatal
Reminiscences of a Yurok Woman, first published in than he ever envisioned. $9.95 pb, 0-921586-25-6. New
1916 out of her concern about the survival of her people Star Books, 2504 York Avenue, Vancouver BC Canada
and customs, and that white people were writing so V6K 1E3. BF, IN.
much about American Indians that was “guessed at and
not fact.” Heyday Books has now reissued Thompson’s
history, with a care the original text did not receive,
probably because of problems with the manuscript cou-
pled with bigotry and/or indifference, writes historian
Peter E. Palmquist in the foreword. Introduction by
Julian Lang, a member of the Karuk tribe. Illustrated
with black and white photographs. $12.95 pb, 0-930588- N
47-9. Heyday Books, PO Box 9145, Berkeley CA 94709.
Distributed by Bookpeople and Inland.
In Pauline Holdstock’s novella The Burial
Ground, the author weaves prose, poetry and journal
ps
Bookpeople (BP) and Inland (IN) distribute small press —
books to bookstores. “BP” or “IN” at the end of an annota-
tion means that the books are available from that distributor.
Both distributors stock a wide range of titles and publishers
o df o nin 't ter e s at l rt eo a f de ym in i wst o b ro kok s t wore is t. h I f byo ou t har e d a i sn te rw i bst uo tre o ro sr , drop everything From Lear an nin d g M t ao n i cC o p De e p rw ei st sh io n Depression
and call for catalogs.
Inland Book Company, PO Box 120261, 140 Com- So disgustingly familiar: a drunk driver slams his
merce St., East Haven CT 06512. Order number: 800-243- car into another vehicle, severely injuring one person
0138 (including Canada and Connecticut). and killing a second, and emerges unscathed. Fine:
Bookpeople, 7900 Edgewater Dr, Oakland CA 94621. $250. For the narrator of Marianne Langner Zeitlin’s
Phone: 800-999-4650. novel Next of Kin, this is not just another note tucked
89 January/February 1992
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:00:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
with ‘the words for which they are longing,’ she
Melinda Goodman makes balance out of chaos. Napoleon’s Mare, 13
chapters and a section of prose poems, is a diatribe, a
is a winner discontinuous narrative — as much about writing as
about the bewildering process of constructing a self.”
of the Pieces of this verbal collage include her relationships
Astraea Foundation with women, a lesbian custody battle, a self-cesarean...
$8.95 pb, 0-932511-48- 1; $18.95 c], -47-3.
1991 Lesbian Also from FC2, comes Kathryn Thompson’s
Close Your Eyes and Think of Dublin: Portrait of a
Girl. “In this Joycean hallucination the richness of
Poetry Award Leopold Bloom's inner life is found in a young Amer-
“Soaring, sad, eloquent — Jic oa yn c eg : i r sl e x e , x p ce hr ui re cn hc in ag n d t h oe p p t rh ei sn sig os n .”t h a $t 8 . 9v 5e x ped b , J -a 4m 2-e 2s ;
Goodman’s poems have a direct $18.95 cl, -41-4. Fiction Collective Two, c/o Depart-
and telling effect upon me.” ment of English, Illinois State University, Normal IL
— Audre Lorde 61701. Talman.
A former editor of Conditions, Goodman Set in 1950s New York City, Yvonne V. Sapia’s
teaches poetry at Hunter College in Valentino’s Hair tells the story of a Puerto Rican boy
Manhattan. Her book, Middle Sister a hn ad ir h ii ns 1f 9a 2th 6.e r W, ha e nb a r tb he er , b aw rbh eo r c du it s c oR vu ed ro sl p th h eV a hle ain rt i n co li’ ps -
($7.95) is available through Inland. pings are an aphrodisiac, he uses them to seduce a
800-243-0138. young American woman, with fatal consequences.
Winner of the 1991 Charles H. and N. Mildred Nilon
in the corner of a newspaper. The woman killed is her Excellence in Minority Fiction Award. $8.95 pb, -46-5;
sister Esther Persky, and the tragedy is not only $18.95 cl, 45-7. (Fiction Collective Two, English De-
Esther’s death, but the way the system reduces her partment Publications Center, University of Colorado
death to a statistic. As members of Esther’s Canadian at Boulder, Boulder CO 80309.)
Jewish family gather to grieve, they remember Esther’s
past, grapple with the present and refuse to let her be Sex, drugs, rock ‘n roll, chakras and lightening
forgotten. $9.95 pb, 0-939010-15-1. Zephyr Press, 13 storms are the back drop for Pat LittleDog’s In Search
Robinson St., Somerville MA 02145. InBook, IN, BP. of the Holy Mother of Jobs, which focuses on an
eccentric Texan who’s looking for a living while trying
Toni Volk’s Montana Women follows the lives of to be a wife, mother and writer. $9.95 pb, 0- 938317-15-
two close sisters in a small Montana town: practical 6. Cinco Puntos Press, 2709 Louisville, El Paso, TX
Pearl, who needs a man for meaning, and the uncon- 79930. BP, IN.
ventional Etta, whose views on women’s rights, reli-
gion and life have people talking. The novel begins in
the 1940s, as both women seek to start a new life after
losing their parents and their men. $19.95 cl, 0-939149-
60-5. Soho Press, 853 Broadway, New York NY 10003. In case you missed them: Lavender Press and
Distributed by Farrar, Straus and Giroux. Toby Johnson (of Liberty Books in Austin, TX) have
two “out-of-this-world” books: the ghost story Get-
In Lou Robinson's Napoleon’s Mare, co-winner ting Life in Perspective, which features a novel within
of the 1991 Fiction Collective Two and Illinois State a novel, and Lammy Award winner Secret Matter, a
University National Fiction Competition, a woman book to shelve with gay science fiction, or maybe
writes by cutting words and animal pictures from romantic comedies, or perhaps spirituality... Author
newspapers and magazines. “By joining the pictures Toby Johnson stresses that these novels feature “posi-
January/February 1992 Volume 14 Number 5
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:00:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
tive portrayals of gay life and the spiritual identity of ager for Inland. $9 pb, 0-914610-97-X; $16 cl, -98-8.
homosexuals.” Getting Life in Perspective, a Hanging Loose, 231 Wyckoff St., Brooklyn NY 11217.
“mytho-historical romance with a gay- positive spiri- IN.
tual message woven in,” follows stressed out editor
Rick Carlton who retires to a neglected mansion in Editor Assoto Saint puts what he calls “one more
Texas — only to find it’s not quite as empty as he first stepping-stone on the road to gay Black poetical em-
assumed. Carlton eventually discovers that the two powerment” with the publication of The Road Before
“Topperesque apparitions” haunting him used to live Us (100 Gay Black Poets). One hundred poets, new
with other gay men and lesbians at the Clear Light and known, each present one poem in this testament
Colony in the Colorado mountains, a turn-of-the-cen- to gay Black life. As Bland J. “BJ” Carr says in his
tury commune based on the ideas of Edward Carpen- contribution, “Listen well.” $10 pb, 0-9621675-1-7.
ter and Walt Whitman. $10 pb, 0-938743-17-1. Galiens Press, Box 4026, 524 W. 23rd St., New York NY
In Secret Matter, architect Kevin Anderson is 10011.
helping to reconstruct San Francisco after the Great
1996 Earthquake when he meets one of Them — an
alien from space. As his relationship with this alien
develops, Anderson uncovers secret matters about
himself and the purpose of the aliens’ visit — truths
that he begins to realize must be spoken to save the
earth. A coming out story with an extraterrestrial
twist. $10 pb, -13-9. Lavender Press, PO Box 998, South
Norwalk CT 06856. 4+ prepaid orders at 45% discount
and free freight. BP, IN.
Incest, abuse, rape, suffering, the loss of inno-
cence, but above all survival, endurance, and dignity
in the face of despair are the themes of Linda
McCarriston’s poems in Eva-Mary. This powerful
collection won the Terrence Des Pres Prize for Poetry
and was nominated for the 1991 National Book
Award for poetry. $10.95 pb, 0-929968-26-3; $17.95 c|, For the first time all of Grace Paley’s poems in
-27-1. Published by TriQuarterly Books, Northwest- print Have been gathered into one volume, Grace
ern University, 2020 Ridge Ave., Evanston IL 60208 Paley: New and Collected Poems. A wonderful book,
and Another Chicago Press, Box 11223, Chicago IL though it’s not clear how many of the poems are new.
60611. Distributed by IN and ILPA, PO Box 816, Oak $12.95 pb, 0-88448-099-2; $19.95 cl, 098-4. Tilbury
Park IL 60303. House, The Boston Building, 132 Water St., Gardiner
ME 04345. IN and Consortium.
Hanging Loose press has published Maureen
Owen’s seventh collection of poetry, Imaginary In- Secret Weavers: Stories of the Fantastic by
come. Poet Anne Waldman praises the poems in this Women of Argentina and Chile, edited by Marjorie
48-page book for their wit, exuberance, imagination Agosin, traces the history of “fantastic literature” in
and humor. Owen, incidentally, is the catalog man- Chile and Argentina from the early 1930s through
91 January/February 1992
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:00:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
“blend of sweet romance, social commentary and entertainng science America; a dream others could not understand. “My
fiction... the sort of easy-going read rarely found in gay fiction, and mother,” she writes in her travelogue An Amazon and
very welcome.” Richard Labonte, A Different Light Bookstores a Donkey, “even offered me ten sessions with a psy-
chiatrist, at one stage, convinced that my dream to
1990 Lambda Literary Award travel down the Amazon was really an obsessive fix-
Gay Men’s Science Fiction ation (I remember wishing she would offer a mosquito
net instead).” Despite attempts to dissuade her, Scott-
Toby Johnson’s Stokes set off in March 1989 on a seventh-month jour-
ney following the Amazon from its headwaters in the
Secret Matter Andes all the way to the sea. She recounts her journey
candidly, with humor and insight, and with an aware-
These are gay-positive, life-affirming novels that ness that while she is on an adventure, most of the
w .. i l tl h aa tp p e wa il l l n lo et a v eo n l ry e a dt eo r s g a ty o u cm he en d and happy p $e 2o 4pl .e 9 5 s h e c le ,n c 0ou -n 7t 1e 2rs 6 -a 3r 4e 5 s 2t -ru 5g . g li Rn ag n f do or m t h e Cir e nli tv ues r. y, 20
and glad to be alive Vauxhall Bridge Road, London SW1V 2SA. Distrib-
... the kind of books feminist and lesbian & gay u Pt oe md f rb ey t VTr Ta f 0a 5lg 0a 5r 3 . Square/David & Charles, North
booksellers went into business in the first place
to make available to their communities
Edith A. Jenkins recalls her life as an activist in
— New from Toby Johnson — the San Francisco Bay Area from about 1917 to 1991
in Against A Field Sinister. Born in San Francisco in
Getting Life in 1913 into a family of German- Jewish settlers,
Jenkins went to work for the peace movement and
Perspective the Old Left. Later, as a teacher at Merritt College in
A Spiritual Romance Novel Oakland, she fought for the establishment of Afri-
can-American and women’s studies programs, and
“...a healing book, a book for both lesbians and gay men, a book to the teacher's union. $7.95 pb, 0-87286-263-1. City
help us imagine our roots. I love Ed lle n Rit atn e ra , n Thd e O td hari d Sin da ’ t of tw ha a Fn amt ily it to end.” Lights Books, 261 Columbus Ave., San Francisco, CA
From Lavender Press, P.O. Box 998, S. Norwalk, CT 06856 (203) 849 9311. 94133. BP, IN.
Distributed in the U.S. by Inland, Bookpeople
S Ge ec tr te it n g M Uat ft ee lr n P I eS rB spN e c t0 i- v9 e3 8 7 IS4 B-1 N3 - 9 0 - 92 30 88 7p 4a -g 1e 7s - 1 f t 2r 2a 4d pe pp sa p e t r ar de et a i plp apic ee r $ r1 e0 t. a0 i0 lprice $10.00 A
today. The anthology features Agosin’s introduction
to the literature, and fairy tales, science fiction, meta- When Linda Hasselstrom moved with her family
phorical political tales and other stories of magic-real- from a small town to a ranch at the age of nine, she fell
ism by 18 writers. $14 pb, 1-877727-15-6. Also from in love — with the land. Through the essays and
White Pine Press comes the bilingual edition of Circles poems in Land Circle: Writings Collected from the
of Madness: Mothers of the Plaza de Mayo, which Land, she shares the connections she feels with the
brings together the poems of Marjorie Agosin and the land around her ranch in South Dakota, and the les-
black and white photographs of Alicia D'Amico and sons she has learned from that land, lessons which
Alicia Sanguinetti to bear witness to the “disap- concern “birth, death, and responsibility for the life
peared” in Argentina. Royalties from the books are between.” Her reflections range from environmental
being donated to Amnesty International. $13 pb, -17-2. concerns, animal rights issues and women and reli-
White Pine Press, 76 Center Street, Fredonia NY 14063. gion, to celebrating life, mourning the dead and carry-
InBook, IN, BP. ing a pistol. Hasselstrom is also the author of
Windbreak (Barn Owl Books) and Going Over East (Ful-
Englishwoman Natascha Scott-Stokes had al- crum). $19.95 cl, 1-55591-082-3. Fulcrum Publishing,
ways dreamed of traveling — alone — through South 350 Indiana St. Suite 350, Golden CO 80401. BP, IN.
January/February 1992 92 Volume 14 Number 5
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:00:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsRE/Search continues its line of provocative titles end, a “shamaness,” and seven historical figures, from
with RE/Search #13: Angry Women. This issue fea- a female sovereign to a court lady, woman warrior,
tures interviews with 16 performance artists talking dowager shogun, journalist-educator, actress and
about their lives, their art and their thoughts on, well, novelist. Through these writings, the book surveys the
everything. Discoursing on “contemporary socio-po- changing images of Japanese women heroes. Edited
litical issues” are Karen Finley, Annie Sprinkle, Kathy by Chieko Irie Mulhern. $15.95 pb, 0-87332-552-4;
Acker, Avital Ronell, Lydia Lunch, Diamanda Galas, $39.95 c], -527-3. M.E. Sharpe, 80 Business Park Drive,
Holly Hughes, Sapphire, Susie Bright, bell hooks, Car- Armonk, NY 10504. IN.
olee Schneemann, Valie Export, Linda Montano,
. Wanda Coleman, Suzy Kerr and Dianne Malley. We
probably should also add interviewer (and RE/ Search
co-publisher/editor) Andrea Juno to that list, as one
reader we know found her comments and questions An engrossing, thought-provoking dialogue be-
to be one of the most controversial aspects of the book. tween bells hooks and Cornel West comprises the
$18.99 pb, 0-940642-24-7. RE/Search, 20 Romolo St., majority of their new title Breaking Bread: Insurgent
Suite B, San Francisco CA 94133. Distributed by BP, IN Black Intellectual Life. They dissect and define Black
and Subco, PO Box 168 or 265 So. 5th St., Monroe OR intellectuality and discuss issues from theology, the-
97456; 800-274-7826. ory and politics to literature, film, music and fashion.
“Speaking to the critically thinking masses inside and
Pueblo Mothers and Children: Essays by Elsie outside of academe, hooks and West call for greater
Clews Parsons, edited by Barbara A. Babcock, focuses politicization and critical engagement in the process
on the feminist anthropologists pioneering studies of transforming contemporary culture and politics.”
into the connection between the development of cul- $12 pb, 0-89608-414-0. Also from South End Press
ture, and the development of gender roles, sexuality comes a fascinating and eye-opening look at The
and reproduction. Parsons started her fieldwork at Coors Connection: How Coors Family Philanthropy
Zuni in 1915 and continued her research on the South- Undermines Democratic Pluralism by Russ Bellant.
western Pueblos until 1924. In 10 essays from this Bellant exposes the family’s influential role in Ameri-
period, Parsons gives detailed accounts of Pueblo In- can politics and their connections with and contribu-
dian beliefs and customs surrounding pregnancy, tions to right-wing individuals, organizations and
childbirth, child rearing, marriage, gender and Zuni causes. $9 pb, 416-7. South End Press, 116 St. Botolph
“men-women” at Hopi, Zuni, Laguna and the Tewa St., Boston MA 02115. BP, IN.
pueblos. Illustrated with photos from the Museum of
New Mexico's historic collection. $14.95 pb, 0-941270- Now for a short rant: Beware a title from Hunt-
65-3; $29.95 cl, 66-1. Ancient City Press, PO Box 5401, ington House Publishers called “Soft Porn” Plays
Sante Fe NM 87502. BP. Hardball. Rather than a feminist discussion of porn,
it’s a new right treatise on how “soft porn” is destroy-
0 ing The American Family, “stripping future genera-
tions of their moral fiber and strength” and leading to
such social ills as “divorce, suicide, abortion, child
Heroic With Grace: Legendary Women of Japan abuse, neglect, homosexuality, promiscuity” and the
studies the lives and historical/ sociopolitical times of spread of the “homosexually incubated AIDS virus.”
eight prominent women in Japan: one woman of leg- Maybe the Coors would like this book? Next...
93 January/February 1992
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:00:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
The international organization Women for Mu- Office is a fictionalized account of Lansing’s bid for state
tual Security grew out of a watchdog group created to office at a time when no woman had ever been elected to
monitor the first summit between Soviet President a state office ($9.95 pb, 887-7). R & E Publishers, PO Box
Mikhail Gorbachev and U.S. President Ronald Reagan 2008, Saratoga CA 95070. BP, IN.
in 1985. In early 1991, members of WMS met on the
South Pacific Island of Vanuatu to discuss promoting
a feminist agenda for world policies. From this meet- / Y i h jie
ing emerged Women’s Voices on the Pacific: The
Pacific Policy Congress, an anthology featuring William Petrocelli, familiar to FBN readers as the
scholarly and historical essays by women leaders attorney who served as antitrust counsel for the North-
from around the world. “Their message is compelling ern California Booksellers Association, a dissident.
and moral, as it documents the history of patriarchal member of the Board of Directors of the ABA and co-
politics and sets down principles for new social and owner of Book Passage in Corte Madera CA, has co-
economic policies based upon the dignity of all people written with Barbara Kate Repa a very promising title,
and the value of women’s experience.” Edited by Le- Sexual Harassment on the Job. This guide, published
onora Foerstel. $12.95 pb, 0-944624-14-6; $26.95 cl, by the highly esteemed legal self-help press Nolo, de-
-13-8. Maisonneuve Press, PO Box 2980, Washington scribes sexual harassment and the laws that make it
DC 20013. 20% for 1-5, 40% for 6+. IN, Small Press illegal, and describes ways to end the problem and
Distribution in the US, Marginal in Canada. enforce the laws. Looks like a good book for workers
experiencing harassment and companies who want to
prevent such insidious incidents. $14.95 pb, 0-87337-1771.
Nolo Press, 950 Parker St., Berkeley CA 94710. BP, IN.
Curious about cooperatives? Bell Springs, pub-
lisher of Small Time Operator, has just come out with an
everything-you- always-wanted-to-know volume
called We Own It: Starting and Managing Coopera-
tives and Employee Owned Ventures, by Peter Jan
Honigsberg, Bernard Kamoroff and Jim Beatty. The
authors will lead you through the nitty-gritty of run-
ning cooperatives, from financing, insurance, permits,
bookkeeping, personnel and taxes, to the history of
cooperatives and a glossary of terms. Also includes
From We Own It: Starting and Managing Cooperatives sample articles and bylaws from co-ops including
Bookpeople. $14 pb, 0-917510-08-9. Bell Springs, PO
Two books on women seeking office, 191 Tips for Box 640, Laytonville CA 95454. BP.
Women Candidates and Their Staffs and Campaigning
for Office: A Woman Runs, arrived with a wealth of Another reference title we received was Jane
practical tips and insights, and praise from Texas Gover- Bartlett's Ms. Bartlett’s Familiar Quotations, famous
nor Ann Richards and Oregon Governor Barbara Roberts. quotes and phrases with a female twist — “Big Sister
Both books are written by Jewel Lansing, who's served as is watching you,” etc. $6.95 pb, 0- 9610330-4-5. Joseph
an elected official for 11 years, worked on dozens of Tabler - Books, 3817 Fifth Ave., San Diego CA 92103.
campaigns and is a founder of WIN-PAC, a political 40% for 5+. Distributed by Sunbelt and Baker and
action committee dedicated to electing more pro-choice Taylor.
women to the Oregon Legislature. 101 Tips is a how-to-
campaign book covering topics from deciding to run and Health Communications has four new titles that
raising money, to tackling issues, the media and other might be of interest to booksellers with a recovery
candidates ($9.95 pb, 0-88247-886-9). Campaigning for section. Laurie Weiss’s An Action Plan for Your
January/February 1992 94 Volume 14 Number 5
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:00:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Inner Child: Parenting Each Other is a guide to is My Husband, Beverly Gaines focuses less on recov-
learning to receive and give parenting in a support ery and instead offers a “graphically written descrip-
group setting. The book provides scripts and explicit tion of emotional abuse;” an angry retelling of her life
directions for leading and/or participating in “Par- with an abusive man, from the “glaring signals” down
enting Each Other” sessions. Also includes work-
sheets and questionnaires. $10.95 pb, 1-55874-165-8.
In Late Bloomers: Weekly Inspirations for Women
in Their Prime, Mitzi Chandler uses affirmations,
anecdotes, exercises and inspirational quotes to in- to the “small daily situations.” The 416-page book ends
'spire women over 40 to appreciate their strengths with a call to speak out, and a short chapter outlining
and move toward self-discovery. $7.95 pb, -158-5. “Steps Out Of Hell”, life-saving emergency prepara-
Lois Frankel explores how expressing anger can ease tions such as knowing a safe place to go, renting a post
depression, and lead to empowerment in Women, office box, opening a checking account in your name,
Anger and Depression: Strategies for Self-Empow- hiding extra keys outside the house and compiling
erment ($8.95 pb, -161-5) while Sandy Bierig dis- records of important information. $12.95 pb, 0-
cusses how women become co-dependent, how we 9630053-0-8. Paragraph Publications, PO Box 2954,
face different issues in recovery compared to men, Pompano Beach FL 33072. Order from Paragraph /Dis-
and how to change our lives in Transforming the tinctive Publishing Corp., PO Box 17868, Plantation FL
Co-Dependent Woman ($7.95 pb, -115-1). Health 33318; 800-683-3722.
Communications, 3201 S.W. 15th St., Deerfield
Beach FL 33442. BP. Nancy Wainer Cohen has written a follow-up to
her 1983 title Silent Knife: Cesarean Prevention and Vag-
inal Birth After Cesarean (VBAC), which exposed the
country’s growing reliance on cesarean sections. In
her new book, Open Season: A Survival Guide for
In some cases you can judge a book by its cover, or Natural Childbirth and VBAC in the 90s, Cohen
a least get a bit of an idea about the author's approach. continues her fight to reclaim pregnancy and child-
Two quite differently covered books on domestic abuse birth. In her cheery, informal style, Cohen unfalter-
are: the recovery-oriented title Healing Your Life: Re- ingly pursues her goal of offering information to
covery from Domestic Abuse, which features a skele- lower the C-section rate, increase the number of
tal tree regaining its greenery, and the fiery Hell is My VBACs and re-awaken women to violations of hospi-
Husband: A “Silent Sorority” Sister Speaks!, featur- tal births, and the beauty of natural childbirth. $16.95
ing giant red-yellow-orange flames and a devil's pitch- pb, 0-89789-272-0; $29.95 cl, -252-6.
fork. In Healing Your Life, author Candace Marian Van Eyk McCain discusses the signifi-
Hennekens roots her narrative in her own experiences cance of menopause as both a major physical and
as a survivor of domestic abuse. Aimed at heterosexual spiritual event in women’s lives in Transformation
women, the book talks readers through topics includ- Through Menopause. Menopause, McCain says, is an
ing the importance of affirming yourself, dealing with empowering experience that women can use for per-
shame, career planning, goal setting and establishing sonal growth. Aimed at members of the “alternative-
healthy relationships (with men). $6.95 pb, 0-9630148- minded baby-boom generation who are seeking new
0-3. ProWriting Services and Press, 415 Terrill St., Chip- ways to approach middle age.” $12.95 pb, -269-0;
pewa Falls W154729.5-99 copies for $4.17 each. In Hell $39.95 cl, -268-2. Bergin & Garvey, an imprint of
95 January/February 1992
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:00:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Greenwood Publishing Group, 88 Post Road West, published by Advocacy Press so far include Mimi
Box 5007, Westport CT 06881. Distributed by National Takes Charge ($6.95 pb, 0-911655-50-6) and Mimi
Book Network. Makes a Splash ($6.95 pb, -51-4). Forthcoming titles
include Mimi Moves Ahead, Mimi Makes a Mark,
Mary Ellen Copeland created the practical work- Mimi Takes the Stage, Mimi Finds Friends and Mimi
book Learning to Cope with Depression and Manic Shows the Way. Advocacy Press, PO Box 4426, Santa
Depression with the help of vocational rehabilitation Barbara CA 93140. 20% for 1-4, 40% for 5-24. BP, IN,
counselors, health care professionals and some 120 Ingram, Baker and Taylor, Wieser Educational, Pacific
people diagnosed with manic depression and major Pipeline, Gordon’s Books, Follett Library Company.
depression, including herself. The book covers topics
such as coping with, avoiding and preventing depres-
sion, mania and suicide; possible causes of mood dis-
orders; finding support; and evaluating lifestyles and
living space choices. Videos on coping with depres-
sion also available. $20. Four or more copies at $18
each. Order from Mary Ellen Copeland, PO Box 6237,
Brattleboro VT 05302.
Also aimed at children and young adults is Lu-
In Father Hunger: Fathers, Daughters and Food, cretia Mott: Friend of Justice, written by Kem Knapp
Margo Maine describes “father hunger” as the unful- Sawyer and illustrated by Leslie Carow ($7.95 pb 1-
filled longing for emotional connection with the fa- 878668-08-0, $17.95 cl, -04-8), and The Lowell Mill
ther, “which for girls and women, often translates into Girls: Life in the Factory, edited by JoAnne B. Weis-
conflicts about food and weight.” Maine delves into man ($3.50 pb, -06-4). Lucretia Mott, written for 9-14
the origins and manifestations of father hunger and year olds, features full-page color illustrations and a
describes how fathers often unwittingly contribute to foreword by Rosalynn Carter. The Lowell Mill Girls
their daughters’ problems. She also offers some strat- is a collection of essays and historical fiction present-
egies for ending father hunger, including developing ing different perspectives on the history of women
a strong men’s movement. $12.95 pb, 0-936077-09-3. working at the Lowell Mill in the 1840s. The Maryland
Gürze Books, Box 2238, Carlsbad CA 92008. 800-756- Department of Education recently adopted a large
7533. BP. portion of this book for statewide distribution to the
fourth and fifth grades. Discovery Enterprises, Suite
210, 134 Middle Street, Lowell MA 01852. 20% for 2-6,
40% for 7+. Distributed by Baker and Taylor, Ingram,
Brodart, Book Wholesalers and Follett.
a N The mother-daughter team of teachers Kathy
Sheehan and Mary Waidner have created an activity
From the Mimi series book, Earth Child: Games, Stories, Activities, Exper-
Advocacy Press, a division of the non-profit cor- iments & Ideas About Living Lightly on Planet
poration Advocacy for Girls, is committed to raising Earth, aimed at helping parents and teachers help
self-esteem in children. One of their ambassadors of their young children understand the problems facing
self-confidence and independence is the character our earth today. The many topics covered include the
Mimi. First published in French, each of the books in solar system, seasonal cycles, gardening, the roles of
the Mimi series (written and illustrated by Agnès trees, the uses of water, the effects of pollution, conser-
Rosenstiehl) features 10 very short adventure stories vation, extinction, our relationship with animals and
starring Mimi, an activity list and a space for children other people, and peacemaking activities. $16.95 pb,
to color in and write their own story. Each of the short 0-933031-39-4; $24.95 cl, 42-4. Council Oak Books,
adventures ends with a question for discussion. Titles 1428 South St. Louis, Tulsa OK 74120. IN.
January/February 1992 96
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:00:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
SIDELINES We recently received a three-tape set (in both
The Prairie Fire Organizing Committee of old has English and Spanish) on fighting AIDS from a com-
risen again, this time with a poster on sexual harass- pany called Image Enhancement, which appears to
ment. The 27-by-15 inch posters are in red, black, put out cassette tapes, albums, video tapes and
purple and lavender, feature the words “Ask Any home study courses on self-empowerment. All three
Woman About Sexual Harassment” and drawings of AIDS tapes — Alive and Living Well, Fight Back
those five white men in suits. $2 each, minimum of 10. Against HIV and AIDS: The Second Decade — are
Add $5 per order for shipping and handling. Order created by Bill Roberts, who is HIV-positive, and
from Prairie Fire Organizing Committee, PO Box feature soothing music by Bobby West. Two tapes —
14422, San Francisco CA 94114; 415- 330-5310. Fight Back and Alive and Living Well — feature
| E PERED F “special immune enhancing visualizations” by
Masa Goetz, Ph.D. Roberts asserts that there is no
reason anyone who's HIV-positive needs to progress
to having ARC or full-blown AIDS if they take re-
sponsibility for their well-being. “Trust in you abil-
ity to be well and you will be.” $9.95 each. Image
Enhancement, 2530 St. Andrews Dr., Glendale Ca
91206. Distributed by The Connolly Concern (re-
cently moved to 739 Fifth Ave. #29, San Diego CA
_sgyual farase 92101).
Mother Jones magazine has come out with two And a note to readers: In our review of The Basic
T-shirts featuring full-color cartoons that we thought Skills Caucasian Americans Workbook ($10 pb, No
might sell well in feminist stores. As part of Nicole ISBN, Oyate), a parody of patronizing texts on Amer-
Hollander’s artwork for the magazine’s “Blame it on ican Indians, we referred to author Beverly Slapin as
Feminism” article, she drew the two cartoons that are a Native writer. It turns out that she “actually thinks
now on the shirts. The “Hers” shirt features the “You like a white person...” because, wel], she is. The work-
will sleep...” cartoon on the front and statistics from book is available from Bookpeople. O
the article on the back: “Number of female U.S. sena-
tors — 2,” Number of female Fortune 500 chief execu-
tives — 2," “Percentage of top corporate managers
ow fh o a a mre a n f e sm ita tl ie n g — i n 5 , ” a n e t ec a. s y “ H ci hs” a i rs h ii nr t f b re oa nr ts oa f p ai c t Tu Vr .e , and y oNv 0WwIL,L SALeNepD WHN ,
the words “I'm really cleaning the house, even though Yov AWAKEN You'lL <
TI V a .p ” p e Ta hr e t 1o 0 0b %e cd or ti tn ok nin g T - sa h ic ra tn s co of m b e e e ir n a mnd ed iw umat ,c h li an rg ge ME VAAV AEN N EA Ad H yRie ev v eoy opuull
and extra-large. Mother Jones is selling them to read- DH eA epS l yM A unD HE A y po Pv Y . =
ers for $12.95 plus shipping and handling, but will sell
them at $9 each (about a 30% discount) to bookstores.
For more information contact Richard Reynolds,
Communications Director, Mother Jones, 1663 Mis-
sion St., San Francisco CA 94103; 415-558-8881.
Volume 14 Number 5 January/February 1992
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:00:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms“The book that accuses the Roman Catholic
Church of degrading women and
undermining the sexuality of believers.”
—The New York Times
Cardinal O'Connor, without reading Eunuchs for the
Kingdom of Heaven, likened it to “scrawling dirty words
about the Church on bathroom walls.” Despite the Cardinal
(or because of him), this serious critique of the Church’s
historic attitudes toward women and sexuality is receiving
widespread attention and praise:
“Remarkable... Ms. Ránk Heinemann’ '$research is
dazzling... Her message deserves to be heard?”
s a — The NeW York Times Book Review
“An eye-úpening | compe minist gřievánces with
the Catholic Churç The Los nede Times
“This may be the ı gerous statement
of the- yeäf: You $
Women, a and i. Catholic Church
UTA RANKE -HEINEMANN
January/February 1992 98 Volume 14 Number 5
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:00:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
iFaR ` I i sll
BEACON PRESS (dist. by FS&G) Craig K. Polite ($21.50 cl, -24268-9). They spent two
Beacon’s great 1991 season winds down with two years interviewing “those Black men and women who
noteworthy titles. One is the very first collection of the have achieved positions of power and influence in the
theoretical writing of renowned French lesbian femi- American workplace,” “Black baby-boomers who
' nist Monique Wittig, The Straight Mind and Other grew up possessing something no generation of
Essays ($12.95 pb, 0-8070-7917-0). These ten powerful, American Blacks has ever before experienced: a sense
radical essays are a must. of entitlement.” The result, the book’s publicity
It’s always hard to know about biographies of claims, is a ground-breaking study of “what it takes to
women by men, but I can't help being fascinated by be a successful Black living in white America.”—SMS
the sound of Margaret Wise Brown: Awakened by
the Moon by Leonard S. Marcus ($24.95 c], -7048-3).
Brown—who died suddenly in 1952, in her early for- Zil:
ties—authored such children’s classics as Goodnight
Moon while living a personal life of major mishegas ANCHOR/DOUBLEDAY
(including a “passionate yet self-destructive” relation- I'm thrilled to report that Anchor has a wonder-
ship with a woman who'd been married to John Bar- ful, long-overdue February release: An Intimation of
rymore). See what you think .... — SMS Things Distant: The Collected Fiction of Nella
Larsen, edited by Charles Larson with a foreword by
DOUBLEDAY Marita Golden ($9.50 pb, 0-385-42149-4). Larsen, who
The big winter “women’s” title from Doubleday enjoyed a brief period of mainstream fame during the
is My Enemy, My Love: Man-Hating and Ambiva- Harlem Renaissance (becoming the first African
lence in Women’s Lives by New York City journalist American woman to win a Guggenheim), disap-
Judith Levine ($22.50 cl, 0-385-41079-4), obnoxiously peared from the literary scene in 1933, after seven
described as “destined to become the first years of publishing. In the years since, her short stories
‘postfeminist’ feminist classic.” (And I thought Susan went out of print, and, appallingly, her two novels
Faludi’s Backlash—which this may well approach in were reprinted with incorrect endings. This title is a
success—had already captured the title.) Levine, who major—if shockingly belated—publishing event!
writes for New York Woman, “argues that man-hating Speaking of delayed recognition, Anchor has also
is not an individual neurosis but rather a ‘collective, announced a plan to reissue in paper “the very best”
cultural phenomenon,’ and not just a problem for of the Hispanic-American fiction originally printed in
women, or feminism, but for men, who contribute to Spanish and English by Bilingual Press. It’s not yet
its causes and suffer its results.” Look for big PR clear who'll be in the final line-up, but April will bring
support on this one. Chicana poet Ana Castillo’s fascinating, lyrical The
Another February title likely to be a controversial Mixquiahuala Letters ($8.00, -42013-7). This first
attention-getter is Children of the Dream: The Psy- novel—which won an American Book Award from
chology of Black Success by Essence editor and Ms. the Before Columbus Foundation—takes the form of
contributor Audrey Edwards and psychoanalyst letters between two close women friends, onea writer,
Volume 14 Number 5 99 January/February 1992
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:00:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
& HarperSanFrancisco
A Division of Harper CollinsPublishers
Also available from HarperCollins Canada Ltd.
one an artist, both Chicanas living in the U.S. They can positive changes to improve their lives. Here is sound
. be read in any of three sequences recommended by advice for women in relationships where they are
Castillo, one for cynics, one for conformists, one for the continuously trying to please their partners and just
“quixotic”—but, regardless of order, they constitute never seem to.
“a i grtippinyg ta.le ” of sexu al — politics and fSemalMe solidaSr- The first complete collection of the short fiction
works of Zora Neale Hurston are gathered together in
The Complete Stories ($22.50 cl, 67327, 2/92). The
GROVE WEIDENFELD stories span her entire career from 1921 when Howard
Grove’s got one great release: 1959, a novel by University’s literary magazine published “John Redd-
African American essayist/poet/playwright Thulani ing Goes to Sea” up to the stories left unpublished at
Davis ($18.95 cl, 0-8021-12307). Advance word is that
it’s a stunning book, something of a James Baldwin
and Carson McCullers mix. It’s the story of a twelve-
year-old girl who comes of age the year that Billie
Holiday dies and eight young men organize a sit-in to
inwtegorratel d he r isms al l ttorwan’ns slufncoh r comunteerd—.an d — her SMS Talking to High Monks in the Snow by Lydia
Minatoya ($20.00 cl, -68099, 2/92) is the odyssey of a
HARPERCOLLINS J tua rp ea sn e s ae n- dA m he er ri c a sn ea r w cho m fa on r c sa eu lfg -h dt i s cb oe vt ew re ye n a n t dw o u n c du el r- -
When Love Goes Wrong by Ann Jones and Susan standing of her “Asian-ness.” From her childhood in
Schechter ($20.00 cl, 00660163062, 2/92) is a practical upstate New York, where she was considered an out-
guide for women in controlling or abusive relation- sider, to Japan, China, and Nepal, where she discovers
ships. The authors offer new insights into how these herself an American struggling to understand a world
relationships develop and guide women in making that is totally Asian, Minatoya’s quest is a remarkable
January/February 1992 100 Volume 14 Number 5
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:00:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
ai Al.I ift
story of one woman's journey across the straits be- woman's struggle to understand and heal the incestu-
tween continents, cultures, and generations. ous experiences of her childhood. This psychologically
At the Sign of the Naked Waiter, a debut novel brilliant tale of a daughter's attempt to reconcile the
by Amy Herrick ($20.00 cl, -65340, 2/92), is the story love she feels for her troubled family with the pain they
that captures the magic of childhood innocence and the have caused her, is told with passion and sensitivity.
pain of adult awareness. Sarah, the heroine, is no more Linda Ellerbee’s sequel to her bestselling autobi-
surprised when the young man from across the way ography, And So It Goes wasn't a very big seller in
undresses to reveal he has wings than she is when her hardcover. It may do better in paper. In Move On
entire class seems to have gone through puberty in one ($10.00 pb, -74699, 4/92), Ellerbee talks about being a
. 24-hour period. We follow Sarah through all the mean- mother, daughter, wife, feminist, child of an alcoholic
ingful relationships and witness her own growing up. father as well as a TV newsperson. She also recounts
her own rehabilitation at the Betty Ford Clinic.
ıl And the book all us Lynda Barry fans have been
waiting for, My Perfect Life ($9.00 pb, 65053, 4/92),
is a new collection of cartoons starring Mayboone and
Challenging The Breast Cancer Legacy by Renee her sister Marlys from her Ernie Pook Comeeks series.
Royak-Schaler and Beryl Lieff Benderly ($20.00 cl, We share the heartbreak and joys of their teenage
-66258, 4/92) offers compassionate psychological in- years as they come of age in the 1960s.
sight with cutting-edge medical information for the Carol Bly’s collection of stories, The Tomcats
two million women living with the legacy and risk of Wife ($9.00 pb, -22648, 4/92) are set in the backwoods
family-related breast cancer. This is a comprehensive of Minnesota. Each story is a vibrant and heartfelt
program for healthy living for women who have con- work that display Bly’s eye and ear for her characters’
fronted both the loss of a close relative to breast cancer language and lives.
as well as their own susceptibility to breast cancer. _ Robin Lakoff, the author of Language and
This book outlines plans for self-help and self-care Woman's Place, has a new book on the politics of lan-
including early detection, diet and exercise, and skills guage. Talking Power ($12.00 pb, 0465083595, 4/92)
for dealing with medical professionals. focuses on ordinary language and the patterns and
Judith Lewis Herman, the author of Father-Daugh- assoumfptio ns baehirnd ethen usea osf .lan gu ag—e in a varSietyT
ter Incest, has a new book on the impact of trauma after
violence. Trauma and Recovery ($27.00 cl, 0465087655,
4/92) explores the psychological consequences of trau-
matic life events. This book puts individual experience Zili l
in a broader political frame and argues that psycholog-
ical trauma can only be understood in a social context. HARPERSANFRANCISCO
Herman feels that recovery can be aided by therapy and As always, HSF offers a huge number of women’s
demands that the therapist depart from a stance of titles. One must is Gertrude and Alice by Londoner
mroaratl hneeutrra lit yt handa t w o rkc asltowhlya rtoswiarsd. in t—egraStiTon Diana Souhami ($26.00 cl, 0-04-440833-1, 3/92, 45 b/ w
photos), with a great cover photo of the two. Souhami
HARPERPERENNIAL i cs a r ea f ub li g t oa d sm trir ese sr To of k lS at s’e si n s ta rn ed n g tT ho k l aa ns d, a tn ald e n i ts s . e Dsp re ac wia nlly
Thicker Than Water by Kathryn Harrison ($10.00 from letters, memoirs, and the women’s writings, the
pb, -74737, 3/92) is a first novel about a young bio will receive major publicity.
101 January/February 1992
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:00:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
The hugeand important Daughters of Africa: An
AWAKEN IHE International Anthology of Literature by Women
from the Queen of Sheba to the Present Day edited
GODDESS by Margaret Busby, author of Black Women’s Britain, is
also timed for Black History Month ($25.00, 0-04-
440849-8, 928 pp). This new title in the Pandora
WITHIN Women’s Anthology series spans centuries, conti-
nents, and genres (prose, poetry, oral history, letters,
diaries, autobiography, humor, journalism) to form a
FELICITY WOMBWVWELL collection that claims to be “representative of the
wide-ranging and richly diverse writings by women
THE of African heritage.” Among the 200 authors repre-
sented are Phillis Wheatley, Alice Walker, Angela
GODDESS Davis, Harriet Tubman, and lesser-known figures like
Pilar Lopez Gonzales of Cuba, Mwana Kuppna Mshas
CHANGES of 19th-century East Africa, and Amelia House of con-
temporary South Africa. An intro, biographical notes,
A PERSONAL GUIDE TO annotations, and bibliography are included.
WORKING WITH THE GODDESS And now for the self-help entries: Anne Wilson
Schaef’s two bestselling books have been reissued, with
no changes to the text. Co-Dependence: Misunder-
F. any woman who has ever wondered stood-Mistreated features a new intro by Schaef ($9.00
what the Goddess has to do with her life, pb, 0-06-250769-9), while Women’s Reality ($10.00 pb,
here is an empowering celebration of -250770-2) carries a new foreword by Carol Pea
ritual, myth, history, and seasonal Self-Assertion for Women: The Classic Guide
cycles. Felicity Wombwell’s fascinating That Has Helped Thousands of Women Take Charge
story becomes every woman’s way to of Their Lives with a new preface by author Pamela
profound spiritual and personal change. Butler is another reissue ($13.00 pb, 0-06-250125-9,
“A book that reweaves sacred reality for 3/92). The book features advice, sample dialogues,
and exercises, and will receive major PR support.
every changing woman.”— Caitlin Matthews
Paperback © $13.95 © ISBN 1-85274-111-2
& Thorsons Zili
A Division of HarperSanFrancisco
A Mandala Book HarperCollinsPublishers Now available in paper is Working Ourselves to
Death: The High Cost of Workaholism & the Re-
wards of Recovery by Diane Fassel, co-author of The
Addictive Organization ($9.00, -250303-0). This solid
book for women and men includes self-tests, personal
inventories, and daily work plans. Also now in paper
is Is Nothing Sacred?: The Story of a Pastor, the
Women He Sexually Abused, and the Congregation
He Nearly Destroyed by domestic violence worker
Marie Fortune ($10.00, -062684-4).
Likely to become a reissue candidate over the
years is the new Peace Prayers: Meditations, Affirma-
tions, Invocations, Poems, and Prayers for Peace
($10.00 pb, -250464-9), with offerings from Rita Mae
January/February 1992 102 Volume 14 Number 5
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:00:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
: sÍ l Jl s| l
Brown, Riane Eisler, Vicki Noble, Melody Beattie, “psychosystems.” Readers are encouraged to create
Luisah Teish, Barbara Kingsolver, Ntozake Shange, actual and “mind” gardens in this lovely book.
Adrienne Rich, June Jordan, and Helen Caldicott, Just in time for the winter blahs comes Seasonal
among (male and female) others. Royalties will be Affective Disorder: Winter Depression, Who Gets It,
donated to UNICEF, Doctors Without Borders, and What Causes It, How to Cure It by Angela Smyth
the Children’s Defense Fund, and the publisher will ($9.95 pb, 0-7225-2569-9). Smyth shows how to make
work with the Rainforest Action Network to “facilitate the most healthful use of natural and artificial light to
the planting of two trees for every one” used to print fight PMS, fatigue, depression, etc. — SMS
the book. Also available are Earth Prayers From
'Around the World: 365 Prayers, Poems, and Invoca-
tions for Honoring the Earth ($12.95 pb, -250746-x), l
and a 6-copy display with riser for Peace Prayers
($60.00, -250471-2).
The Ceremonial Circle: Practice, Ritual, and Re- A reissue of Jamaica Kincaid’s collection of short
newal for Personal and Community Healing by stories, At the Bottom of the River ($7.00 pb,
Sedonia Cahill and Joshua Halpern ($13.00 pb, - 0452267544) will be published in time for Black His-
250154-2) offers practical information about shamanic tory month. These 10 stories based on the author’s
practice and how to create ceremonies and rituals by Caribbean childhood give us the simple details and
working with “the tools and techniques of the Sa- truths of an island girl's upbringing. Kincaid shows us
cred.” Interviews with Starhawk, Anna Halprin, the world of mothers and daughters bound by love
Brooke Medicine Eagle, and Vicki Noble are included. and men and women divided by it.
The Goddess Changes: A Personal Guide to Joy by Marsha Hunt ($10.00 pb, 67536) is a story
Working with the Goddess by Englishwoman Felic- of love, conflict and hope among the women of a poor
ity Wombwell ($13.95 pb, 1-85274-111-2) “is for any Black family. Joy Bang is dead and her family gathers
woman who has ever wondered what the Goddess for her funeral. Baby Palatine who raised the Bang
has to do with her.” Wombwell, inspired by Starhawk, girls and watched them rise to fame as a Supremes-
set out on a “ten-year journey of discovery along the style singing trio recreates the life and death of her
pathways of the Goddess” and traces her awakening beautiful “God-send” child Joy. However, resent-
to the ways archetypal goddesses “fit both into the ments that Joy’s sisters and mother have repressed for
modern world and the natural cycle of the seasons.” years surface at the funeral. “(Marsha Hunt) has a
The Woman’s Comfort Book: A Self-Nurturing wealth of insight into how Black families relate to each
Guide for Restoring Balance in Your Life by screen- other, how women support and defeat each other, and
writer Jennifer Louden ($13.00, 0-06-250531-9) offers what being a girl-singer meant in the 1960s.”- The
“time-honored recipes for relaxation and inventive Women’s Review of Books.
rituals for change,” including a comfort journal, “per- Mary McGarry Morris's latest novel is an un-
sonal sanctuary,” body delights, and aroma therapy. canny portrait of a woman teetering on the edge of
I am a big fan of Creating Eden: The Garden as madness. A Dangerous Woman ($10.00 pb,
a Healing Space by therapist Marilyn Barrett ($18.00 0140167641) is the story of Martha Horgan, a different
cl, -250076-7). Barrett, who has triumphed over MS, sort of woman who stares at people, can't stop telling
Writes of the garden as a tool for self-exploration and the truth and is so prone to crushes that she will call
healing, showing how clearing, planting, growing, someone she likes dozens of times in a single night
and composting apply both to our ecosystems and and never understand why the line is busy. Her inno-
103 January/February 1992
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:00:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
cence and relentless honesty makes Martha painfully an orange fish. In “Hazel” a middle-aged woman
vulnerable to the thoughtless and deceitful ways of finally comes into her own after the death of her
the people in her world. Confused, hurt and bitter, she husband, as a sales rep for a line of kitchen products.
is propelled into a desperate and dangerous attempt Shield revels in the ordinary in these stories filled with
to gain control over her life. compassion and wit.
When A Woman’s Body Says No To Sex by Linda
Valins ($10.00 pb, -49082, 2/92) is a guide to under-
Zil standing and overcoming vaginismus, the involun-
tary spasm of the vaginal muscles that prevents
Riding In Cars with Boys by Beverly Donofrio penetration. This problem has received so little atten-
($9.00 pb, -56291) is the story of a working class teen- tion that women who suffer from it don’t even know
age mother who comes to feel that her burden is a its name. Writing from her interviews with women
blessing. From a wild youth spent riding around town who have suffered from it and professionals who treat
in cars, drinking and smoking and rebelling against the condition as well as from her own experience,
authority, especially her policeman father, Donofrio Valins offers a practical and compassionate guide to-
went from marriage to divorce and finally ended up ward understanding vaginismus and its causes.— ST
a at r m a n a n e dli t e a cN he iw ld E in ng l ta hn ed ou tn hi ev re .r s Dit oy n o fw ri it oh wb ro io tk es s i wn i t hone DUTTON (PENGUIN)
heart and humor about being a “bad girl”. The biggies here are new novels from Dorothy
A revised edition of Women and Children Last Allison and Pat Barker! Actually, Allison’s Bastard
by Ruth Sidel ($8.95 pb, -46709) is a classic exposé of Out of Carolina ($20.00, 0-525-93425-1, 4/92) is her
the feminization of poverty in America. In this revised first full-length novel (the wonderful], Lambda Award-
edition Sidel includes new statistics on poverty and winning Trash having been a short story collection). Its
explores the increasing gap between rich and poor heroine Bone Boatwright, daughter of a Southern fam-
and the rise in drug use. ily that refuses “to be shamed by the label ‘poor white
Moon Over Minneapolis by Fay Weldon ($9.00 trash,” struggles with her fierce attachment to the
pb, -45427) is a new collection of short stories about women of her mother’s clan, her deep ambivalence
the choices all people must make. In “Subject to Diary” about her stepfather, and her passionate longing to
Oriole Green, successful and forty, waits in a clinic for leave her tiny Carolina town.
an abortion. She doesn’t have time for a baby, even Barker's Regeneration ($20.00, -93427-8, 4/92)
though she feels this is her last chance to have one. In draws on two historic figures, a British neurologist
“Pumpkin Pie” Antoinette slaves over someone else's who treated soldiers driven mad by their service in
hot stove while her family spends Thanksgiving with- World War I, and pacifist poet Siegfried Sassoon,
out her. whose protests against that war led the British Army
The Kneeling Bus by Beverly Coyle ($9.00 pb, to place him in a mental hospital. Acclaimed in Britain,
-48981) chronicles the coming-of-age of Carrie Willis, the novel imagines the friendship between them, viv-
a minister’s daughter, in Florida in the 1950s. Coyle’s idly evoking “an era of destruction, despair, and
landscape is the quiet rural and relentlessly Methodist death” and “overwhelmed men attempting to come to
social order of 1953 along old U.S. Highway 1 where terms with the intolerable outrage of a futile war.”
the wealthy orchid growers are neighbors to a family
to hf e im r u bc ak t h f tuar bm . e Mrs o v w inh go , hst ii ll al r iok ue se p a na dn oil fl t-f enat e td r a a gl il cig , a t to hr i s in Zl
novel introduces a new voice to many readers.
Carol Shields’ new collection of stories The Or- February will bring a “must” children’s title,
ange Fish ($9.00 pb, -52822) exhibits her ability to find Rosa Parks: Mother to a Movement by Rosa Parks
both meaning and mystery in the chaos of ordinary with Jim Haskins ($16.00 cl, 0-8037-0673-1). The first
life. In thetitle story an unhappily married couple find autobiographical book by Parks, it movingly tells not
harmony in their purchase of a limited edition print of only of the bus boycott she sparked but also of her
January/February 1992 104 Volume 14 Number 5
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:00:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
ril. " Eln..
many years of courageous activism before and after Some stores will also want to stock the magical
that revolutionary ride. novel I Saw the Sky Catch Fire by T. Obinkaram
Lorraine Hansberry, intriguingly, returns to print Echewa, a noted (male) Nigerian writer who has lived
in A Raisin in the Sun: The Unfilmed Original in the U.S. for many years ($20.00 cl, -93398-0). It
Screenplay edited with an introduction by Robert begins with the spellbinding tales told its protagonist
Nemiroff, with essays by Henry Louis Gates and by his grandmother Nne-nne on the eve of his depar-
Spike Lee ($8.00 pb, 0-452-26776-5, 3/92). Hansberry ture for the U.S.—stories of the “Women’s War” in
apparently added considerable new material to her which she was a key figure years before. By the time
play in adapting it for the screen—material that was he returns to Nigeria, she is dead, and “he is torn
tut from the movie and has only now become publicly between Africa and America, between his years spent
l; a vailable. abroad and Nne-nne’s legacy of whole-hearted com-
mwitmenot tmo Ndoem, n the. ”univ er sal— comm un itSy oMf S
n VIKING/PENGUIN
Turning to the more conventional, kinda sorta, The star of Viking’s winter list is Fay Weldon,
we have The Moon Is Broken: A Mother’s True Story with her latest novel Life Force ($21.00 cl, 0-670-
by therapist/author Eleanor Craig ($19.00 cl, -93401- 84146-3). Allow me to quote the PR: “Into the lives of
4). Craig recounts her daughter’s spiral, at 22, from four married female friends returns Leslie Beck, Leslie
seeming health and happiness into suicidal depres- of the magnificent cock, Leslie the Life Force.” The
sion, anorexia, drug addiction, and, finally, AIDS. It resulting tale “is about marriage and adultery and the
looks riveting. fact that sometimes one cannot survive without the
Still more conventional, yet of possible interest, other.”
is Men: A Translation for Women by Denver psychi- Spring's blockbuster will be lesbian historian
atrist Joan Shapiro ($18.00 cl, -93391-3). Likely to be a Blanche Wiesen Cook’s Eleanor Roosevelt: A Life, the
mainstream hit, it notes that boys are taught to iden- first volume of an ongoing study ($30.00 c], -80486-x,
tify the male role with absence and unavailability and 4/92). Eight years in the making, it’s the bio we've all
to view emotion as a Weakness, and “shows how these been waiting for—and, wonder of wonders, it will
deep-rooted perceptions result in dozens of situations receive major PR support!
that women find incomprehensible and frustrating,
from men’s unwillingness to open up, to their preoc-
cupation with sports and their tendency to quantify Zil
everything.”
In a similar vein is You Can't Hurry Love: An Self-help volumes are the other key winter re-
Intimate Look at First Marriages After 40 by Laurie leases. Ordinary Women, Extraordinary Lives: How
Levin and Laura Golden Bellotti, who edited Women to Overcome Adversity and Achieve Positive
Who Love Too Much ($20.00 cl, -93402-2). Designed to Change in Your Life by Marcia Chellis (who co-au-
offset the notorious poll that claimed women over 40 thored Joan Kennedy’s autobiography) tells the sto-
would find it nearly impossible to find a guy, the book ries of eight women who “did more than recover: they
offers “an intimate, comprehensive look at . .….the transcended their dire circumstances to become the
misconceptions, difficulties, and advantages that ma- people they had always wanted to be” ($20.00 c|,
ture [heterosexual] couples face.” -83757-1). It also introduces Chellis’s 5-step plan for
Volume 14 Number 5 105 January/February 1992
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:00:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
personal empowerment. When a Woman’s Body Says beth Dewberry Vaughn’s first novel, Many Things
No to Sex: Understanding and Overcoming Vaginis- Have Happened Since He Died, is narrated by a
mus by Linda Valins with a foreword by Susie Orbach naive young woman living in Birmingham, Alabama.
($10.00 pb, 0-14-014908-2) is a practical guide to un- She must come to terms with her powerful legacy of
derstanding and healing from the involuntary spasm religious upbringing and her new, explosive marriage.
of the vaginal muscles that makes intercourse and This novel is a journey into a women’s terrible vulner-
internal gynecological exams intolerable. Londoner ability in her own culture.
Valins founded the first support group for women Sandra Cisneros’ wonderful short story collec-
tion Women Hollering Creek ($10.00 pb, -38568,
3/92) invites us into the souls of characters as vibrant
and varied as life on both sides of the Mexican border:
From a young girl revealing secrets only an eleven-
year-old can know to a witch, to the women whose
I'm not clear on its pub date, but you may well stories offer tales of discovery full of infinite and inti-
want to seek out Willa Cather: Stories, Poems, and mate wisdom. Cisneros is an author I hope we hear
Other Writings by leading Cather biographer Sharon more from.
O'Brien ($35.00 cl, 0-940450-71-2, 1000 pp), a Library By Grand Central Station I Sat Down and Wept
of America release with co-op advertising and display by Elizabeth Smart ($10.00 pb, -38045, 3/92) is a little-
poster available. Along with her stories and novellas it known novel first published in England in 1945. It
features Cather writing about her own work. — SMS recounts the author's affair with a married man in
intensely vivid language. Both Angela Carter and
RANDOM HOUSE Brigid Brophy call it a masterpiece. Also included in
In Anita Brookner’s latest novel, A Closed Eye this edition is her short novel An Assumption of the
($21.00 c], 0679404473, 3/92), we meet Harriet, a Rogues and Rascals, which may be read as a sequel.
young woman who has settled into a marriage of Black Ice is the moving autobiography of Lorene
convenience and a comfortable, protected life. The Cary ($10.00 pb, -37456, 2/92), a bright, ambitious Af-
handsome and reckless husband of a friend makes rican-American teenager from Philadelphia, who re-
Harriet uncomfortably aware of the compromises she ceived a scholarship to the formerly all-white, all-male
has made. Brookner evokes loss, regret and awaken- St. Paul's School in New Hampshire. Cary was deter-
ing with wit and wisdom about the relationship be- mined to succeed and not sell out. How she did this
tween men and women. makes a painful and ultimately exhilarating portrait of
Life Itself by Roger Rosenblatt ($20.00 c|, a woman's adolescence. This should become a classic
0394582446, 3/92) looks at why abortion has polarized memoir of growing up in America in the 1970s. — ST
Americans and what we can do about it. He chal-
lenges both “pro-life” and pro-choice sides. I can't say
if he is fair or what side he is on but he calls for an end Zil:
to moral grandstanding and thinks we will have to
live with the ambivalence many feel toward abortion. CROWN BOOKS (RANDOM HOUSE)
The Virgin in The Garden ($12.00 pb, The biggest news here, probably, is Yellow Silk:
06797338290, 2/92), an earlier novel by A.S. Byatt the Erotic Arts and Letters edited by Lily Pond and Rich-
author of Possession, evokes the same mystery and ard Russo ($10.00 pb, 0-517-58736x, 23 b/w draw-
romance as her current bestseller. In The Virgin in ings). Drawn from the magazine of the same name, the
The Garden, Byatt interweaves an Elizabethan drama book features erotic fiction, poetry, and artwork for
and contemporary comedy in the tumultuous events women and men, with such authors as Marilyn
of a brilliant and eccentric family fatefully divided. Iris Hacker, Marge Piercy, and Ntozake Shange.
Murdoch called this book “large, complex, ambitious, January will also bring republication of Myra
humming with energy and ideas.” Friedman’s controversial bio Janis Joplin: Buried
A new voice in Southern American fiction, Eliza- Alive ($12.00 pb, -586509). This edition features “revi-
January/February 1992 106 Volume 14 Number 5
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:00:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Z
S WITH ATTITUDE. F
“Funny, scary, rudely honest
stuff.”—Matt Groening
’ “These twisted sisters open up their Js=
rows of Pandora's boxes and let all §
their demons out of the inkwell.” |
—Art Spiegelman
EB SISTE
A COLLECTION OF BAD GIRL ART BY 14 WOMEN UNDERGROUND CARTOONISTS
Edited by Diane Noomin © For the best in paperbacks, look for the PENGUIN
sions and corrections,” but likely still includes a (dis- Harem Through the Islamic Revolution by Sattareh
approving) look at her relationships with women, as Farman Farmaian ($22.00 cl, -586975). Raised about
well as with drugs, drink, music, and men. An intro sixty years ago in an upper-class Persian family,
assessing Joplin’s importance to contemporary Farmaian broke taboos by travelling to the U.S. to
women singers and a “where are they now?” study, then returning to her country to found a school
afterword have also been added. of social work dedicated to eliminating poverty. Ar-
Speaking of self-help, February will also bring rested soon after the collapse of the Shah's regime for
Enabling Romance: A Guide to Love, Sex and Rela- “counter-revolutionary attitudes,” she fled to the U.S.,
tionships for the Disabled (and the People Who Care and is now a social worker in L.A. — SMS
About Them) by Erica Klein and Ken Kroll ($22.50 c|,
-575329). Klein, who's ablebodied, is married to Kroll, KNOPF (RANDOM HOUSE)
who's disabled in a way not specified in the book's Knopf has a number of interesting mainstream-y
publicity. Also not clear from the PR is the extent to releases upcoming, including a new novel from Mona
which lesbian/ gay sexuality is considered in the book, Simpson, The Lost Father ($22.00 cl, 0-394-58916-5). It
which features much first-person material; individual revives the characters in her big sleeper hit Anywhere
chapters on spinal cord injuries, MS, blindness, ampu- But Here: the girl who shuttled between her mother
tation, and other disabilities; and lists of independent and grandmother in the earlier book is now in medical
living groups, dating services, and mail-order maga- schoo], leading a “normal enough” life. That changes,
zines and videos. however, when she sets out in obsessive pursuit of her
It’s also tough to get an advance feel for Daughter unknown father, “a protector in a world with too
of Persia: A Woman’s Journey from Her Father's many absences.”
Volume 14 Number 5 107 January/February 1992
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:00:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Another promising fiction entry is Dreaming in parents, her “troubled schooling” in the ‘60s, and her
Cuban, a first novel by Havana-born Cristina Garcia marriage very young to a pilot whose Vietnam service
($20.00 cl, 0-679-40883-5, 3/92). The story of three forced her to raise two children alone. Her portrait of
generations of women in a Cuban family, it traces this passage from girlhood to adulthood “subtly re-
them from Havana to Brooklyn and back to Havana vises our sense of the changes” in U.S. life since World
as they move in and out of love, witchcraft, and polit- War II.
March will bring a literary bio from my college
classmate Ann Hulbert, an editor at The New Republic:
The Interior Castle: The Art and Life of Jean Stafford
($25.00 cl, -55704-2). Novelist/storywriter Stafford
struggled with alcohol, depression, and difficult mar-
Be sure also to take a look at Sleepwalker in a riages (to Robert Lowell, among others) throughout
Fog, the second short story collection from Muscovite her life, while winning a Pulitzer and enjoying re-
Tatyana Tolstaya, whom Joseph Brodsky has called nown for her wit and brilliance.
“the most original, tactile, luminous voice in Russian Knopf deepens its commitment to poetry with the
prose today” ($19.00 c], 0-394-58731-6). first paperback edition of May Swenson’s (marvelous)
From Soviet dissident heroine Elena Bonner last book, In Other Words ($12.00, 0-679-73356-6), and
comes a moving chi!ldhood memoir, Mothers and the paiperback of the 1991 Pulitzer Prize poetry winner
Daughters ($22.00 cl, -58761-8). It describes her privi- Near Changes by Mona Van Duyn ($10.00, -72909-7).
leged childhood, her family’s fall from grace (her Van Duyn has also received the National Book Award
friends, neighbors, ,and, finally, paren ts disappeared and, Bollingen Prize. — SMS
into the Gulag), and her complex relationships with
her m Po ot eh te r D ea bin od r a hb e l Do iv ge gd e s g r oa fn fd em rso t ah e wr. el l-wrought mem` - PAN T PaH ntE hO eoN n/ /SS cC hoH ckO eC ni’K s E wN in t e( rR A lisN t D fO eaM tu) res some
oir in Fugitive Spring ($20.00 c], -57722-1). It evokes very appealing titles. Aliki Barnstone and her father
her C MidwestEern chUildhood w ith DutcTh immi gran t t N Willis Barn stonTe have reiss ued Ttheir Bo ok o f Waomen
SUBSCRIBE!
; Check all the boxes you can and mail to FBN, I am/We are: [1 Owned and operated by ;
! PO Box 882554, San Francisco, CA 94188 [H Reader/Bibliophile women i
: 1 [ H NWoammen'es S tu[dHies TLeaicbherr a [Hr i Caon-ow naedn adnd rmun e bny w o!men !
: : B u sinAess d Ndamer He sWsrit er [[1H Ow n edB aond o opkerasteed l blye mren i!
: E;l Pu :bisOher tBoohkst orees r— iW e alsio sto ck:: i
!:: C[PIi t h yc/ oirS natfa eits ew / 0 Zo imp [a 1Hn P GFeer ami yoid ni cim$salt e a nn o'L sne s- bftiia icn tt. li oe Bnso o k:is :
!:' [ ]' : O n e‚ Y eaPr-Cu $b60l. i h Cshhecek r ei nsc lol seadnd . B o okLsr teorfest: e iPsubtln i/shp ,o Tl i Gtei nceraal'l in t'erest :
!: o D[ DOn]e Y+ea r $ - 9 $ 6 5f. oBirll u sC. aPneriaoddiciaalsn — lÍps oysoutra gfoecu.s p[rHim a riFlye: m R iNnewis tJe m [etUph y SCk h !i !
: [] + $19 for other international postage. a Lesbian [J other !
:! [] G spaecyia l T[rJia l OBfafecrk! 1 /2i s syeuare s - $a30v. a Ei l aLebsbliean &—:G ay $ å6 i: :!
[H Sample copy - $6. oD Alternative/political each or $30/year. Check
[] 8.5% Sales Tax, California residents [H General independent enclosed.
Volume 14 Number 5
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:00:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
: Å J
Poets from Antiquity to Now, originally published in acquired vital intelligence for the Allies by leaving her
1980 ($18.00 pb, 0-8052-0997-2, 832 pp). This revised spouse and children periodically to become involved
edition adds more poets of color and progressive pol- with a high-ranking enemy official, then “turn” him.
itics; in it, new additions like Phillis Wheatley, Lucille Susan Neiman’s Slow Fire: Jewish Notes from
Clifton, Joy Harjo, and Carolyn Forche join writers Berlin looks absolutely fascinating ($22.00 cl, 0-8052-
from fifty cultures spanning four thousand years. 4112-4, 3/92). Neiman went to Berlin in 1982 on a
February will also bring Nina Simone's autobiog- fellowship, and was shocked and intrigued both by
raphy! I Put a Spell on You, co-authored by Stephen Germans’ reactions to her as a Jewish woman and by
Cleary ($22.00 cl, 0-679-4106s8-6), is Simone’s moving, their collective efforts to confront and “work through”
amazingly candid account of her tempestuous life, their past under Hitler. She loved Berlin, but, under-
which has included not only international musical standably, felt deeply ambivalent about Berliners.
stardom but also disastrous relationships, bank-
ruptcy, arrests, and a breakdown.
Fans of Kathy Acker’s cutting-edge fiction will be Zil
delighted to learn of the paperback release of her
novel In Memoriam to Identity ($12.00, 0-679-73842- I'm also much drawn to Migrations to Solitude
8). It will be joined in February by Portrait of an Eye by Sue Halpern ($20.00 cl, 0-679-40777-4), which ex-
($22.00 c], -40619-0), a collection of Acker’s first three plores “those moments, elusive and ephemeral, when
novels. Originally self-published, they are 1973's The we share not our privacy but our sense that no matter
Childlike Life of the Black Tarantula (the tale of a Missis- how we long to cross the distance between us, we are
sippi murderess who falls in love with a famous law- alone.” Halpern examines settings Where privacy is
yer), I Dreamt I Was a Nymphomaniac: Imagining (its absent (in a life of homelessness, in an intensive-care
heroine “takes a man capable of deceiving both sexes unit), where its presence is fulfilling (in a monastery),
as her lover”), and The Adult Life of Toulouse-Lautrec, in and where it is a deprivation (in solitary confinement,
which the painter is a woman starved for love and sex. in grief after the loss of an only child). — SMS
Vintage Acker ..….….
Also being hailed as a major new voice in contem- SHAMBHALA (RANDOM HOUSE)
porary U.S. fiction is Rebecca Stowe, whose Not the Those of you with very big psych sections may
End of the World ($18.00 cl, -40945-9) is a “painful and want to consider The Golden Ass of Apuleius: The
hilarious” first-person novel about a bright, troubled Liberation of the Feminine in Man by Marie-Louise
girl that “captures the angst-ridden childhood of many von Franz, a noted analyst who co-founded the Jung
a woman of the Baby Boom generation.” Advance Institute ($13.00 pb, 0-87773-523-9). It translates and
excerpts are, indeed, hilarious, in a Salinger-ish way. examines the classical Roman tale of a young man
who finds spiritual renewal when initiated into the
Isis mystery teachings. — SMS
Zil
ST. MARTIN’S
Mary Lovell, biographer of Beryl Markham and Admirers of Florence King’s acerbic wit will wel-
Amelia Earhart, returns to print with Cast No come her With Charity Toward None: A Fond Look
Shadow: The Life of Betty Pack, the American Spy at Misanthropy ($17.95 cl, 0-312-07174-4), an “inspi-
Who Changed the Course of World War II ($22.00 c], rational handbook” for “Americans grown tired of
0-394-57556-3). Pack, the wife of a British diplomat, ‘goo-goo humanitarianism and sensitivity that never
109 January/February 1992
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:00:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
sleeps.” Its targets include Oprah guests, “lovable her motherline, she finds the narrative that weaves her
pseudo-curmudgeons,” and the fact that “hostile situ- life together; describing various women’s “journeys to
ations barely get started before somebody pops up their roots,” she notes the power of recognizing the
and announces, ‘the healing has begun.” deep influence of our mothers and grandmothers. She
also examines historic attitudes toward motherhood
and the “shame and humiliation that underlie
Zili women’s sense of authority.”
February will bring a revised edition of The
An absolute must is Render Me My Song: Afri- Nontoxic Home & Office: Protecting Yourself and
can-American Women Writers from Slavery to the Your Family from Everyday Toxics and Health Haz-
Present by Harlem-born Sandi Russell, a jazz ards by Debra Lynn Dadd ($10.95 pb, 676-7). The
singer/journalist ($9.95 pb, 07074-8). It’s a history— previous edition sold over 35,000 copies. :
not an anthology—that presents the lives of Phillis Those of you with men’s movement sections will
Wheatley, Sojourner Truth, Zora Neale Hurston, Toni want to know about Men & Friendship by Stuart
Morrison, Gloria Naylor, Alice Walker, Ntozake Miller, former director of Esalen ($9.95 pb, -685-6). It
Shange, and others, using interview material to por- explores “the loss of fraternal bonds and male com-
tray many of the contemporary authors. panionship,” helping men “recapture the male com-
The little Consumer Reports book designed to munity of close companions left behind in
educate teens about AIDS returns in an updated edi- childhood” and helping women “understand the
tion, AIDS: Trading Fears for Facts, A Guide for men they love.”
Young People by Karen Hein, Theresa Foy Di- Ditto A Circle of Men: The Original Manual for
Geronimo, and the editors of Consumer Reports Men’s Support Groups by Bill Kauth, co-founder of
Books ($4.95 pb, 0-89043-481-6). While not the ideal The New Warrior Training ($14.95 pb, 0-312-07247-3).
gay- and sex-positive handbook, it offers solid info Billed as “the most empowering practical book” of the
about the disease, testing, lower-risk behavior, and men’s movement, it provides a wealth of specifics on
coping with a diagnosis, and it provides an extensive organizing and sustaining men’s groups. — SMS
resource list that includes special services for teens.
Hard on Nancy Friday’s heels comes Sexual Plea- SIMON & SCHUSTER
sures: What Women Really Want, What Women Re- Again, the big news here is the reissue of Kate
ally Need by Susan Crain Bakos, a Cosmo and Glamour Millett’s wrenching tale of obsessive love Sita, with a
writer ($18.95 cl, 0-312-06928-6). Based on 870 inter- new introduction by the author ($11.00 pb, 0-671-
views With U.S. women (almost all heterosexual), it 73169-6), and the April release of a new Marilyn
“shows women how to improve relationships and French title, The War Against Women ($19.50 c|,
claim lasting pleasure” with “methods tailored to spe- -66157-4). French’s typically exhaustive research
cific personality types and experiences.” Issues cov- documents the economic, political, and physical
ered include “sex addiction” (Bakos’s quotes) and suppression and abuse of women that is an intrinsic
healing from sexual abuse. part of virtually every nation’s culture, values, and
“Learned Helplessness” expert Nicky Marone ideolog y.
weighs in with Women & Risk: How to Master Your
Fears and Do What You Never Thought You Could
Do ($19.95 cl, 07115-9). With a diagnostic quiz, exer- l
cises, and anecdotes, it “gives women the confidence
they need to learn to take a risk.” In the spirit of Anne Rice and A.S. Byatt comes
Tarcher has a strong new title in Stories from the The Torching by Marcy Heidish, author of A Woman
Motherline: Reclaiming the Mother-Daughter Bond, Called Moses ($19.00 cl, -74375-9, 3/92); as she re-
Finding Our Feminine Souls by therapist Naomi searches a witch put to death in 1738, the novels
Ruth Lowinsky ($19.95 cl, 0-87477-680-5, 3/92). protagonist “conjures up far more than she under-
Lowinsky’s basic point is that when a woman finds stands,” including “all-consuming flames.” — SMSO
January/February 1992 110 Volume 14 Number 5
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:00:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Canadian Books, continued from page 72
Down to the Golden Chersonese: Victorian
Lady Travellers by Nancy Holmes ($9.95, 1-55039-
005-8) is an interesting collection of poetry from Sono
Nis Press (1745 Blanshard St, Victoria, BC V8W 2J8, .... earen anesnen. 36
604-382-1024; fax 604-382-1575). Holmes has taken a sere
book about nineteenth century Victorian women trav-
ellers, chosen some of the- middle-age spinsters in
whom she was interested and created a book of poetry
about their travels and about their thoughts with a
twentieth century voice.
Coming to a close, I annotate the latest fall offer-
i nn eg ws bf or oo km inPu l tp h eP r te is ns y i n (4 " V a xn c 3o "u )v e br o. o kT h se ey r i ei sn c l cu ad lle e d a The e.e. ..... 28
Little Grey Flannel Book: Quotations on Men ($3.95 «arees enenenaa... 32
US; $4.95 Can, 0-88978-239-3). Others in the series
include The Little Pink Book: Quotations on Women (0-
88978-226-1) and The Little Green Book: Quotations on
the Environment (0-88978-225-3).
Also new from Pulp in the non-fiction line is Don’t
Say No Just Let Go: Living With Teenagers—The
Power Parenting Solution ($7.95 US; $8.95 Can, 0-88978-
242-3). The author, Maria Von Couver is actually six
people who have had the responsibility for bringing up
a total of eleven teenagers and who have learned “that
pleading, crying, threatening and understanding are
equally ineffective in dealing with teens.” She has devel-
oped the Power Parenting methods, which include areas
such as “Co-Teening No More!, Good for Me, Good for Feminist Dissent, continued from page 46
You: Teensactional Analysis” and “The One Minute one big happy family and it might be a significant
Mother.” The book is an amusing spoof on self-help service to the profession to illuminate some of the
techniques while at the same time using its models to tensiòns rather than to put a happy face on them.
provide funny and useful insights into living with teen- One can speculate that there is also the traditional
agers. I look forward to a sequel response from the eleven sense of malaise at the presence of “all those women”
teenagers involved. Inland, Bookslinger, UTP in Canada. among many professional leaders both men and
women. Some writers have mentioned the “badge of
shame” mentality.
I am willing to send copies of my unpublished
letter to anyone interested. Suzanne Hildenbrand,
SUNY Buffalo, School of Information and Library
I'd like to end by giving special thanks for the Studies, 381 Baldy Hall, Buffalo NY 14260.
ongoing help in compiling this information that I (Dee Garrison. Apostles of Culture: The Public Li-
receive from Literary Press Group sales rep extraordi- bFrarriane ean d APmerriecans sSo,ci et y1, 198776-9192.0 . N:ew York:
naire Angela Hryniuk and Stanton & MacDougall
owner Kate Walker, both of whom suffer last-minute Carol Hole. “Click! The Feminization of the Pub-
phone calls from me with obscure distribution ques- lic Library: Policies and Attitudes Make Men the Great
tions every couple of months the weekend before the Unbserveed.” rAmer ica n L1ibra9ries, 9 21: 0 1076.-1)079 , D eceOm-
column is due in San Francisco. O
111 January/February 1992
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:00:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFePminRist EBookSstoSre ENewNs i
POSITIONS WANTED CLASSIFIED ADS
Experienced editor offers editing, copy editing, FBN Classified Ads $2 per 25 characters. 25% dis-
proofreading and writing services. Reasonable count for 3+ insertions paid at one time. Payment
rates. References available. Contact Ann at FBN, must accompany ad. No charge for “Help Wanted”
415-626-1556. listings up to 100 words. Send to FBN, PO Box
882554, San Francisco, CA 94188. O
INFORMATION
Art Books, continued from page 74
Gay Domestic Violence University Study, 303-238- resurgence of feminism. Instead, the strains of eco-
4347. nomic depression reinforced the containment of fem-
inism that had begun after the winning of suffrage. As
FOR SALE men lost their jobs, wage-earning women...” As the #1
international debtor nation (ten years ago this was not
Very special alternative bookstore for sale; feminist, true) and as the recession continues to ricochet down-
progressive, lesbian/ gay. Loyal clientele, top D&B rat- ward, this book may have more contemporary rele-
ing. Located on beautiful Maine coast. Owner selling vance than we might wish. The book is scholarly
for health reasons. $35,000 plus inventory. 207-596- without being distant, and contains a richness of pho-
0040 days; 594-4002 evenings. tographs and reproductions of paintings and sculp-
ture. Smithsonian Institution Press, $24 pb, 0-
Gaia's Guide-1991/92. Worldwide Lesbian Guide 87474-721-X; $60 c], 0-87474-720-1.
Book. 16th edition. Mail order: $16.00 — (inc. p. & p.)
from: Lambda Rising, 1625 Connecticut Avenue NW,
Washington DC 20009. 800-621-6969. Gaia's Guide-
1991/92 is also on sale in every Feminist-Lesbian-
Gay-Alternative Bookstore in the world. In-store
Price: $12.95.
As many of you know, I have a fondness for books
Award-Winning Lesbian Drama! Catalog of les- about traditional crafts and women’s cultural labor. The
bian-feminist plays, monologs, musicals, one-acts, $2. Song of the Loom: New Traditions in Navajo Weaving
Carolyn Gage, PO Box 718, Ashland OR 97520. by Frederick J. Dockstader is a particularly fine example,
focusing on work by a group of women who have
Crone Chronicles. Subscribe to this quarterly grassroots specialized in sand painting designs. These designs, re-
networking journal, an open forum for exploring the ligious in nature, have only recently been used in weav-
range and depth of what the Crone invokes in us as an ings. These are very beautiful textiles, meant to be used
archetype. $12/ year; $20/2 yrs; additional gift subscrip- as wall hangings. Photographs of most of the weavers
tion $9/yr. Free decal. Crones, Box 81, Kelly WY 83011. a sr oe n i n c Hlu id lle sd a Plo rn eg s s w , it h $ 3 b 5i o g cr la ,p h i 0c -al 9 3in 3f 9o 2r 0m -a 8ti 7o -n 3. . H u Od-
January/February 1992 112 Volume 14 Number 5
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:00:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsPank youl Gracias! Merci!
Wemontyme Distribution Company
dupporters for a great 1991.
We wish you, owr Priends,
a frooperous and satisfying 1992.
Pair Shalom Vrede Peace
from Jan, Gwen and all
the womyn at Womontyme.
P.O. Box 50145 Long Beach, CA 90815-6145
Toll Free 800-247-8903
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:00:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Woman
beneath the Skin
A Doctor's Patients in
Eighteenth-Century Germany
Barbara Duden
Translated by Thomas Dunlap
In this provocative study, Barbara Duden
delves into the records of an eighteenth-
century German physician who meticulously
documented the medical histories of
eighteen hundred women of all ages and
p h"T r eroh v e i cd ov e mo i pdce eys ln l i a no m gf ic tJ ha a ec n sk d i' ss . "h f ao —nr d Mm s- ie ror n a b ep p la lrt aoie on ft s o.. f. T a ab g lha inc eisk no sg eur usno , nu p d n a a erd n ras d sl, tl e a tl no e rf dd et i a ne tn r gme c ei oo nn fr t d s t t h ho re ef ei vr e fs ay eo l msmw an p a l t e o w d m beo oesr dp,d yl s yd. .i- " c jB uhy s a te l ix cp eo vs ,ai n l g u M ea s an d c K uc io n nrr d ne ec ot ri nn lyg i ct nh age u sp ea nt sr a ia t r ai- o nn a el ais rm th q a un ad ke
a i“ n s sR w ra ee lri es s v e a nis t t o tq f ofu e e ar nss . y.t . o i no C eon m gs rp ae pla l pis n li g n . g.f … . a t whs iic ts h i n b toa hot eking as the t“ hD iu sd e sn u b msp ele rn gd edid ly an ds u c sec ce red ets win o r r ldec r oe fa t i fn eg male o i rnf t e e at llh dei cn .t ”k u i an l g — la t n Gh da lst c o a rpr e ie .a a r Tr a h Sn is tg e e s b i o noev k ae m r iy s ap a r ‘mt u o sf t our
c ace hn it er va el c ch onal nle en ctg ie o n o s f t or e l oa tt hio en rs sh i wps i: t h h ouow t lt oo s- c to hn es c pio hu ys sn ie cs ias n, a in nd m th aie n t a am inb inig gu o iu t.s ” role of $12.95 paper
i $n 1g o 5n e cs le ol tf — h.” New York Times Book Review — $R S2o 4y e. 9 P d5ar t ue cr l, o T th h te iW oe l °lc nome Institute, London DJ ebu ors at hi c Le ha on ded Gender
9 .9 c s . R
Studies in Reading and Culture “The definitive treatment of the American
“Coming to Writing” J I e sn ea x ln pt vhe li eo s s r M b e o wsli d l l i l y te h h r op io w nlem i wc ia dl o e mw aso er k n, a n J e dan x e p t eM rri al il de er in tc ioe n st h te hm a- t l p l $e eeg a 1r ra t n 6l a ei .n ds 9y i 5n s fgt re o m — pt mo's aB pi g r ms ee et a onr rd nu d i tg e n hrg g. ll . ye … t. T ht Rho i es e v r d ie v ee o wa ll i u s m ow fm ei .t u "h Lc ah wi s s t u o Be o s ob ke s
simultaneously include and exclude them.
Ranging from eighteenth century to the
present, she emphasizes the chilling ways Real Rape
in which cultural exclusions and degrada- Susan Estrich
tions of women are internalized and rep- "A powerful indictment of the sexism, double
licated by complicitous victims. standards and institutionalized distrust of
Convergences
$22.95 cloth women that lie behind the legal system's
refusal to treat 'simple' rape...as a real
crime." —San Francisco Examiner
$7.95 paper
Kilp g a A esin
Of Hélène Cixous's many and diverse Nicole lLoraux
w Enr git li in shg .s , T f he isw c h ola lv ee c t ib onee n p rt er sa en ns tl sa t e sd ix in est so ays “ inA Gv riv eeid k d te rm ago en ds yt .r ..a Et xio cn it i no gf ah no dw ew ruo dm ite en .. . die a nrmvaverrds
by one of France's most remarkable con- [Loraux demonstrates] graceful scholar- Press "Y
temporary authors. Here she explores the ship and sound judgment.”
problematics of a “feminine” mode of —JNew York Times Book Review 79 Garden St., Cambridge, MA 02138
writing. $24.95 cloth $8.95 paper (617) 495-2480
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 18:00:50 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms