Feminist
Bookstore
News BsIvilzhn
Lievens: The John C. Johnson Collection of Philadelphia
_ The University Press Issue
Femina Serial Am F32978
November /December 1989 | Y/2 L/z4 Volume 12 Number 4
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:23 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsA |L sTEOIRY S bSeA | d a man ed0!
JEA E Jeanne Cordova, author of "My Immaculate
Heart" in LESBIAN NUNS: Breaking Silence,
takes us once again behind the forbidden
convent door for a revealing look at the joys
and sorrows of Sisterhood. This compelling
and sometimes shocking autobiography
chronicles Cordova's early life as a naive
young woman from the Republican suburbs
of Southern California. Sent to the ghettos of
Skid Row and Watts by Mother Superior,
Cordova runs headlong into the chaos of .
inner city life, the social unrest of the 60's,
disillusionment with religious life and her
own burgeoning sexuality.
"Congratulations to the Catholic Church for
raising so many lesbians over the years."
— Del Martin & Phyllis Lyon,
Authors, Lesbian Woman
"Cordova gives us back our own 60's,
even our youth; pure, honest, confusing
and full of hope."
— Kate Millett
Author, Sexual Politics
KICKING THE HABIT
begins where LESBIAN NUNS: BREAKING
SILENCE left offi
Jeanne Cordova is one of the founders of the West Coast gay and lesbian
movement. She organized the first National Lesbian Conference (1973),
founded and published 7HE LESBIAN TIDE(1971-80), and was Human
Rights Editor for the L.A. FREE PRESS. Cordova is currently the publisher
of THE NEW AGE TELEPHONE BOOK and THE COMMUNITY YELLOW
PAGES: Survival Guide to Gay & Lesbian Southern California.She is also
the author of SEXISM: It's a Nasty Affair.
BOOKSTORES: ORDER DIRECT
FROM PUBLISHER AT 40% DISCOUNT KICKING THE HABIT:
(5 or more copies) A Lesbian Nun Story
Multiple Dimensions (213) 469-4454 by Jeanne Cordova
1604 Vista del Mar Ave., Hollywood, CA 90028 256 pages, softcover $9.95
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:23 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsCONTENTS
FBN
Editor & Publisher DEPARTMENTS
Carol Seajay Advertising Index 5...0.. 95
Bestsellers. Se a 57
Columnists
Art Books Tee Corinne Classified AdS. . > -A SP a N 96
C Ca hn ila dd ria en n ’s C o Bn ot oe kn st K D To n Hn oa r nM inu grray FLrome tthte e Cormspu te r 9 Ta.b le N. . ,.. .... ...9... 3
Gay Men's Literature Jane Troxell
International Books Joni Seager Out-of-Print Books Wanted/Offered ........ 93
Mainstream Publishers Sandi Torkildson Subscription. INformations sere 12
Mainstream Publishers Anita McClellan They Went That-A-Way..... -è el l es 53
Mysteries Mary Lowry Writing Wamedi e. a i t 44
Poetry Betsy Nuse
Science Fiction Susanna Sturgis
University Presses Kris Hoover THE UNIVERSITY PRESS SECTION
Young Adult Books Christine Jenkins Buying from the University Presses ........ 23
Proofreading Women In Scholarly Publishing .......... 25
Pat Kelso Academic and Educational Presses ........ 27
University Presses... 35
Advertising
Brenda Cummings
ARTICLES
Feminist Bookstore News News from the Bookstores ............. 11
456 14th Street Suite 6 News/Short: Stories: =... BP.. e.. 15
PO Box 882554
San Fr a 4n 1c 5i -s 6c 2o 6 -C 15A 5 6 94188 Bar D cLu et et so b ln i o aS nt na f f a & F i r Ged Fay e m Wr ii nte ir ss t C o n Bfe ore on kce fair ............ 19
FEMINIST BOOKSTORE NEWS is the communications Canadian Contenti? s995 M SS L 47
vehicle for the informal network of feminist bookstores. New Sage'Press =. r rae 45
FBN reaches 350 feminist and feminist-inclined book-
stores in the U.S. and Canada as well as feminist book- Playing Bestseller.. = ie 46
sellers in England, Europe, Australia, New Zealand,
India and Japan. Librarians, women's studies teachers,
cb oo mok p r ir se ev i e tw hee r s r, e m p au ib nl dis eh re r os f a n thd e f se um bsin cris it b e rb si .bliophiles THAE BrOOtKS BOOKS . s 67
L be et t re er cs e, i v a er dt i c tl hes e, tn ee nw ths i ot fe m ts h e a n md o nan thn o u pn rc ee cm ede inn gts ps uh bo lu icld ation. Our Own Presses N, 61
Sauigtnheodr s .articles and letters are the responsibility of the The Small PresSS8S e arr 79
FEMINIST BOOKSTORE NEWS (ISSN: 0741-6555) is Gay Mens LilSralure r 73
published bi-monthly in January, March, May, July,
S Ne Ep Wte Sm b ae tr , 4 5a 6n d 1 4 N tho v e Sm trb ee er t b Suy i t eF E M 6, IN SI aS nT FB rO aO ncK iS sT coO ,R E CA MYSÍErİES::e lt d valeas u si: Tf
9 C F4 EA1 M.0 I3 NP. O I SS S Te T c M o Bn A Od S O- TC KEl SRa Ts : s O P R P l Eeo as st Nea Eg We se n Sp ,d a i Pd a O d a d t r B e osS xsa n 8c h 8F 2ar 5na 5gn 4ec ,s i s Sc to ao n, P Po ue btr liy s. h e. r 0 s ’ S B RE oS wUS A . S . 0 . R 2R . NW R S .N , 8 375
Francisco, CA 94188-2554. Science: Fiction . s e 71
SUBSCRIPTIONS: $50/yr/6 issues, $95/2 years. Plus University:Presses nN 35
$6/yr Canadian postage; $13/yr for overseas postage.
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:23 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
£
<S
a v
D
£
&
Decoding Abortion Rhetoric Free Love and Anarchism
The Communication of Social Change The Biography of Ezra Heywood
Celeste Michelle Condit Martin Henry Blatt
Condit examines the persuasive tactics and methods used by Ezra Heywood was a vivid l9th-century anarchist who
both sides in the ongoing abortion debate. She offers readers had advanced views on almost everything: the war-making
both an orderly way through the barrage of rhetoric with state, the labor movement, free love, and “woman’s
which we are all bombarded and an opportunity to identify slavery.” Blatt follows Heywood’s lifelong campaign for
and clarify their own opinions on a very difficult subject. freedom of speech, woman suffrage, better working condi-
Illus. Cloth, $24.95. tions, and elevated social and economic status for women.
Free Love and Anarchism should delight scholars of
Homework women’s studies, sexual politics, abolitionism, labor reform,
Historical and Contemporary Perspectives and libertarian currents in 19th-century America.
on Paid Labor at Home Illus. Cloth, $26.95.
Edited by Eileen Boris and Cynthia R. Daniels Labor’s Flaming Youth
D ho oe ms e a l el now coi un rg a g i en d nu es wtr ia fl o r p mie sc e o fw o sr wk e a ta en dd lh abo ou rr l y w hw ico hr k r ea it n- Telephone Operators and Worker
force existing sexual and racial divisions of labór? Can paid Militancy, 1878-1923
labor at home be structured to maximize its considerable Stephen H. Norwood
benefits and minimize its historically proven risks? Early in the 20th century, telephone operators organized the
Homework offers an excellent and timely survey of this first national labor union in America led by women. This
increasingly controversial issue. book explores the circumstances that allowed these women
Illus. Cloth, $32.50; paper, $12.95. to build a powerful labor organization and, with it, a new
concept of woman’s identity and role.
Chaste Liberation A volume in the Working Class in American History and
Celibacy and Female Cultural Status Women in American History series.
Sally L. Kitch Illus. Cloth, $32.50.
pC ro an cc te in cet sr a t oi fn g t ho en s t hh ake e ris ss , u e K oo rf e s hc ae nli sb ,a c ay n, d K Sit ac nh c t ie fx ica am tii on ne is s t sthe Order toll free 800/666-2211 or FAX free 800/688-2877 from
and offers an innovative discussion of the symbolism of University of Illinois Press
sexuality and gender. c/o CUP Services • P. O. Box 6525 . Ithaca, NY 14851
Cloth, $24.95.
November /December 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:23 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
NOTES FROM
AHE
o
o
o
o
o0o0000 o
WELCOME TO THE UNIVERSITY settling and damage. We've had more cracks develop
PRESS AND EARTHQUAKE from the aftershocks than from the quake itself.
SPECIAL ISSUE! There 's I la i v c el e ia nr au nn d e arr est aa n od fi n tg h et h ca it t y t h ti hs a ti s n s’ et e m o ev de r t oy e t e. x-
We were a bit shaken up by the earthquake— perience fairly minimal damage — we had a lamp
more on that later in the column — but basically we break and a few things fall off shelves. The guys
came through it intact and feeling very lucky. Book- upstairs had a little more damage, being higher up.
cases fell over in the office but no one was hurt. No “Nothing serious.” But one house around the corner
serious permanent damage to home or work, and all was suddenly red-tagged. Another on the other
of our friends and families were safe and accounted corner was yellow tagged. Another had the chimney
for within just a couple of days, except for one, and fall through the roof — fortunately into a room that
she showed up on the third day. was vacant at the time...
Living in a community of a few million people,
most of whom are experiencing post-traumatic-stress-
syndrome, is also quite an experience... The news-
paper reports that 35% of those surveyed thought they
were more irritable than usual and that 18% couldn't
eat. Our informal survey found that 85% thought
Thanks to everyone who called and wrote. We felt others were more irritable than usual — and at least as
many couldn't stop eating as were having trouble
live through. It still is, for that matter, what with
aftershocks and new quakes on two additional faults
(leading to the much asked post-shock question: FBN
Whose Fault is it, anyway?). Transportation is still a
mess — even after the bridge reopens we'll still have Deadlines
three of the seven freeways that lead to it destroyed
and parts of two others closed. 25% of the hotels for
the homeless and the destitute were destroyed... The Magazines Issue/
There's a lot of physical and social damage that wasn’t
in white upscale neighborhoods and didn’t make the January Issue
TV news. Every trip out of one’s own neighborhood
and off familiar paths means seeing new damage — December 21
buildings with big cracks, buildings red-tagged (no
entrance) and yellow tagged (limited access only) and Spring Announcements/
buildings are still being inspected — and occasionally March Issue
red-tagged. Coming across new damage constantly is
e sx hh oca kus st . i n Ag n d— t ha es s at fr te es rs sf hu ol c k i sn ci at us s e o w mn o r w e a y cr aa cs k i nth ge a naf dter- February 9
November/December 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:23 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
eating. “Except” for the aftershocks, — and that most of us making the occassional bad decisions about
pretty regular uncertainty of not knowing what's most everything, safety issues included. Even the cat
going to happen — things “seem” pretty regular. Ex- won't move from her window seat unless an after-
cept that, with the activity on the two other fault lines, shock is over 4.4...
the chance of another significant quake within the
month is back up to 20%. Except that nothing (and no
one) works quite the way it used to — in terms of
efficiency, concentration, transportation...
But living here has its silver linings. San Francis-
cans on the whole were amazingly sane, people took
care of each other, the AIDS hot meals program fed Damage to San Francisco and East Bay bookstores
every emergency shelter in the city, there was almost was surprisingly light. Mama Bear’s reported a few
no panic and little panic buying.... And now that the books off shelves and a broken glass... Old Wives Tales
earth and the people have settled down a bit, driving reportedly lost more videos from the shelves than
is a pleasure if you don't want to go out of the city — books, and even WomanCrafts sustained damage to
it’s amazing how many of the cars belong to East-Bay only one craftwoman’s work. Pretty amazing, since
commuters and how wide open the streets are. Park- parts of Valencia Street sank about six feet in the 1906
ing is almost easy. The ferries are running the Bay quake. Two Sisters in Menlo Park had a little more
again — and will for at least a couple of months after damage — “Our doorway is glass — set in a wall of
the bridge re-opens. And they’re just as lovely and windows, so there wasn't anyplace to GO. We had a
romantic as Gale Wilhelm portrayed them in Torch couple of unsecured bookcases and we just watched
Light To Valhalla. everything fall — in slow motion. The damage looked
much worse than it was... we kind of circled for a while,
not knowing where to begin, but it took a few hours to
put it back together. We had about $200 in damages —
not bad, really. In a store down the street, a statue of
Quan Yin was decapitated... ours just lost an index
finger. Do you suppose that means anything?”
We've also had a progression of new, shall we call LS Distributors, a local book and magazine dis-
them, “entertainments”? Briefly the sport was dash- tributor in SF had severe building damage. They were
ing for doorways. That was followed by a version of scheduled to move to a new warehouse after the
“Was that another earthquake or just a big truck pass- holidays and were able to remove their books from the
ing on the street?” If you could get the question out damaged building and move into the new space pre-
before anything else happened, it was probably a renovation. Similarly Crossing Press in Santa Cruz,
truck. The other way to tell instantly is to look to the where books (and take this as very dry humor) were
cat — if her ears are straight up, it’s a quake. She “rearranged” by the earthquake, was able to move to
ignores trucks. Most of us somehow developed that new, undamaged warehouse space in, of all places,
initially feline skill at determining which is which and Watsonville.
went on to playing numbers, as in “Whew! I'll bet that Santa Cruz, as I’m sure you know from the news
was a 4.” “Easy! I'd say 4.3, anyway.” Then you turn media, was very badly damaged. All four Santa Cruz
on a radio or TV — as if to see how close you were. bookstores were destroyed. The very exciting news as
Now that we're active on three different fault lines the we go to press is that Bookshop Santa Cruz was able
game has evolved to “Name That Fault” and “Whose to recover most of the stock and many of the fixtures
Fault Is It.” That’s the current challenge as we go to (and computer, too, we hope, though that wasn't men-
press. There's also a special night-time version of the tioned in the report we heard) over the weekend. The
game when you wake up and the bed is shaking called City’s original plan was to bulldoze the entire struc-
“Was that the cat jumping on the bed or is this an ture, but somehow, enough pressure was brought to
earthquake?” We've all gotten blasé about it, though, bear, and the building was deemed safe enough for
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:23 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
people to enter and remove stock. Bookshop Santa sity press titles are available through distributors at
Cruz will (or probably has, by now) opened in a tent reasonable discounts — too many excellent books
in the parking lot and is back to providing its commu- must still be ordered direct from each individual pub-
nity with books. As FBN subscriber Koré Archer re- lisher as needed. Using distributors has been an ex-
ports: “Bookshop Santa Cruz was the only place in pense that most university presses have been
town where you could find new lesbian, feminist, and unwilling to undertake — but the lack of distribution
gay men’s titles and that aisle was used as a commu- must be costing even more in lost sales. It’s ironic that
nity bulletin board since we have no coffeehouse or all of the feminist presses, and most successful small
center. Neil Coonerty, Bookshop’s owner, is planning presses have found a way to afford using distributors
a 23-year anniversary celebration on November 11 — but the University presses — even with their
and is asking supporters to bring “five good books" to various subsidies — haven't seen their way clear to
help the store restart. Gestures of determination like make that leap. University press distribution is a prob-
this have enormous morale-building effect." lem that will only become more pressing as their
Newswire reported that Bantam /Dell/Dou- publishing grows more important vis-á-vis the cor-
bleday had taken the lead among the mainstream poratization of mainstream publishing.
presses of canceling Bookshop Santa Cruz's outstand-
ing debt. Naiad Press has taken that lead among the
small presses and has offered to send new stock at no IN OTHER MATTERS
charge for the reopening. Like most California busi- Even without the earthquake, this has been a very
nesses, Bookshop Santa Cruz's insurance carried an interesting and exciting period of time.
earthquake exclusion clause. Dorothy (Trash) Allison's agent set up a bidding
situation that heated up nicely, resulting in a $38,500
advance for her first (and as yet unwritten) novel.
UNIVERSITY PRESS ISSUE Dutton stayed with the bidding longest and so got the
Sometime in that misty BQ (Before Quake) time, novel. Luckily the first half of the advance was paid
we were doing the annual University Press issue of before Dutton’s demise (the second due on delivery of
FBN. Special thanks to Kris Hoover (who does FBN’s the completed manuscript), but it’s not clear where
University Press column all year around) for her ar- the book will land when the dust settles from the
ticle for new booksellers on ordering from the univer- upheavals at Dutton — it could stay in the
sity presses. Susan Harlow, who happened to be NAL/Viking/Penguin corporate family, or be
changing planes in San Francisco when the earth- dropped or sold.
quake struck, ended up on an unscheduled flight to
Seattle when the plane she was sitting on was ordered
off the runway — the air being a much safer place for
airplanes and people during an earthquake than the
ground. She did make it back to Utah eventually,
wrote the article on Women in Scholarly Publishing Meanwhile Roseanne Barr's Roseanne: My Life As
(WISP) and got it to us by deadline. In addition to our A Woman (Harper & Row, $18.95 cl, 0-06015957-X) is
regular University Press column, this issue includes a out and, true to her comments at ABA, she really does
special column on recent work from Academic and credit the Woman to Woman Bookstore staff in Denver
Education Presses. (the current women’s bookstore in Denver is The Book
University and academic presses continue to do Garden) with recognizing her work and her humor
exciting feminist publishing and continue to take up and the encouragement that got her started. Roseanne
slack as the mainstream presses slide further into the was a member of the bookstore and hot line staff
multinational conglomerate quagmire. By and large, during the seventies. It’s the only TV star autobiogra-
most university presses have developed standard phy that I can recall recommending to women’s book-
trade discounts for trade bookstores, but the biggest stores stock. It is rare that women’s bookstores get
difficulty continues to be distribution. Too few univer- See Computer Table, page 94
November /December 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:23 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Because news coverage of the earthquake has the guidelines of the FEMA Family Grant Plan.
been as racist and as homophobic as new coverage The economic devastation of the quake promises to
generally is, we're including some non-bookstore re- have a debilitating impact on lesbian and gay organizations
lated earthquake relief addresses: and periodicals as well. Local alternative periodicals depend
heavily on advertising for financial support. Economic
American Red Cross losses following the quake (an estimated 30% of the down-
Watsonville Chapter town commercial district is facing demolition) have
351 E. Lake Boulevard severely undercut this financial base. The Santa Cruz AIDS
Watsonville CA 95076 Project (SCAP) which relies on community donations for
Watsonville, with its predominantly Spanish-speak- about 40% of its total funding has also been severely affected
ing population, has received little attention from the press and is already $9000 behind in its fundraising with the
and therefore fewer contributions to help the people with the cancellation of the local Lesbian and Gay Film Festival, a
fewest personal resources. major fundraiser for SCAP, and the cancellation of the
annual “Business Aid for AIDS” drive in which local
Women’s Crisis Support businesses traditionally contribute a portion of their sales
1025 Center Street to the AIDS project. Donations to the SC Lesbian and Gay
Santa Cruz CA 95060 Earthquake Relief Fund may be earmarked for specific
WCS provides county-wide bilingual support services aspects of quake relief (ie., individuals, local gay/lesbian
for women who have been battered or sexually assaulted, or media, SCAP) or can be left in the hands of local community
who have chemical dependency problems. They operate a organizers to divide according to need. For further informa-
hotline and shelter. Domestic violence skyrockets after nat- tion call Wendy Chapkis at 408-423-8980.
ural disasters. All the bay area shelters are overflowing and
over-extended. Seven rapes were reported in Santa Cruz in Memorial Fund for Robin Ortiz
the first two weeks after the earthquake. c/o Pacific Western Bank
PO Box 1455
M 10a 8t r i Lx o c uW sto m Se tn r’ es e t N e #w 1s 3magazine Santa Cruz CA 95061
Santa Cruz CA 95060 Account # 0110 408318
Matrix, one of the oldest feminist periodicals in the Robin Ortiz was one of the people killed when the
U.S., had just resumed publication one month before the Pacific Garden Mall collapsed. National newsmedia made
quake after over a year's silence. Their office was damaged much hoopla about Robin's “friends” who kept vigil and
and they are seeking a new location. demanded that rescue operations not be suspended at night-
fall and that rescue operations begin at dawn, rather than
SaCnta / CrOuz L es biaMn & C GayC Earthquake Relief Fund 9AM, and protested that the necessary lumber wasn't
gathered during the night, arriving only at 11AM, allowing
PO BOx 1764 actual search operations to function for only four hours
Santa Cruz CA 95061 before being suspended again. The same news media refused
Without significant help from outside the area, the to acknowledge Robin's lover, Ruth Rabinowitz, as her
earthquake will have a long-term impact on Santa Cruz's lover, or to identify Robin as a lesbian. The media chose
lesbian and gay community. instead to use “the story” and run photos while “invisibil-
Individual gay and lesbian community members have izing” Robin's lesbianism and her relationship with Ruth
suffered loss of life, homes, jobs and businesses. A number with the euphemisms “roommate“ and “best-friend,"
of gay and/or lesbian households, some of them with child- despite explicit requests that the relationship, and Robin's
ren, have been dislocated permanently by the quake. Due to activism, be included in the news coverage. Robin was a
both explicit homophobia and “guidelines” which define lesbian rights and AIDS activist. Robin Ortiz is deeply
“family” as narrowly and as rigidly as possible, displaced mourned by her community.
gays and lesbians cannot easily find shelter in emergency
facilities for displaced families. Nor do these families meet Thanks to Koré Archer for this information. O
November/December 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:23 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
5:04 pm October 17
EARTHQUAKE!
SAN FRANCISCO: FBN’s “new” mega-computer | a half, it turned out). — All this before Brenda and I
sits in the back corner of the office, away from window could even check in from our respective doorways,
glare. I was sitting at the terminal making a bank | “Are you OK?” “Are you OK?” “I think so.” “I've
deposit at the end of the day, Brenda was finishing a | never feltone like that before.” “I thought it was going
few odd things before leaving to pick up Jon at his
afterschool program. The computer creaked, as it FBN office halfway through clean-up.
often does, then, suddenly, there was something else O :
— a wave of motion coming through the very floor.
The FBN office is on the third floor of an old,
well-built redwood-framed building that sways like a
tree in an earthquake. I lived in that space for ten years
and have experienced a lot of earthquakes here but I
didn't like this rattling at all. We Californians like to
think we're cool in earthquakes so I said — calmly
mind you, almost nonchalantly, — to Brenda — “I
think I'll go stand in a doorway.” I actually thought
about turning off the computer but the moving started
again — and I was across that room and in the door-
way before I had another conscious thought. Even
before I turned around the bookcases had fallen for-
ward. The sounds of books sliding off shelves and
crashing to the floor was loud against the background
sounds of things crashing and breaking and the
rumble of the earthquake itself. The floor was shaking,
the walls were shaking, I looked at the trusty old
Kaypro swaying on its table and thought to go hold it
up, but the swaying and shaking was getting so in-
tense that I had to brace my hands against the sides of
the doorframe to stay upright. Id been in a fair num-
ber of earthquakes before — including a few that
drove me to doorways, but never had I been in one
that shook as hard or as long as this one was lasting. It
just kept going. I wondered how long the building
could stand. I wondered if this was The Big One. I
listened for the sound of water rushing in but couldn't
hoearc eanay n so I dyeciedetd . t h at: we hadn't fallen into the
And then the world stopped shaking. The elec-
tricity flashed on, then off, then flickered again before
going out again. (It would be out for the next day and
Volume 12 Number 4 7 November /December 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:23 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
to be The Big One there for a few minutes!” The earth bookcase would have smashed through the screen
stayed still. We looked at the still standing walls, felt and into the computer.
the floor solid beneath our feet, listed for fire sirens in Shock is such an intelligent response of the body
the sudden quiet and shrugged. Obviously it wasn’t and mind to trauma. It was a good hour before I
the big one. We weren't in the ocean. We stepped out realized that my head had been occupying the exact
of our doorways. spot where the bookcase was now resting only sec-
onds beforeit fell. That, had it not been for the warning
of that first “advance quake,” I'd probably have been
sitting there as it came down. It was a few days before
I could comprehend the geometry of the angle of the
bookcase, the size of my head and location of the
“What a mess!” may have been Brenda’s com- computer screen.
ment on looking around. My brain was having trouble We righted the bookcase, and the one next to it.
making sense of the four oddly empty bookcases lean- The other two had books wedged behind and under
ing forward at drunken angles and the heaps of books them, and we couldn’t move them without first clear-
on the floor. One of the bookcases was dangling about ing away all the books and Brenda needed to leave.
four inches above the computer screen. I looked at the But they were well wedged, and not going anywhere
blank screens on the computers and started pulling so we decided to leave them.
plugs, hoping that the surge protectors had done their Still in shock, but not knowing it, Brenda set out
jobs, hoping their insides weren't seared out by the to pick up Jon. The electricity goes off almost casually
electrical surges as the lights flashed on and off. Odd in our section of the Mission district, and it didn’t occur
the things one thinks of in these moments. Odd how to either of us that there would be no (electric) street
the time slows down in an earthquake and then cars or buses running, that the whole city was without
speeds by as you stand in shock. Five, then ten electricity, that we'd just had a major earthquake.
minutes passed — much faster than the 15 seconds of I got it into my head that I should move the
the quake itself. computer and laser printer to a “safe” place under a
“I've got to pick up Jon,” Brenda remembered. desk as a precaution against further damage from
“Do you have time to help me prop that bookcase aftershocks. Rose called from Berkeley as I was begin-
up?” I asked, nodding at the one suspended above the ning to grapple with moving the computers. The
computer. “Td want to move it away from the com- phone was visible through the heaps of books and,
puter in case there are aftershocks.” strangely enough, was still on the hook. Was I OK?
“Sure,” Brenda replied, confidently. But even get- Brenda? The office? She was OK. The bookstore (Black
ting to it was a challenge — wading through the heaps Oak Books where she works) was OK. They thought
of books, trying to secure a foothold without moving it was just an earthquake — a big one, but, you know...
the very books that were propping the bookcases up But they were getting calls from friends and customers
at that point. Brenda climbed through the storage and had heard that power was out in the city and she
closet/sleeping loft and approached from the other just thought she'd check.... They were having trouble
side, moving books off the keyboard when she got finding a radio station.... Ten or fifteen minutes later
close enough. she called again. They’d heard that the Bay Bridge had
What we saw when we got to the other side of the collapsed — an idea inconceivable in rush hour traffic.
computer desk amazed me into silence again. Some- That there were fires in The City and in Berkeley —
how, in falling, the bookcase had jammed the secretary they could see the smoke from the Berkeley fires. This
chair into the computer desk at such an odd angle that was a bigger quake than any of us had imagined...
it caught the falling bookcase and held it suspended at They were just starting to have news on the radio. It’s
an angle that ran from the wall, across the seating very odd to realize now, in hindsight, that most of the
space to about four inches above the computer screen. country — at least the World-Series watching country
If the chair had been pushed straight under the com- — knew as much or more about what had happened
puter desk, or been pushed at all to the side, the See Earthquake, page 10
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:23 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
HerBooks independent publishing company, founded in Boston
PO Box 7467 in 1854 and still going strong. We do pay Harper &
Santa Cruz, CA 95061 Row to distribute our books to the trade, but this
Dear FBN, arrangement will end on January 1 when our books
Just wanted to let everyone know that HerBooks will be sold by Farrar, Straus & Giroux sales reps.
survived the Santa Cruz earthquake with no damage. Here are the Beacon books that were listed as
Thanks to all those who wrote or called for your support. Harper & Row publications: Twice Blessed, edited by
We look forward to seeing many of you at ABA in June, Christie Balka and Andy Rose; Nice Jewish Girls, edited
where we will be sharing a booth with Eighth Mountain by Evelyn Torton Beck; Looking at Gay and Lesbian Life,
Press and Institute of Lesbian Studies. by Warren Blumenfeld and Diane Raymond; Radical
Best, Spirits, by Ann Braude; and Taking a Chance on God, by
Irene Reti John McNeill.
Incidentally, Harper will accept returns on H&R
Sisterspirit invoiced Beacon orders through June 30, 1990. Farrar,
1040 Park Avenue Straus & Giroux will also accept returns.
Santa Jose, CA 95126 Sincerely,
Dear FBN, Susan G. Worst
Publicist
mostly intact. Praise the Goddess we are open for
business!
Thank you for a job well done and continued
success to you al].
Respectfully, American Booksellers Association
Clarice Mazzanti 137 West 25th St.
New York, NY 10001
To the Editor:
The ABA in wishing to be sensitive to the specific
needs of all of its various constituent groups and their
Beacon Press common interests has experimented with some of its
25 Beacon St. educational programs. Among these has been a
Boston, MA 02108-2800 “Children’s Booksellers School” — a “networking”
Dear Booksellers, program for groups of African-American specialist
We here at Beacon Press were very happy to see and science fiction specialist members and articles in
the extensive coverage of our feminist books in the American Bookseller on specialty bookselling. Addi-
“On Publishers Row” section of the FBN Fall An- tionally, specialist booksellers have developed the
nouncements issue. Unfortunately, all our books were new “core” inventory in the form of a new Booksellers’
listed as being published by Harper & Row. We are an Book of Lists.
November /December 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:23 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Our foray into attempting to provide some form
bof ns e r uv ni sc ue cf eo sr u“ lf e im i n yis ot b o eo yk es se ll be er cs a” a ep p oe fa r s rt o nh aa bv ie WSToTlfTeSN i daeaoa
ee c sf n u r u s o u i l-
ity to find “appropriate” group leaders. I am sorry that
turned out to be the case because, in our opinion,
Darlene Pagano met the criteria established. As a
former independent bookseller and current manager
of a large and diverse feminist department of Cody’s, Tae) egye zA DISTRIBUTION
a major Bay area independent bookstore, we thought
she would do a good job. It appears (as you know is
often the case in association business) that some of the
p soe mop el oe n et h wou hg oh t c a t mh ea t s ps eh ce i f id ci ad l, l y a n fd r o mso m ae ft eh mo iu ng ih stt bth ooa kt - ATW LO e s bIN ia n T W SoE aN p T OY pera
wst oo ur le d r hat avh ee r b et eh nan m a o r g ee n ae pr pa rl o pb ro io ak tes .t o r We it s hu c th h aa ts iC nody’s W ME y eB R I CN G v A e i Q U eILT
m bili ln ed d, an se x “t S p y ece ia ar lt yt h e Inse t e rs em sta l l T ag br lo eu tap l k ss ”e s s tio on s a l lw owil l t b he e two O gN yE d yFI sN E 0 D A OY N o)
different kinds of specialty booksellers to meet to- SONIA JOHNSON...and more!
gether or separately as they determine. I would pub-
licly like to thank Darlene for her efforts on behalf of WHOLESALE 30% DISCOUNT PLUS SHIPPING
ABA. In the meantime, we would be more than happy no minimum • catalog available
to have you provide us with names of people who will P.O. Box 64 N e (4w 0 8 )A l 2m 6a 8d -6en 78, 2 CA 95042
be in Las Vegas and might be willing to serve as the
facilitator.
Sincerely, Earthquake, Continued From Page 8
Bernard E. Rath than we did in the middle of it.
Executive Director So, clearly, it was bigger than we had thought! It
was time to go up on the roof to look for fires, for
We will be glad to provide ABA with a list of feminist downed buildings, to check the condition of the street.
bookstores that will be represented at Las Vegas. Time to check to see that neighbors were OK, that
FBN’s point, as readers may recall from the friends were safe.
July/August editorial, is that the appropriate leadership for It was time to head home. Important to get there
the Feminist Specialty Bookstore Roundtable is a feminist before it got dark. The streets would be less safe after
specialty bookstore. Although specialty stores and general dark. Time to start calling and looking for friends.
independent stores have much information to share with It was beginning to hit — we had had a major
one another, specialty stores face a unique set of challenges earthquake. The damage reports were just beginning
and issues that are significantly different from those to come it. It was clear that the whole city hadn't been
experienced by general booksellers and we expected these leveled... but we were just beginning to find out what
issues to be the focus of a roundtable so titled. happened. I started walking home, joining the groups
We would like to encourage ABA to expand its of people walking home from downtown, stopping
programs and services for specialty bookstores rather than occasionally to listen to someone’s transistor radio,
cutting them back or shifting the focus of these few stopping occasionally to notice damage, the absence
programs to the needs of general independent stores. Spe- of major injuries, at least where I was, the weather still
cialty stores, including feminist bookstores, represent an warm from the day’s sun, the sky pink with sunset,
important and growing segment of independent booksel- and a few stars coming out brightly, with no city lights
cl bi an ng o . o o nSu l kyp p s o r er est luin l ltg i n ia nn gd s t rs t er n ce gn otg h mt eh ne in n mi gn g t u h s e np e ec inia ttl it yry e . b i no o dk e -ps Ct eo nr d Se es nt o Tto h et d i rm eoai ln izis ah t i o t n h e oir fh p wr he asite n tc he a. d .T ah c e t u ae la lr yt h- hqu apaCk pe e n ew dSa s h ao dOv e r y. et
November /December 1989 10
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:23 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Judith’s Room y bo ou u'r ge h h te r e b!” o oW 1 ke s a r he e rto eo ,. T mo a a dll e o f s u y go gu e sw th ioo n h sa ,v e brought
NEW YORK, NY: Before our opening-day flowers friends, sent your students, carried our fliers to work,
wilted we had our first event: Karen Thompson talk- schools and organizations, and spread the word by
ing about the events, both legal and personal, follow- phone, in newsletters, at meetings and concerts, we
ing the publication of her book, Why Can't Sharon thank you. You are doing what needs to be done to
Kowalski Come Home? keep us going and growing. Thank you!
Yes, New York does have a woman’s bookstore
d ofo u b ol ue rS d i n Wtc oe o m oo vp enee rn ’s i n 4 Sg , t0 u 0d d0a i ey st, i t so l eeu csr t! i oWi nn ,ev e wn art ho e i r c hy p a r ch t oa i ns c tu ilm nar uo l er y se p tt orh oa un d again. Support it! — from Judith’s Room's newsletter O
expand with the help of customer suggestions, sales
reps and publishers’ catalogues. Although the books
are arranged alphabetically by title, our computer can Southeastern Feminist
select them by subjects. One of our major goals in the Booksellers Meet
upcoming year is to establish a mutually supportive
role with Women’s Studies professors to support, ATLANTA, GA: Charis Books organized a meeting for
supplement and learn from their needs. Although, feminist booksellers the day before the South Eastern
during our first year, we will not be able to supply the Booksellers Association (SEBA) regional trade show
texts, We can provide supplementary reading materi- this fall. Although many of the South Eastern feminist
aels.r Wse aaren ndow dsoeinvg ebursianels s wwithh oovelre s50a lpeubrlissh.- å booksellers expressed interest, most were not able to
leave their stores to attend the meeting.
We're especially proud of our reading series and Six women attend the day-long meeting (four
our Emerging Talent Competition. In four readings from Charis), one from Lodestar (Birmingham, Ala-
during 1990, Judith’s Room will present Olga bama) and one from feminist-minded, women-owned
Broumas, Toi Derricotte, Alicia Ostriker and Molly general bookstore Malaprops (Asheville, North
Peacock, each reading with a poet who has not yet Carolina) and had a wonderful time. “We spent the
published a full length book. Poets will be submitting whole day talking bookstore business and ideas, why we
manuscripts through October 16; winners will be an- do what we do. We talked about money and salaries and
nounced early 1990. Thank you, Robyn Selman, for benefits and what's realistic. We all live frugally — that’s
your inspiration, spirit and hard work! assumed if you're talking about making a living in a
We believe it is important to promote writers bookstore — We have different sized stores in communi-
whose reputations are not as yet established, and ties with very different costs-of-living, but we all seem to
we're counting on the women’s community to sup- be living at about the same standard — not easily, but
port them. adequately. The whole day felt very cooperative and
We want to take this opportunity to thank you for supportive. There was a vital feminist spirit — everyone
your loyalty and support. Our doors have been open learning from each other, despite our different ex-
for over six months, and still, almost every day (except periences, store sizes and focuses....” organizer Linda
for Mondays, when we're closed), a new customer Bryant (Charis Books/ Atlanta) reported. “Organizing it
walks in, looks around, smiles and says, “I'm so glad around the SEBA trade show turned out to be totally
11 November / December 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:23 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
irrelevant. For one reason or another, none of the exciting. Heartfelt thanks to all of you who have
out-of-towners stayed for the trade show. We did shared ideas with us, made suggestions, buoyed us
break mid-day, though, to go back to Charis. We were up, brought in friends, and bought our wares!
on the SEBA bookstore tour and at 1:00 about 75 — from Southern Sisters News O
booksellers walked in. Most of them didn’t know
what a feminist bookstore was and had never been in
one before. We were glad they came...and so were Silver Moon
they.” LONDON, ENGLAND: It has been a funny old summer
i Cn h F ae r bS iro suu at rh fye o a rs it n e r mn B i r of m rem ein i g n h ii ns at m f . ob ro Co mak lls a t to Lr ii oe ns nd a .w Bil (rl 4 y 0m a 4ne -te 5t a 2 t 4ag -a 0in 304) O g win e h t e t rh t eoe a tC llhi t e ty h, s eh w o cpi ut h sa t n o t mdr ea t rn h ss ep no wr e t w r e hs . t e r n Mi k owe ss te m war ea r rk i ei vn e g sd t u i w ct k o nd di if nef ri ic nu glt to
traffic jams or waiting at the stations. Everyone re-
Southern Sisters mained amazingly cheerful and fortunately as we go
to press it looks like it is all behind us.
DURHAM, NC: We have made it through the first year! And the weather! Well, all overseas members of
— not always easily or gracefully, but intact, and the Quarterly will just have to bear with us Brits while
learning more all the time. We've had the pleasure of we have a little rave. I have been able to wear short
meeting more readers, writers, scholars, artists, activ- sleeves nearly all summer and I've even invested in a
ists, advocates, businesswomen, healers, crafts- pair of shorts. The colour scheme of the latter was
women, mothers, grandmothers, daughters, and described by one Silver Moon staff member as Acid
sisters than we could have imagined; we've had the House meets Matisse. I’m still puzzling if she meant it
frustration of always knowing about more necessary as a compliment.
books by, for, and about women than we can afford to By the time this arrives on your doormat we will
stock; we've learned a great deal about finding have had three very exciting visits from authors at the
balances between idealism and business, good inten- shop. On 31 August Susan Brownmiller came to Silver
tions and our own limitations. Running Southern Sis- Moon to discuss her novel Waverly Place; on 6 Septem-
ters is difficult, engrossing, humbling, fun, and ber Jeanette Winterson signed copies of her new novel
*
D Owned and operated by women
NFB amN, e PO BOX 882554, SAN FRANCISCO, CA 94188 D D R e ad Wers/ ob miblio eph nile ’s s studies teacher and m D eCon-owned and run by women
Business Name D D L Wibr ra ir tia en r I/ DW e F ea mre i ne is sp tec i a fll iy c t iin ot nerested in:
Address D Bookseller D Lesbian fiction
D Publisher [D Lesbian non-fiction
PC hit oy n/ eS :tate/Zip DD Pe r aOi fo td tsi wc ha ol reD F De Dm in oi Hs mt nt s’h ste o osr ty ia en sd ip to leli stics
D C r me n W ei ru dy t
N One Year - $50. Check enclosed.
H One Year - $55. Bill us. D Health
Bookstores, Publishers, and Periodicals — D Women and work
[N Special Trial Offer Is your focus primarily: D Gay men’s literature
1/2 year - $25 Check enclosed. D D F e Gmi an yis t DD P Ceac he i la dnd r e a nnt ’si- n u bke o o b kok ss
D + $13 for international postage. D Alternative/political D Other
I + $6 for Canadian postage. D General independent bookstore
November/December 1989 12
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:23 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
S he ox pi en sg f t oh re . TC hh ee nr r y on w 2h 2i c h S e ph te er m bp eu rb l i Ash lie cr es Wh aa lv ke e r h i wgh as NEWI! from
here to sign copies of The Temple of My Familiar, her 0
first novel since The Color Purple. a
The Quarterly is packed with goodies as usual.
Theres a feature on some of Alice Walker's books; her
Tb hac ek l Wist o m f eic nt ’sio n P r h esa ss . b Te he in s ir se s- ui ess u ae ld so b iy n c lh ue dr e s p u a b l si es lh ee cr -s pox 37A s540
tion of some new Crime Books — this genre seems to đp!S-
grow and grow in popularity.
— from the Silver Moon Quarterly O
Tomorrow’s World
C tiO mL eU M toB I A suN pA p, o r O t H m: yR si eg lh ft , mno yw p I a'm rt n es rti l l w hw io ler k sin hg e’ s f u inll S LP esIR biI aT nE D D eL sE irS eB I A AN s S Social Action
school, and my business, Tomorrow's World, ’til it
suppo r “t Hs e ai lt ts hel f C! are for women is a right, not an after- by Nett Hart S hP eI aR rI tT E oD f L seE lS fB -I lA ovN eS fb oe rg in ous r si en l v ea s as
thought. Women are taking charge of our bodies and our Lesbians and spirals through the
lives.” This quote is the focus of Tomorrow’s World entire world creating social
Femail Bookservice. The current “For Women change as an effect of that love.
Only” flier lists and briefly describes over 50 books $9.95 post paid 160 pages
devoted to lesbians’ and women’s physical and
emotional health care, including preventative care. current tenants forming a cooperative to purchase it.
The brochure in progress, “Women Dealing With If those plans go through, some of the anniversary
Cultural & Domestic Violence” will offer over 100 events will tie into major fundraising programs to
titles. It will be accompanied by a special fiction raise money for their part of the purchase.
selection for children and teens and a selection of
CHICAGO: Women and Children First, Chicago’s
books to guide men (and other abusers) in halting feminist bookstore, celebrates its 10th anniversary,
their violence. Suggestions for inclusion in this also in November, with a month-long series of pro-
listing are welcome. I will be focusing on women’s grams celebrating the diversity and breadth of Chi-
a an d f o cs um N se a al ol r nl yp r l ee a ss l bs l i aob nto ,ho ek ars n t b iw -o ri ot akh cs i s tf i ,e n m s a cpl ire ei nn ca t eu t ah fro ie cr ts i. a ov na i l aa nbl de cw hi it ldh - c Ha eg lo la’s Hli at ae sr ea r ay n d c o Dm eem nu an i Mty e. t z gB ee rs t s wel il li ln g d o D u rt ec ah d in a gu st ,hor
ren’s titles. members of the Chicago Feminist Writers’ Guild will
Roa — dD ,i a n Cn o B lo uw moma bn i, a T nom a,o rr o Ow h's i W o or l 4d, 4 444 071 8 .S i gn Oal d Wo a r a , ” r Gea wdi en ng d o lt yit nl e d B r “ oW oko sm wen i ll L o inok trin odg u ca et aP e rac ee a d ia nn gd by
Illinois poets, Kate Clinton will perform.... Panels will
include: Chicago Women of Color: Publishing
Anniversaries Ourselves/ Publishing Each Other, Chicago Women in
Theatre, Chicago Women Writing Non-Fiction, Chi-
ATLANTA: Charis Books & More in Atlanta will cele- cago Women Journalists, Alternative Women’s Press:
brate their 15th anniversary in November with their A Chicago History, and Chicago Women Writing Fic-
annual birthday party and sale. They'll be doing tion. The birthday party itself will be all day Novem-
several anniversary-related events during the next ber 12, with birthday cake and 10% off all books and
year. The building they've been in since day #1 may catlenhdaris.s I h opfe osomreo n e pis ovidseot-taepinrg/iretcoyrdin!g O
be put up for sale and there's already talk of the
13 November / December 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:23 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsNow Available! Available Soon!
FEMINIST PERSPECTIVES ON PEACE AND THE SEXUAL LIBERALS AND THE ATTACK
PEACE EDUCATION ON FEMINISM
by Birgit Brock-Utne, University of Oslo, Norway edited by Dorchen Leidholdt, New York, NY, and
and University of Dar es Salaam, Tanzania Janice G. Raymond, University of Massachusetts,
“This book represents a milestone in the developing Amherst
discipline of peace research. It is the first in-depth Filling a long-standing need for a radical feminist
treatment of the field’s core concepts, particularly the collection on sexuality, this volume brings together an
concepts of power and violence, using the tools of extraordinary list of contributors, who attack pro-
feminist analysis. It will help set the agenda for both pornography, pro-incest, and pro-sadomasochist
peace research and peace education for the coming “feminists” as liberals, and challenges the current
deċades. Readers familiar with Brock-Utne’s earlier book fashion of sexuality books.
on Educating for Peace will find rich new material, both Contents: Introduction, Dorchen Leidholdt. Part I: Feminism
theoretical and empirical, that clarifies feminist and liberalism. Liberalism and the death of feminism, Catharine
understandings of peace education and puts an end to A. MacKinnon. Sexual liberalism and sex research in the
v crag itu ie q u eg e n ofe r a pli az ta rt ii ao rn cs h a la b o sou ct i e tt yh e i sf i e bl od t. h B r ro ec lek n- tU let sn se ’ s and gentle, aAn ni n dn d e r t tee hae en t D h pw io m c re pkn .i t n u M. r ay P k, a i r n tS g h Ie l ai : nl a F iaJ sm se uf il ef y r e o y fst s r . iu ncW ct euo srm te , a s n : L - oh T uha it sei e n p g Aa t rr r mi ig a srh tct rh o nan gd . left,
and points the way to the practice of non-sexist science in Taking our eyes off the guys, Sonia Johnson. Family matters,
a non-sexist society.” Ann Jones. Confronting the liberal lies about prostitution, Sarah
— ReE sl ei as re c hB o Aul sd si on cg ia, t ioSe nc ,r e Bt oar uy ld e G r,e n Cer ola ol, r a dIn oternational Peace aW r nepy dr n ot tde hur e. c t “iP v Ba e ar bt yt e I c ll Mh: n ” oT lh o ce ag s i een ,s ,e w P G h yer n le lap i sr Co Cd ou hrc e eat s.i l v e re M . o l t Sib h ee xer ura s al li s om an n. d t T r rh ia ee l p : rn oCe duw us ct to id vy e
a“ alB s poir p g o ri ft o’ s ao p cb to hio m ek i ss mis . t n oSo h t e po dn eol ay es c e a m , s o o ru per e c te ah c ao n ef ea x sn p ta ll uoy r dt ei ic ea fl e s m jo iy n a, i n s t dbu t peace education. T epli qh ob uree an r l ioa p tl gr yi rs e ,m ag p n, Th a w ynJ : ic a sy sn T i hc Boe ef u t G s lJ e e. x r u .udR a ga l Pe y a rm liS tboo e rn r Ik Vd ao. l : s w ’I S,n e“ xGP ut a oh au t le l c ii thn yb ae .”e s B Wt a . g h i an B ein nt ar se t r t w .e s o wt A m o b m eo o nf r e nt i dt ’o sh en fe e nas n dp derm:
She also has excellent ideas on ‘what can be done about pornography, Dorchen Leidholdt. Eroticizing women’s
wit a’, i t ip no gi n t ti on g b e t o r e a lell a s et dh e w p he en nt - u wp o m f eo nr c e as n da n fd e m p io nt ie sn ttials S Wsu ex ob m o r r ed e ni s ’n i ss a t t a Wi non rce i, t i nS inh g e i h Cla e o t l e lJ ere cof ts if e vxr ee u .y a ls T . oa wrR r ae ras n dis g t ea amn c e fe n e, m t sA i, n n iAd str e Sa po r uD at xw h ie so r r nk ofin.
perspectives in general become more prominent in sexuality, Wendy Stock. Sexual liberalism and survivors of sexual
shaping the human condition. She gives us reasons to abuse, Valerie Heller. Part V: The male backlash. The many
hope for more peace, better peace studies and more and faces of backlash, Florence Rush. Liberals, libertarianism, and
better peace — Ie nd J su to ic h ta uat n tio e n G. f” a ol rt u n Pg ea, ce, University of Hawaii at Manoa vat h n ih o eae m wl y ol spi fib h s re o o r b o ma fil a a awar nn ht ods a t t h e ep s rwrt oa e tb cne ol tci u s t nh w tm t rrhe yoen n , t g , p S o u iS r n su an nz oa H gn ar Gn ra .e dp wh CK e i ocra lksp e , .p ae t WJle or oht. m h n eY e no Su s t a o am l nc tea den n ' t bt ci e im vrf igei lg .: h AAt n
1989 220 Pages Softcover ISBN: 0-08-036567-1 US$14.95 liberties, Kathleen A. Lahey. Part VI: Politics and
Hardcover ISBN: 0-08-036568-X US$38.50 possibilities. Be-witching: Re-Calling the archimagical powers of
women, Mary Daly. Not a sentimental journey: Women’s
For rush book orders, call toll free: 1-800-257-5755 8AM to friendships, Janice G. Raymond. Index. About the Editors and
6PM Eastern Standard Time. Contributors.
Prices and publication dates are subject to change without prior notice. SN oo fv te cm ovb ee rr 1989 2 U56 1P 3a .g 9e 5s (( aa pp pp rr oo xx .).)
ISBN: 0-08-037457-3 S $
Hardcover ISBN: 0-08-037458-1 US$32.50 (approx.)
€
14 Volume 12 Number 4
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:23 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
ing and selling of companies on an international
level], it is particularly painful to see it happen in the
publishing industry and to see a quality publishing
company disbanded and subsumed by the cloth divi-
sion of a mass market house. It reflects the worst
An earthquake of sorts hit the E.P. Dutton offices aspects of corporate publishing and, while seeming to
when thirty some Dutton employees, including bode ill for mainstream publishing, it does, once
most of the editorial staff, were dismissed from again, stress the importance of small press and inde-
their jobs on Halloween and were told to vacate p sen ode ln dt , p u bl ais nhe drs t h tat h a ere n le s s l l iik qel uy i t do a b te e b dou .g ht , O
their offices by the end of the week. Staff members
were informed that their medical insurance would
terminate at the end of the year and that severance
pay of one week per year would be accorded to
employees with ten years or less, and two weeks
per year to employees with more than ten years
with Dutton. A small number of editors, those
dealing with best-selling authors, were invited to
stay. OutWrite "90, the first-ever national conference
The dismissals come as the first part of the for lesbian and gay writers and others in the publish-
closing down of the adult division of E.P. Dutton ing and literary field is being organized under the
which, according to announcements from the CEO auspices of Outlook magazine. The planning com-
of its parent company, The Penguin Group, had mittee is looking to draw as diverse a representation
been suffering mounting losses for several years (on as possible from around the United States and from
the adult hardcover side) and could not be made other countries.
economically viable. Reports are conflicting as to The conference is set for March 3-4, 1990. It will
whether the decision to disband Dutton was made be held at the Cathedral Hill Hotel in San Francisco.
by the Penguin Group in this side of the Atlantic or Attendance will be $15 for one day, or $25 for both.
by the British parent corporation in the United The organizers are looking for input from inter-
Kingdom. ested writers, editors, publishers, booksellers, critics
Beginning with the Fall 1990 list, the New Amer- and other potential participants regarding the process
ican Library hardcover list (a fairly recent spin-off of of defining the form and content for the event.
NAL mass market publishing) will be combined with Conference panels, workshops and informal meet-
the remaining Dutton list and will be published as ings will promote the development of the lesbian and
Dutton Books. gay writing community and will help authors, editors,
Dutton’s fledgling lesbian series seems to be publishers and others get to know one another.
among the casualties as the series editor, Carole De The opening plenary session will address the his-
Santi, was among those fired. tory and future of community publishing. Two other
While these kinds of firings and wholesale dis- plenary gatherings are scheduled — one on the topic
banding of non-profitable divisions of multi-national of AIDS and representation and the responsibility of
corporations are fairly common fall-out from the buy- See Writers Conference, page 95
15 November /December 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:23 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
b | [REVISED]
. 7 DISCOUNT SCHEDULE:
' 4-9 copie St 1asn -d 3a r d s cch o3ed pu0l ie e o sn% cl noth e t and paper:
r 10 or more a s5-s9 o corpiets eofd a s in4gle0 t%itle 40%
IN ADDITION, when your order exceeds 50
assorted books, the following discounts apply to
all paperback books, audio and Video
BO N PEO BLE cassettes, and calendars on that order:
BERKELEY, CA 94710 5-9 copies of a title 41%
(415) 549-3030 10 or more copies 42%
Prepaid STOP orders:
1-9 assorted 30%
NEWS FOR THE HOLIDAYS 5-9 copies of a single title. 40%
The Order Department will R
be open on four Saturdays Other recent changes in service:
from 10am—2pm : p m° : A °l p hTaebleeptihcoanl e b aosrkdienrgi n gli s thso, u rins v oaircee s now
° November 18 8am—5pm, Monday—Friday
° December 2, 9, 16
TBhpaonkkpsegoipvlien gw, i lNl o bvee m cbloesre d 23,
and for the week between
Christmas and New Year's.
We will close at noon on
December 22, and re-open at
8:00am January 2, 1990.
We can now accept electronic
orders from stores using the
IBID and Wordstock systems.
Please call the Order Dept. if
you would like to sign up for
this service.
FAX: (415) 848-6322 = Toll Free Ordering & Customer Service: (800) 999-4650
November/December 1989 16 Volume 12 Number 4
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:23 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
By Susan Hawthorne a promise of fees for participating writers covered by
a grant from the Literature Board of the Australia
a Rn ud s s ew lF le h ,m o in B is lit as: c ‘ kA g o p Wie nrs ogon m w t eoh no mk an no aw dks e w W e e o vh reo kl rd y : Mu op n y h e a l E f e x lt psh e ee r s ik n ey not ci ec se . it.’ — Dawn C c do oo m nun am tc ei i dl t; t e ot e fh ; fe i a c ne edf f s o ptr h at ce e o s f au n p dpt h o re dt i sw to ro f im b ue p tn u i ob nlo i f s h n et erh ts we o w rm h ka o sn . a hg ae vm eent
In October 1988 several women, Jocelynne Scutt,
Gillie Gough, Renate Klein and myself, met over
breakfast with Carole Spedding (the originator of the
concept of the Feminist Book Fortnight in the UK) and
Mary Hemmings (from the Women’s Press in London)
to discuss the idea of holding an Australian Feminist
Book Fortnight. Within a month we were writing sub-
missions and canvassing responses from publishers,
booksellers, the media and women. We were over-
whelmed by the enthusiasm for the idea.
But then came the long wait for funding, and an
unsuccessful submission to the Office of the Status of
Women. The wait continued and we began to wonder
whether it would be possible to hold the AFBF in
September 1989 as we had planned.
In April we received funding from the Victorian
Ministry for the Arts which allowed us to employ a
coordinator for the project. Kate Veitch began working
as the National Co-ordinator in May. Four months to
organise a national promotion campaign, produce
40,000 catalogues of two hundred books, and a
fortnight of events right around the country! Im- So why have all these people been able to work
possible? When the enthusiasm and passion of together on something that some people think is a
women is fired, anything is possible! marginal activity run by a marginal group? As Kate
The commitment and energy of many women Veitch has said, “It’s an idea whose time has come.”
have made all those things happen. Our judges who But in addition to that it’s an indication of the level of
read their way through an enormous number of books frustration of women readers who are unable to ob-
in a very short time; the state contacts who have tain the books they want to read because they are out
organised events in each state with no budget except of stock, or understocked or hidden on an unreachable
17 November / December 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:23 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
top shelf at the back of the bookshop. One of the
important aims of the AFBF is to make publishers
aware of the sales potential of books which are written
by feminist writers or which are of interest to feminist
readers (we know we hold up half the sky).
Another aim is to get more feminist books into the
shops and for them to be given promotion (so every-
one else will notice that we hold up half the sky). It’s
not as though publishers are unaware that women
read and buy more books than men, but many pub-
lishers are either unaware of the kinds of books that
sell well to feminists or are unable to get the book-
sellers to order them. It seems that the term ‘feminist
is often the stumbling block. And yet it is feminists
who have led the boom in publishing women’s books
and feminist books over the last two decades.
Many writers who have become household
a names began their publishing careers in some quarter
To order new titles and old favorites lo if sh et dh e w w oro km e wn’ as s m ino v Vem ase hn tt i’. s H Ve ole icn e , G aa r n Me er l’ bs o uf ri nrs et pub-
by Beacon authors such as Mary Daly, Women’s Liberation newspaper. Marge Piercy,
Jean Baker Miller, Ann Petry, Gayl Jones, Marion Bradley, Marilyn French, Zoe Fairbairns, Fay
Rosemary Radford Ruether, Paula Gunn Allen, Weldon, Margaret Drabble are all feminist writers.
Judy Grahn, Starhawk, Merlin Stone, NPu icb hli os lh soer ns , s Du ic h G ra is b b J lea c ak nie d Y Ho iw lae rl yl, MSa cl Ply h e eM i hln aver e , aJ lloyce
and Margot Adler, please contact the Farrar, helped to expand the notion of women’s publishing
Straus & Giroux Sales Department, 19 Union which has made possible the kind and range of books
Square West, New York, NY 10003. now available in Australia. Underlying all this is a
For rush orders, call 1-800-631-8571. vigorous small press industry with publishers such as
(in New Jersey, 201-933-9292 collect) Sea Cruise Books, FAB Press, Sybylla Press, Redress
and Tantrum, who have continued to publish quality
feminist writing which has been made available to the
‘To facilitate the move, Harper and Row public through feminist bookshops in most of the
will accept returns on H&R invoiced orders major cities.
through March 31, 1990. In the first two weeks of September women
Farrar, Straus & Giroux will also honor around the country will be celebrating by reading,
returns. Booksellers with further writing, singing and speaking on every imaginable
topic. From Darwin to Hobart, Wagga to Cairns,
questions may contact Beacon's marketing Women are organising events that focus on a range of
department at 617-742-2110. issues and which allow a huge number of women
— a bw er i t ae br les tt oo hbe e a rh e ta hrd em a .nd women all over Australia will
Events are also being held in rural centres from
Distributed in Canada by Broome to Bernie. Programmes available from your
Beacon O x Pf ro esr sd 2U 5n i Bv ee ar cs oit ny S P trr ee es ts. l wo ic la ll ap lsu ob l i bc e li bb rr oa ar dy c a sa tn d o n s o Am Be C b Roo ak ds ioh o p Ns a. t iI on nf ao l.rmation
Boston, MA 02108 Reprinted with permission from Australian Book
Review, No. 114, September 1989. O
November /December 1989 18
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:23 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
IV Feria Internacional IV Fira Internacional
del Libro Feminista del Llibre Feminista
Del 19 al 23 de junio de 1990. Barcelona Del 19 al 23 de juny de 1990. Barcelona
I. Why an International Feminist The Book Fair finally took on the following outline:
Book Fair t• a cP tr , o f ee xs cs hio an na gl e c ao nn dg r neg ea gt oi to in ats io w n h i pc oh s s iw blo eu l d am m ona gk e b oc oo kn-
The feminist movement, the cultural world, and world professionals;
more specifically the book sector about, on and for • Thematic congregations, open to the general public,
women needs constant encouragement to be able to with exhibitions of books and magazines, around
overcome the great difficulties confronted day in, day which diverse activities could be set up, such as de-
out. A few years ago the idea to organize a debate bates, conferences, round tables, film, theater, video,
around the following principal objectives was raised exhibitions, etc.
by a group of professional women in the book world That's how the story of the Fair began.
in London.
e To situate feminism, women writers, books by \
and about women and their publishers in the main-
stream of the commercial and educational systems,
and to create a presence for them in bookstores and
libraries;
e To affirm our international vocation and open a II. The History of the Fair
forum of exchange, debate and contact to all women The first “International Feminist Book Fair”
from countries outside the European and North was celebrated in London in June of 1984, in Jubilee
American literary environment, especially develop- Hall, Covent Garden. One hundred publishing
ing countries, in order to stimulate an interchange of houses from 22 different countries gathered there.
experience. The fair was visited by 4,500 people, and 50 related
The result was the idea of organizing a week of activities were organized, with a total of $50,000
meetings and activities, With symposia, debates, exhi- being raised.
bitions, workshops, etc. Local support groups were Support for the fair came from all the women’s
created for the future Book Fair to secure all kinds of groups in Great Britain and Ireland, from W.H. Smith
assistance, from personal dedication to spontaneous booksellers, and with economic assistance from the
participation, as well as financial assistance or pri- Women’s Committee of the Greater London Council.
vate or commercial subsidies and funding from inter- A national feminist book promotion, the Feminist
national and national institutes. The participation of Book Fortnight, was organized and has been repeated
all women was a crucial element during the prepara- annually. The rights to publicity of the Fair were
tory period. successfully sold to English television.
19 November /December 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:23 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
women writers participated, and the Fair was visited
Air f_ar e P&a cAkccaogmemodations b py a r 1 t0 i, c0 i0 p0- a1 t5 i, o00 n0 p fe rop ol me. T Lhe ar te i n w a s A ma eh rig ih c a l nev e l a n o df French-
speaking women. For the first time three languages
The organizers of the IV International Book were utilized: English, French and Spanish. The
Fair have offered to organize a travel program that central theme of the Fair was “Strategies of Feminist
would cover airline tickets and accommodations Thought: The Question of Power.” Their support
in Barcelona that would result in considerable came from 16 different government organizations,
savings for many travelers. This would be a Basic and personal donations of some $20,000. They also
Group Program presented in coordination with a received support from all the women’s groups, from
travel agency in Barcelona. To get the discounts religious organizations, and various cultural and
women would have to organize themselves to private entities. Around 180 volunteers worked at
travel together in groups of 10 or more from each the fair.
departure point. Airfare is round-trip. Accommo- For the production of the Fourth International
dations are for seven days. Feminist Book Fair, “LaSal, edicions de les dones”
Departure Point Sp aPnesiestha aUt S 1$17 Pts ( mw eo nm t e n o’ fs p thu eb l i Bsh arer ces) l, o n t ao g ce it th ye r g ow veit rh n m t eh ne t , e n td ho er s Ge- eneral-
New York 108.000 $ 925 itat of Catalonia and the Women’s Institute (Instituto
San Francisco | 130.000 1100 de la Mujer), proposed Barcelona as the site, and it
Montreal 112.000 960 was accepted.
Tokyo 203.000 1735
Athens 60.000 510
Paris 50.350 430
Frankfurt | 53.500 460
f you are interested in this program, please Ill. What We Intend the Fourth Inter-
write to the Fair organizers before December 21, national Feminist Book Fair to Be
1989. These prices require participation by a
minimum of 300 persons. If the Fair organizers The Fair will last a week, and will consist of:
get a strong enough response, they'll proceed e Two professional gatherings, dedicated to contact,
with the plan and will send out a Group Basic negotiation and exchange among book people;
Prodgrame wpith amorre intforumatiron aend . po int s Oof e Work gatherings on topics related to women’s busi-
nesses and professional book women;
e Four thematic gatherings, around the central theme:
The Second International Fair was held in Oslo, Woman as creator, transmitter and consumer of cul-
Norway, in June of 1986, at the University of Blindem ture in the decade of the 90s.
campus. The Fair welcomed 250 publishing houses This topic seems crucial to us to pose the question
and 100 women authors from 40 different countries, of feminine culture or subculture and the role of
with 10,000 titles exhibited and 60 related activities woman in a decade whose roots are sunk in the ebb
organized, and $53,500 were raised. tide of the feminist movement of the 80's, in a Western
Also organized at this time was an international neo-liberal-conservative revolution, in the deteriora-
festival, as a way of providing a setting for the fair in tion of conditions of life in the so-called Third World,
a broader context, which turned out to be a great in the change in the eastern countries, and in the
success. Our Norwegian sisters relied on a great deal devastating ecological deterioration.
of institutional support. Throughout the entire week there will be:
The Third International Fair was held in Mon- ° Exhibits of feminist and women’s books and
trea], Canada, in June of 1988. 250 publishers and 200 magazines;
20 Volume 12 Number 4
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:23 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
e Public contact with women writers, publishers,
translators, etc.; :
e Conferences, debates, round tables, video sessions,
film, theater, exhibitions, etc., all provided by women
from all parts of the world. IV Feria Internacional
del Libro Feminista
< Casa Elizalde
IV. Organization València, 08009 Barcelona
As of the summer of 1988 an initial managing Spain
committee has been set in motion, composed of José
Aubert, Mireia Bofill and Isabel Segura, who have Dear FBN,
created the association LASAL-FIRA and who are I have been wanting to write for weeks, but things
open to all women who want to collaborate in or- were difficult here and lots of work to do (mailings,
ganizing the Fair. At their disposal is all the informa- money, etc.). But I wanted to comment on something
tion from the Fairs in Montreal, Oslo and London in beautiful that happened in August. Through the
terms of addresses, contacts, financial help, etc. Until Women’s Bookstop of Hamilton, Canada (Renee Al-
now the managing committee has been temporarily brecht) we received a check amounting to
utilizing the offices of LaSal, edicions de les dones $2,500 /Canadian, which came from heaven (=from
(València, 226, 08007 Barcelona, tel. 323 17 98). As of somebody who didn’t give her name). I want to thank
the beginning of May it will have its own offices in this woman. I wrote already to Renee, and want to
Casa Elizalde, calle València (Valencia street), 302, propose something to FBN:
Barcelona, tel. 215 97 80. Can FBN coordinate donations from women in
Bank Account: LaSal-Fira 0457/02/0000566-71 of the U.S. to the Fair?
the Caixa de Pensions, calle Catalans, 13-17. 08940 I am also sending you new material that has come
Cornellà, Barcelona, Spain. out this summer, so that you can publish that informa-
At the beginning of May a Support Commission tion and get it out to other women in the U.S. —
will be formed by representatives of the institutions especially the information about groups of women
and entities that support the initiative, such as the traveling together to Spain on cheap rates.
Conselleria de Cultura and the Comissió Interde- Money problems are still difficult, but when I
partamental de la Dona de la Generalitat de Cata- think about FBN helping in this way I get new ener-
lunya, the Institució de les Lletres Catalanes (The gies.
Institute of Catalan Literature), el Bureau of Cul- Best Wishes,
ture, the Servicio de Publicaciones and the Area de María José Aubet
Social Services — Ambit de la Dona — of the city Organizing Committee of the IV Int. Book Fair
government of Barcelona, the Women’s Institute,
the General Directorate of Books of the Ministry of FBN will be glad to coordinate donations from women
Culture, the Diputación de Barcelona, the Publish- in the U.S. to the bookfair. Send us your check (made out to
ers Guild, the Association of Catalan Language FBN and clearly marked “donation for the Barcelona Fem-
Publishers, the Catalan Writers Association, the inist Book Fair” and we'll do the currency conversion and
Collegiate Association of Writers, the Coordinator send a list of who donated what and their addresses along
of Women’s Bookstores... with the contributions. Money is definately needed and we
We hope that at the beginning of May a support who live in this richest of countries (unwealthy though we
committee will begin to function with the participa- may be) need to share some of the resources that we have.
tion of women’s groups as well as individual women Banking information for those of you who wish to send
who support the project. contributions directly: The Book Fair's bank account is:
From the IV Fera Internacional del Libro Feminista laSal-Fira 0457/02/0000566-71. Caixa de Pensions (calle-
orguanizinng comkmittene, Baorcelonwa Spainn. Tra.nsl ator O Catalans, 13-17. 08940 Cornellà. Barcelona. Spain).
Any financial help will be very welcome. O
21 November /December 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:23 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsSocial Feminism Hysteria from The Other Side of
pB ry o v N ocA aO tiM veI nB eL wA C K in. t eB rl pa rc ek t a to if of ne r s o f a Freud to Lacan the Story
feminism, which emphasizes Body and Language in Structures and Strategies of
women’s distinctive experiences Psychoanalysis Contemporary Feminist
and values. She presents rich By MONIQUE DAVID-MÉNARD. Narratives
historical accounts of three Translated by Catherine Porter. By MOLLY HITE. Hite asserts that
influential women’s organizations With a Foreword by Ned Lukacher. a number of the most influential
in the United States, England, and Seeking to redefine the problem- women writing contemporary
France. $47.50 cloth, $12.95 paper atic relation of language and the fiction—notably Jean Rhys, Doris
body, Monique David-Ménard here Lessing, Alice Walker, and
New Islands and explores and revises the major Margaret Atwood—are attempting
Other Stories psychoanalytic theories of hysteria. innovations in narrative form that
$37.50 cloth, $12.95 paper are more radical in their implica-
By MARÍA LUISA BOMBAL. With tions than the dominant modes of
a Preface by Jorge Luis Borges. New Intellectual Women fictional experimentation charac-
in paper! “Evocative, haunting and Victorian terized as postmodernist. $23.95
stories by a Chilean writer whose
work ..….was rich in its effects, Patriarchy Women and the
fan outi nc dip a it nin g s o t h me u cm h a g oi fc tr oe dal ai ysm ’s Latin Harriet Martineau, Elizabeth Public Sphere in
American fiction.”—New York Times Barrett Browning, George Eliot
Book Review. $6.95 paper B “Ty h eD E bIR ooD kR ’sE bD rA ilV liI aD n. c eN e liw es in in p ia tp ser! t Fh re e nA cg he o Rf e vth oe lution
E a h tF P n id e vd rie s et e y em d J oa c U fr i bh D e n y tI To h si H i es a R x tm In sC eR ceHa O on A pl O ey R F e a .D s s an s naG i yFd ds aE s t L h b D re rr eS epT e ad r dE e tIN s he n ot fa- ww w Sc sc i haa ioo olr l o nm m le w sf i e e m asu n n ltl f tp’ al s o e y nl w rri dc t ra c e at iao x t b ni ln o elt e d rs ns s i s ifs d d. Sua e e an tor I nud n fe t dr d t h r e e i t e a ln h ld es ei t c Gws st u tc e ih oudu l r be a is kd e l es si ri to s tWh c on /ou fes ofo s m- r Eo e ef lt n ai i- ne i p os i oB nnt fp oy u s t le h ii n n t g e P J n ieh ecsdiO ntt sn u .s nA d ”g . yu s” —N yp— o h L lf vC yyB a agh np . e n o no n n idiL t a ec eh r .A e w H e . N a Ls un eD d a“ nas nLE n t daS ,da n . e n sd U d e“ e nxF s a ici sb v l sil h tr e ee i ra rid nl s s tl g ii s ta w yn tpi tt hah t ah t
feminist psychoanalytic criticism Susan Gubar as an essential study the French Revolution relegated
today. Contributors include Jane of nineteenth-century women women to the home and created a
Gallop, Barbara Johnson, Mary writers.”—Barry V. Qualls, Rutgers rigidly gendered, essentially male,
Poovey, and Jacqueline Rose. University. $27.50 cloth, $9.95 bourgeois public sphere. $31.95
$42.50 cloth, $12.95 paper paper cloth, $10.95 paper
Cornell
University
Press
124 Roberts Place
Ithaca, NY 14850
Order toll-free 800-666-2211
Volume 12 Number 4
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:23 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
By Kris Hoover titles on violence against women, politics, feminist
theory, poetry and fiction (especially reprints of 19th
Is it worthwhile to carry university press books? and early 20th century women’s novels, such as Zora
Like anything else you sel], it depends on who comes Neale Hurston’s books published by Illinois). The
into your store and who might come in if you did a topic of reproductive freedom has made a come-back
few things differently (place an ad in a campus paper, this year. As with the trade houses, though, there isn't
sell books at a conference, etc.). Obviously, university much on U.S. women of color or lesbians, but there are
press books are written mainly for teachers, students some notable exceptions. Some editors have taken
and anyone with an intellectual bent who isn't their presses’ mission to publish regional books to
completely burned out on traditional education. mean they should publish more on Black, Hispanic,
Many feminists do find good information and some Asian and American Indian women. Illinois found a
good entertainment in them. strong seller in Lesbian Psychologies, Texas re-
AN cently published the first non-homophobic bio-
graphy of anthropologist Ruth Benedict, and Olga
Broumas’ lesbian poetry continues to do well for
Yale. Pergamon’s Athene series contains some ex-
University press books average about $12.95 in cellent lesbian-feminist theory. There are interest-
paperback. If you have a market, or can create one, ing, quirky subjects, too, like the life of a lesbian nun
y tho ev m'll wfi in lld c t oh ma pt l ac inus t ao bm ouer t s t w heh o p ra ir ce e , u bse ud t t bo u y b u sy tain ckg s of i En . M Re . n a Bis rsa on nce n eIt ra ’l sy ( WOx ef aor vd e) , oan fd Wsur op mris ee ns, l (ik Ine diana) and
five at a time. People who don't see scholarly books as other modern feminist fiction.
tools of their trade or intellectual nourishment will
need a lot of convincing. Therefore, if you don’t have Fn
some women’s studies audience to help you get a
market rolling, you'll have to be very choosy and
know your books well enough to recommend them to University presses sell more trade-oriented titles
particular customers. than they used to, even five years ago. Many have
Women’s history, biography and literary criti- found that they need the money, and publishing
cism are the largest categories of titles. Psychology, mergers and mass-market strategies have made room
regional books and books about women in other coun- in the trade “midlist.” Many of these so-called “seri-
tries and cultures (usually written by U.S. anthropol- ous works of nonfiction,” selling 2,000 - 10,000 copies,
ogists, but sometimes by the women themselves) are would have been published by a unit of Random
also common in university press lists. You'll also see House or Macmillan a few years ago but now turn up
23 November / December 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:23 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
on California. At the same time, there are enough titles each season, include Northeastern, Minnesota,
feminists working at university presses and enough Nebraska and Harvard. Paying attention to some of
consciousness of the “women’s market” that most the smaller presses will also protect you from abrupt
university presses have some kind of self-declared changes in the largest publishers’ programs. About
feminist series. Recently, it’s been interesting to see four years ago, Oxford had the best trade-oriented list
British feminist sociology published in England by around —the best bio of Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Car-
trade presses appearing here on universities roll Smith-Rosenberg’s landmark essays on women’s
instead. and lesbian history, Gerda Lerner’s Creation of Patri-
archy, which made $1200 for Amazon at a single read-
ing...then suddenly all I got for review was a book
D about tennis stars in the 1920s. Oxfordďd’s list seems to
be growing again, but I was glad I had many other
Do I have to get an account with every little suppliers.
press? Wel], yes and no. You could start with those in
your region and a half dozen of the largest. How do I decide what is too specialized and what
Wholesalers, especially Gordon’s in Colorado, carry will sell? How general the subject is, whether you've
some of the most trade-oriented titles when they're heard of the author, and any obvious fit with your
new, but they sometimes surprise you with short dis- regular customers’ interests (lesbian studies, Black
counts. I've found that only the presses themselves are women’s studies, your part of the country, a section
steady sources and that their sales reps are generally that sells especially well for you like psychology or
helpful enough to makeit worth dealing directly. Most spirituality) — the same strategies you use with the
presses do have reps or work with a consortium to Norton and Harper catalogs will work for university
cover the U.S. You can also work directly with presses’ presses. Whole books by the same author generally do
sales managers (more than a few are feminist, and better than collections of papers. Trade-like covers
most at least know what feminist bookstores sell). help sales, as do ad budgets; covers displaying the
Write the presses you're interested in for catalogs and Prentice-Hall approach to typography can be duds
account information and also ask for any recent women’s even if the content is brilliant and witty. The best way
studies direct mail pieces they've done. These will de- to get familiar with academic authors and their books
scribe the backlist titles for you. Amazon in Minneapolis is to read Women’s Review of Books. Publishers’ ads in
currently deals directly with about 70 university presses FBN and WRB are not as informative, but they're more
— write me c/o FBN if you want a list. timely. Another post-publication source is my column
The presses with the longest lists of titles for in FBN. In the past, I've tried to screen almost all the
feminist stores are Yale, Indiana, Rutgers and Chicago. university press catalogs for you, but the number of
Yale is the most trade-oriented (if you can sell Beacon titles has gotten out of hand (which is good news,
and Pantheon, you can probably sell Yale), and Chi- mostly). I'll be telling you about the books I thought
cago is the most traditionally academic in tone and were marvelous or awful and those somewhere in
subject matter. Presses also develop specialties you'll between that you could probably sell at least three of.
want to be aware of. For instance, Temple, founded as
a “working men’s academy,” retains a progressive What about ordering? Make sure you get a trade
initiative in its publishing program, specializing in discount! I can think of exactly two university press
books on labor history, women of color, lesbians, dis- books that I like well enough to take the 20% discount
ability rights, and community organizing. Stanford and mark the price up $3. Generally, you'll sign up for
has books on East Asian women; Rutgers has a good an “agency account.” This means you swear you
list of Black women’s fiction; Columbia and NYU have aren't a textbook seller that makes money reselling the
psychology and lit crit; and so forth. If you're willing books, and the press will send you all, or almost all,
to invest the time, don’t ignore the smaller presses: their titles at at least 40%. A few presses, MIT and
Michigan, Tennessee and Oklahoma to name a few. Greenwood, for example, have outlandish require-
Medium-sized presses, publishing about four feminist See Buying, page 94
24
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:23 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
ai
l u
è|
By Susan Harlow mothers (Barbara Ankeny, Joanna Hill, Carol Orr,
Nancy Essig, and Joyce Kachergis) concentrated on
Women in Scholarly Publishing (WISP) celebrated the task of founding WISP.
i ot fs tt hen e t h A s sa on cn iaiv tie or ns a r oy f i An m J eru in ce a n 1 9 U8 n9 i v a et r s it th ye Pa rn en ssu ea sl meeting n
(AAUP). In her address to the membership, outgoing rR
president Kate Torrey read the words of Florence Howe,
cofounder and director of the Feminist Press, “One can- The five targeted four mutual concerns for WISP
not, as a rule, simply add new perspectives without members to discuss in an ongoing way: opportunities
changing traditional ways of thinking.” for advancement for women in scholarly publishing,
As Torrey pointed out, Howe was talking about attitudes in scholarly publishing toward women, net-
the importance and impact of integrating women’s working for mutual assistance, and forming an on-
studies into all parts of the curriculum, but the idea going group to provide structure for that mutual
can be applied equally well to the activities of assistance.
Women in Scholarly Publishing over the past de- WISP had its first meeting that year with 40-50
cade. WISP has moved beyond the simple “add people signing up in Utah to work for WISP. The
women and stir” concept. It has become a vital and strength of the organization was determined to be
important presence, and has, if nothing else, created its membership by individuals...its grass roots na-
an awareness of new ideas. ture, not institutional members as was the case
within the AAUP.
A Today, WISP has a powerful slate of officers and
advisory board members, each of whom is committed
to expanding the professional horizons of women in
WISP’s origins run back to 1979 when it was scholarly and university press publishing.
announced that the annual meeting of the AAUP It has a strong political focus on issues that relate
would be held in Salt Lake City, Utah — a state that directly to women’s salaries and benefits, career
had voted against ratifying the Equal Rights Amend- development options, and representation.
ment. Several, soon to be founding mothers, sug- WISP has established a Career Development
gested that the forthcoming meeting would provide Fund with money contributed by members’ dues and
an occasion for the women in AAUP to organize, if not the financial aid of WISP supporters and friends.
to protest meeting in a non-ERA state. WISP members can apply for these funds to attend
Recognizing that organizing within the very con- workshops, seminars and other meetings aimed at
servative structure of the AAUP would not allow the professional development in scholarly publishing.
voices of a few women to be heard the five founding The CDF, established in 1987, underscores WISP’s
Volume 12 Number 4 November / December 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:23 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
belief in the power of women helping women to help
themselves.
WOMAN BETWEEN MIRRORS WISP has a strong commitment to work with the
AAUP to promote Association-wide support for an
By Helena Parente Cunha unbiased study of women’s positions and salaries,
Translated by Fred P. Ellison and to bring about a series of management and
and Naomi Lindstrom skills-oriented workshops geared to the particular
Woman between Mirrors is Parente Cunha’s award- needs of women.
winning novel that explores new directions in A £.
feminist thought and novelistic construction.
Using an unusual narrative technique, and incor-
porating African elements as symbols of libera-
tion, she embraces Brazil’s African heritage and WISP has a Membership Directory, a Directory of
offers a satisfying work of literary art. Freelancers, a quarterly newsletter full of interesting
$18.95 cloth $8.95 paper and useful news, and an expanded schedule of panels
CERTIFICATE OF ABSENCE and seminars at regional AAUP meetings and at major
academic conferences.
wB Ty ir t ha S ny tsl hv l eaia t e aM ud to hl l obo ry y Daniel Balderston nation N alo , oo ft fh ee rr s o wrg oman eiz na t i io nn , s c p hu ob lal ric l y o r p u p br lii sv ha it ne g, l co lc ea al r e ror
access to change in a conservative profession. No
The first novel by Argentinian scholar-critic Mol- other organization is more committed to correcting
loy, Certificate of Absence is a rare work by a Latin the long-standing imbalances that inhibit women’s
American woman that successfully uses self- full professional development in scholarly publishing.
portrayal in its text in a way that opens a new And no other organization exists to support the goal
w ini nn od vo aw ti v o en t rw eo am tmen en’s t e ox fp e r thie en irce s r ea ln atd i o no sf hf ie pr ss . an and principle of equity for women on all levels and in
$18.95 cloth $7.95 paper all areas of scholarly publishing.
WISP is a feminist organization made up of mem-
Ruth Benedict bers committed to feminist goals and ideals. The mem-
Stranger in This Land bership of WISP is open to all women who work in
By Margaret M. Caffrey scholarly or university press publishing or in auxili-
ary, related professions and to those men in these
“ ab. o . u t . Bw ee n e df ii cn ta ’l sl y f eh mav ine is ma b ao no dk , t ih na t f am cta ,k e cs e l en bo r a tb eo snes professions who actively support the principles of
it. Ruth Benedict has for too long been neglected equal rights and equal opportunity for women.
as one of our most significant 20th century fore- There is a renewed sense of purpose as WISP
mothers...” —New Direction for Women begins its second decade. In my mind, that purpose is
“In this impassioned, masterful biography, Caf- essentially the same today as it was ten years ago,
frey . . . treats Benedict’ life as an exhilarating because progress has been slow and will continue to
intellectual adventure.” be slow. The kinds of changes WISP seeks are attitudi-
—Publishers Weekly nal as well as practical, but when WISP achieves them,
$24.95 cloth they will be permanent.
Susan Harlow is the marketing manager at the Uni-
versity of Utah Press. Before joining University of Utah
Q U—niversity — of Texas Press Press, she was the marketing manager at Fulcrum and has
Box 7819 Austin, Texas 78713 also worked with a small New Age Press, a specialized press
1(800)252-3206 that published books on Sherlock Holmes, and Indiana Uni-
versity Press and is currently serving as fundraiser for
WISP. She had the good fortune (?) to be changing planes
at the San Francisco Airport during the earthquake. O
November /December 1989 26 Volume 12 Number 4
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:23 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Compiled by Carol Seajay in Britain. An excellent addition to the discussion.
$11.95 pb 1-85327-023-7.
We're doing a special “Academic and Edu-
cational Presses” column this issue to catch those 68, "78, 88: From Women’s Liberation to Femi-
presses that tend to fall between the cracks. They nism edited by Amanda Sebestyen is a multi-sided
aren't university presses and don’t get university sup- oral history in the finest Women’s Liberation tradition.
port, nor do they really fall into our small press Thirty-five feminists from different classes, ethnic and
column. Many of the following presses publish trade cultural backgrounds, and political directions write
editions (available at trade discounts) of books that about their work, their debates, their campaigns, the
can sell well in feminist bookstores. Some publish changes in their personal lives and the changes in “the
primarily to an academic market but have the oc- movement” over twenty years. A good look at where
casional book that will be of interest to feminist read- we've heen, what we've lost and gained and where we're
ers. Others have real gems hidden away under the going. $11.95 pb, 1-85327-022-9. Both books have confus-
piles of dusty tombs. If you aren't already familiar ingly similar covers that, after some looking, turn out to
with these presses, write for complete catalogs. We've be abstracted women’s symbols. A great near-miss, but
mentioned only a few of the most interesting and most well worth pointing out to favorite customers. Published
recent publications of the following presses. in the U.K. by Prism Press, distributed in the U.S. by
Avery Publishing, 350 Thorens Ave., Garden City Park
Avery Publishing Group has two titles of specific NY 11040. 516-741-2155. 40% for 2-24. Dist. by BP, PGW,
interest to feminist bookstores. Gail Chester (co-editor New Leaf, Ingram.
of In Other Words: Writing as a Feminist, with Sigrid <
Nielsen) and Julienne Dickey, the editors of Feminism |
and Censorship: The Current Debate consider the It —
debate from several angles while concluding that their
editorial slant has been strongly colored by their ex- The Minnesota Historical Society Press has a
perience in Britain with the passage of Clause 28 and number of fine books on women. The latest addition
their concern for the long term effects of the passage to their collection is The Checkered Years: A Bonanza
of any legislation affecting the representation of sexu- Farm Diary, 1884-88 by Mary Dodge Woodward,
ality in the current political climate. Articles also con- edited by Mary Boynton Cowdry. Woodward wasa 56
sider the ways that feminists sometimes operate to year old widow when she moved to Wisconsin with
suppress each others’ ideas. Contributors include her two grown sons and a daughter to a 1,500 acre
both British and American women. Both editors have bonanza wheat farm in the Dakota Territory. For five
a long history of feminist and small press publishing years she recorded the yearly cycle of her farming and
27 November /December 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:23 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
gardening, the phenomenon of mirages on the plains,
the awesome blizzard of 1888, her reliance on her
family and her close relationship with her daughter.
Feminist Theory and It’s a valuable record of a frontier woman's life. The
Politics Series Homestead Act of 1862 allowed single women to ac-
quire 160 acres of land if they lived on the land and
Virginia Held and cultivated it for 5 years. Many women did — 12% of
Alison Jaggar, editors the homesteaders were women and a higher percent-
age of women “proved up” and won title to their land
Rocking the Ship of State than did men. $8.95 pb, 0-87351-237-5. 40% for 2-24
Toward a Feminist Peace Politics books.
Adrienne E. Harris and Ynestra MHS's newest title is One Woman’s War: Letters
King, eds. Home from the Women’s Army Corp 1944-1946 by
“The intellectual richness and political urgency of Anne Bosanko Green, a collection of letters filled with
this writing combine to make a fresh, forceful detail about life in the WAC, travelling all over the U.S.
|I | calauimt h oon r o u ro fat te nTtihone.” =B —on Jdesss ic ao Bfe n jaLmoinv,e during the war to working in hospitals. “Almost a
coming-of-age novel,” says the publisher. $22.50 cl.
Sept. 1989 • 301 pp. * $39.50 (hc) °$16.95 (pb) For more information on MHS publications, see FBN
Reproducing the World Volume 10 Number 4 (Dec. 81) that included a feature
Essays in Feminist Theory o Mn H SM H tiS t l ep s r e as rs e. M alsH oS , d i6 s9 t0 r i bC ue td ea dr bS yt ., B aS kt. e r P a au nl d M TN ay l5 o5 r1 .01.
|| Mary O'Brien
|| Feb. 1989 • 306 pp. * $34.50 (hc) • $13.95 (pb) McFarland & Company published Getting Pub-
Sexual Democracy l dis ih se cd i p i ln i n W arom y en P’s r oSt fu ed sie ss i: o nA an l I n Dte er vn ea lt oio pn mal, e nIn tt er G- uide
Women, Oppression, and Revolution Mainly for Women by Helen Rippier Wheeler this
Ann Ferguson July, a book that may be worth its weight in gold to
May 1990 • ca. 256 pp. * $38 (hc) $15.95 (pb) academics in your community. Order it if you can sell
it — you'll make friends forever with this one. $19.95
pb (I did say its weight in gold....), 0-89950-400-0. Read
OF Feminist Thought All Your Life: A Subject Guide to Fiction by Barbara
A Comprehensive Introduction Kerr Davis is an unexpectedly useful book for feminist
Rosemarie Tong booksellers and teachers of literature. Topics include
“It is accessible, it is informed and balanced, and it female adolescence, mid-life crisis (for both men and
is welcome!” — Nancy Goldberger, women), alcohol and drug abuse (all the recom-
co-author, Women’s Ways of Knowing mended books in this category are, sadly by/about
: Jan. 1989 • 305 PP. * $41.95 (hc) °$14.95 (pb) men), women alone, sisters, alternative families,
female friendships (including The Magnificent Spin-
O Feminist Research Methods ster), rape, poverty, and utopia. Each section ends with
Readings from the Social Sciences provocative and insightful discussion questions.
Joyce McCarl Nielsen, ed. | $24.95 cl, 0-89950-370-5.
_ Feb. 1990 © ca. * 262 pp. * $38.50 (hc) $16.95 (pb) 28640. McFarland & Company, Box 611, Jefferson NC
Westview Press Scarecrow Press has Lesbianism: An Annotated
5500 nue • Boulder, CO 80301 • Bibliography and Guide to the Literature: 1976-1986
ne e S 444-3541 • FAX (303) 449-3356 by Dolores J. Maggiore, a bibliography that gathers
books, pamphlets and articles on a range of subjects:
November /December 1989 28
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:23 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
The Individual Lesbian, Minorities Within a Minority ing the Ship of State: Toward a Feminist Peace
(lesbians of color/third world lesbians, aging, youth, Politics edited by Adrienne Harris and Ynestra King,
differently-abled lesbians, rural lesbians, lesbians in another title in the Feminist Theory series, looks at the
prison), Lesbian Families (family or orientation, peace movement through the prism of modern femi-
lesbian couples, parenting), Oppression, Health, and nism and advocates for a specifically feminist peace
Resources. Hopefully it will be updated regularly. politic. It considers the relationships of anti-racism
$18.50 c], 0-8108-2048-X. !55% bookstore discount, pre- work, anti-sexism work and the peace movement,
paid, no postage charge. Scarecrow Press, 52 Liberty looks at militarism, the experiences of women in ear-
St., PO Box 4167, Metuchen NJ 08840. lier peace movements and contemporary feminist ac-
tions such as Greenham Common and the Seneca
Yd like to strongly recommend several annotated Peace camp. $16.95 pb, 0-8133- 0711-2.
bibliographies from Garland Publishing Company, I was a bit confused by Scholarly Writing &
but the price tag on these hardcover books reduces Publishing: Issues, Problems and Solutions edited
their salability to almost nothing. Japanese Women by Mary Frank Fox. What isn’t clear from the cover is
Writers in English Translation: An Annotated that the book was a project of the Research and Publi-
Bibliography by Claire Zebroski Mamola is a cations Committee of Sociologists for Women in
wonderful resource, but at $52.00 cl, 0-8240-3048-6, it Society, all the articles are by women and are oriented
isn't going to be a big seller. The same is true of toward helping women around the barriers to publi-
Women’s Diaries, Journals, and Letters: An Anno- cation and academic success. While academically
tated Bibliography by Cheryl Cline ($70.00 cl, 700 pp., geared, women not working in academic spheres
0-8240-6637-5, and American Women’s Magazines: would find the sections on “Solving A Work Problem”
An Annotated Historical Guide by Nancy K. Hum- (on forming a support group or working with a part-
phreys which includes an excellent section referring ner) and “The Lone Scholar Myth” to be useful. I
to what seems like everything written about feminist presume that the bland cover and title were intended
periodicals. $40 cl, 300 pp., 0-8240-7543-9. Garland to make the book appeal to academic writers who are
Publishing, 136 Madison Ave., NY NY 10016. not women — but I’m concerned that the readers for
whom it was written will miss it. $19.50 pb (!), 0-8133-
Westview Press is a classic example of a press 0938-X.
publishing academically oriented work. Their
women’s studies list has grown considerably over the AA
last few years, including a new series in Feminist
Theory and Politics. They've also had a long-standing
commitment to publishing on Third World issues, Earlier titles from Westview include Poor
including a series on Women in Development. Women, Powerful Men: America’s Great Experi-
Recent titles include: Feminist Thought: A Com- ment in Family Planning by Martha C. Ward, a dis-
prehensive Introduction by Rosemarie Tong, a text turbing and thrilling social history that looks at why
that “treats all views with respect and encourages a particular program (The Louisiana Family Health
students to think critically and sympathetically about Foundation) seemed to destruct from within; Ginger
a wide range of views that have a direct relevance to and Salt: Yemeni Jewish Women in an Israeli Town
their own lives” and includes discussion of work by by Lisa Gilad, a study of two generations of Yemini
feminist theorists ranging from Mary Wollstonecraft Jewish women — the generation that immigrated
to Charlotte Bunch to Adrienne Rich to Juliet Mitchell from Yemen shortly after the creation of the state of
to Hélène Cixous. $14.95 pb, 0-8133-0428-8. Repro- Israel and their Israeli-born daughters; Patriarch and
ducing the World by Mary O’Brien, a title in the Class: African Women in the Home and the Work-
Feminist Theory and Politics series, considers the new force; Women in Third World Development; Rural
reproductive technologies, critiques the patriarchy, Women and State Policy: Feminist Perspectives on
and applies feminist theory to understanding health Latin American Agricultural Development and
and education issues. $13.95 pb, 0-8133-0760-0. Rock- Women and Farming: Changing Roles, Changing
29 November / December 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:23 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Structures. Write or call Miriam Gilbert for West- Page, examines the dilemmas of a woman who gave
view’s catalog for the rest of their list. up a high-flying diplomatic career to marry her assis-
Westview has recently revised its terms with an tant when she is offered a new posting in another
eye to increasing their sales to trade bookstores. country and must, once again, choose between
They're now offering 40% discount for 3-10 copies, husband and career (£4.50 pb, 0-413-61430-1). Me-
42% for 11-20 copies, and 43% for 21+. Westview Press, thuen also offers The Passionate Shepherdess: Aphra
5500 Central Avenue, Boulder CO 80301. 303-444- Behn 1640-89, a biography by Maureen Duffy (That’s
3541. How It Was and The Microcosm), $15.94 pb, 0- 413-
17650-9.
Heinemann offers 40% discount on trade books.
n. For a complete listing of their women’s titles contact
Lisa Barnett, Heinemann Educational Books, 70 Court
Heinemann Educational publishes several series St., Portsmouth NH 03801.
that include many excellent books by women from the
Third World. This December Heinemann will publish Lyceum Books is a fledgling publishing house
Her True-True Name, a wonderful anthology of writ- run by publishing professionals who have flown the
ings by Caribbean women edited by Pamela Mordecai conglomerate coop. Two of their books may be of
and Betty Wilson that will introduce the writing of interest to feminist bookstores: Women and Social
Caribbean women to a much wider audience and will Work: Towards a Woman-Centered Practice by Jalna
stimulate interest in Caribbean women writers’ Hanmer and Daphne Stratham and Women and
works. Contributors include Michelle Cliff, Rosa Guy, Marriage in 19th Century England by Joan Perkin.
Jamaica Kincaid, Beryl Gilroy, Joan Riley, Olive Senior, Women and Social Work examines what women so-
Maryse Condé, Paule Marshall and many others cial workers have in common with women clients and
whose work has not received adequate distribution what divides them, with the goal of helping social
and readership in the U.S. It’s truly a ground-breaking workers aid the ever-increasing number of single
work and the effects of its publication will be felt for female heads of households who become dependent
years to come. $7.95 pb, 0-435-98906-5. on the state and advocates direct action by women to
Heinemann also has a new Beryl Gilroy novel, change governmental policies that are detrimental to
Boy-Sandwich ("I was the filling and they were the women’s interests. It includes proposals for a code of
slices of bread,") a sequel to Gilroy's excellent Frangi- practice for non-sexist women-centered social work
pani House. In Boy-Sandwich Gilroy writes about the that has been extremely well received by social work
life of a Black child in present-day London and the practitioners. $13 pb, 0-925065-08-0. Women and
events that follow after his grandparents are evicted Marriage “is a brightly written history of how Vic-
to a “home” for the elderly... $7.50 pb, 0-435-98810-7. torian women in all stations of life, with few desirable
Other recent Heinemann releases include Diplomatic alternatives to marriage, managed to endure or cir-
Wives by Louise Page ($8.95 pb, 0-413-61430-1) and cumvent the many legal and social restraints of matri-
The Gut Girls, a play by Sara Daniels set in the gutting mony.” It also considers the differing laws and
sheds of the slaughterhouse at the Cattle Market in standards for poor and rich women. $14.95 pb, 0-
Victorian England that shows how the lives of the 925065-16-1; $25.95 cl, 0-925065-8. Lyceum usually
“girls” are changed when their work is made illegal. offers a 20% discount, but ask for the 30% discount
$6.95 pb, 0-413-61670-3. they recently offered in a special mailing to feminist
Books of interest from the Methuen side of the bookstores ordering 2 or more titles. Lyceum Books,
Heinemann conglomerate include: Gay Sweatshop: 224 S. Michigan Ave., Chicago IL 60604. 312-347-
Four Plays and a Company, a brief profile of London's 2660.
gay and lesbian theatre group and four plays, includ-
ing Twice Over by Black lesbian writer Jackie Kay and Guilford Publications is the publisher of the jour-
The Dear Love of Comrades by Noël Greig ($14.95 pb, nal Response to the Victimization of Women & Children, a
0-413- 61380-1). Diplomatic Wives, a play by Louise journal of the Center for Women Policy Studies. The
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:23 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
issue I saw was a well-designed, 32 page issue focus-
ing on campus violence. Articles looked at the prob-
lem of awareness, at counseling Victims and
Perpetrators of campus violence, at networking as an
approach to advocacy, at a campus sexual assault 4 Holding the Line: Women in the Great
awareness program, at nursing networks on violence A br yi z o Bn aa r b M ari an e K iS nt gr sik ole v eo rf 1983
against women, at a program to prevent battering of
pregnant students, at the National Gay and Lesbian o“ fT h i hs e r i os i, c b wey omon ed n , a l sl o, a o f tw eo nm e tn h’ es mst eo ar sy u: r e t h oe f s ot ur ruggle
Task Force campus project, at books dealing with the nation.”—Margaret Randall
topic, and other resources. Guilford Press would be “Kingsolver captures the history, the irony, and
wha op mp ey n ’st o b ose on kd st o s ra em s p ale s ac o p wie as y o tf o t ih ne c r ejo asu er n aa wl a t ro eness t —he D h eu n m 2ia s 2n e 8 d i Gg pn i ai at gy r ed ,in i n pa a h st oo try o n sot e c y te it o nended.”
of the journal. If you have a place to display sample ISBN 0-87546-156-5 Paper $10.95
c Go up ii le fs o, r dw r Pi ute b l it co at iM ona sr ,i a n 72 R So pb ri in ns go n , S t .M , a Nrk Ye t i Nn Yg 1D 0i 0r 1ec 2t .or, 4 B we it tw he e an n t ih ne t r H odil uls c t ia on nd b t yh e D aS ve ia d b My o nK t. gB o. m G ei rl yden,
A New Perspective: Southern Women from “ nB oe t ow te he en r t nh oe v e lH il ol fs tan hd e et rh ae .S e .a , . a is l l up mer inh aa tp es s the
the Civil War to Civil Rights is a publication of the contradictions facing the rank-and-file of the
Virginia Foundation. Articles by nationally known movement.” —Mary Jo Buhle
feminist scholars consider the history of women’s 568 pages Literature of American Labor Series
rights in the South; southern women and work; the ISBN 0-87546-154-9 Paper $13.95
public dimensions of “private” life; and women in 4 A Secretary and a Cook: Challenging
music, visual and literary arts. $10.00 pb, 90 pp, Women’s Wages in the Courts of the United
perfect bound. $6.75 for 15+, but ask for standard States and Great Britain by Steven L. Willborn
b f 22o o 9o rk 0 3s tt .ho er e H t ue mrm ans i t i( e4 s0 ,% 1 9f 3o 9r I5 v+ y) . RV di .r ,g i Cn hia a r lF oo tu tn esd va it li lo en VA “ w o T u ıh o i t s r 2 t b 5Eho 6o u k r a pow d p ai vl gl e o . eb ”c se a — to e Af s l k i e cie enn i Hn tt h .e r e e Cs t oU t oo . k S c .,o m p Car aa nbl ae da, and through-
ISBN 0-87546-158-1 Paper $14.95
Mrs. Wheeler Goes to Washington (by her
AVAILABLE FROM INLAND AND GORDON’S
daughter) Elizabeth Wheeler Colman is the unex- For further information, please call 607/255-3061.
pected tale of “the woman behind the man” — in this
case, behind Senator Burton Wheeler. It describes her with a roundtable debate that takes up the central
tremendous strength of character, her force as the theoretical issues raised throughout the book. The book
Senator's “moral compass” insisting that he hold fast is part of Monthly Review's New Feminist Library series
to his ideals, her suffrage work with Jeannette Rankin, that is dedicated to the memory of Sara Eisenstein. $18.00
$h 1e 9r . 9 5o p p co l.s i t 4i 0o %n fto o r W 6W -2 4 .I I . F a$ l9 co.9 n5 Pp rb e, s s ,0 - 9 P3 O7 9 5 B9 o- x7 9 1-0 7; 18, p Wb e, s t0 - 28 75 t3 h4 5 - S7 t7 .,1 - 9 N; Y $ 3 N6 Y c l 1. 0 0M 01o .n t Bh Ply & R e Iv Ni .ew Press, 122
Helena MT 59624. Dist. by B&T, Gordons.
A Kumarian Press primarily publishes books for
people working in development with only a few
books such as Change in an African Village: Kefa
Speaks by Elise Skjønsberg that are of interest to a
Promissory Notes: Women in the Transition to general reader. Change seems important in two ways:
Socialism edited by Sonia Kruks, Rayna Rapp and first as a non-fiction addition to international sections,
Marilyn B. Young looks at theory and the experience and secondly as an example of the different quality of
of women and women’s lives under socialism in a work and reporting that comes from women (femi-
variety of situations: The USSR, China, Cuba, Eastern nist) anthropologists working under difficult and
Europe, Nicaragua, Mozambique, Vietnam, and ends male-oriented situations as compared to much that is
31 November /December 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:23 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
presented as “universal” but actually represents the the relative importance of each varies from one
male experience. The woman who proof-read the country to another. $15.96 pb, 0-87332-570-2; $32.95 cl,
manuscript had this to say about the book: “I have -417-X. Published by M.E. Sharpe, 80 Business Dr.
never read anything that brought me as close as Armonk NY 10504.
Change in an African Village did to feeling like I had
some sense of what an African villager’s life must be
like. You are, by the end of the book, on what feels like
a first-name basis with Kefa Mwale and Mwanishupa l.
and the other villagers in Kefa village.” $18.95 pb, The Women’s Movement in Latin America
0-931816-57-2. You might also consider Kumarian’s edited by Jane S. Jaquette looks at the political roles
Hopeful Openings: A Study of 5 Women’s Develop- and the work of feminist organizations in various
ment Organizations in Latin America & the Carib- countries’ transitions from authoritarian to
bean, $14.95 pb, 0- 931816-23-8. Kumarian Press, 630 democratic rule. Individual contributors chart the bur-
Oakwood Ave. Suite 119, W. Hartford CT 06110. Dis- geoning women’s movements in Argentina, Brazil,
tributed by Inland. Chile, Peru, and Uruguay, looking at human rights
groups, feminist groups and the political mobilization
In the event that you need confirmation (at this of the urban poor. They assess the degree to which
late stage in the game) that women in management are women’s new political visibility has changed the
discriminated against on a worldwide basis, turn to political agenda as well as how the Latin American
Women in Management Worldwide edited by Nancy experience has affected international feminist theory
Adler and Dafna Izraeli. It finds that the reasons for ($14.95 pb, 0-04-445185-7; $39.95 cl). Women, Knowl-
the paucity of women in management are fairly simi- edge, and Reality: Explorations in Feminist Philoso-
lar worldwide: cultural sanctions, educational bar- phy edited by Ann Garry & Marilyn Pearsall looks at
riers, legal restrictions, and corporate obstacles. Only the methodology of philosophy, metaphysics, theo-
SM L. I C E N A INI C Y
ECHOLS FRASER
DARING TO BE BAD UNRULY PRACTICES
Radical Feminism in America,1967-1975 Power, Discourse, and Gender in
foreword by Ellen Willis Contemporary Social Theory
The premier study of the most dynamic force A socialist-feminist perspective integrating
in the women's movement. poststructuralism, critical social theory, and
feminist theory.
ISBN 0-8166-1786-4 cloth $35.00 ISBN 0-8166-1777-5 cloth $35.00
ISBN 0-8166-1787-2 paper $14.95 ISBN 0-8166-1778-3 paper $14.95
32
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:23 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
riesof knowledge, philosophy ofscience, philosophy books are from Verso’s Questions for Feminism series.
of language, philosophy of mind and includes work Verso also offers a revised edition of Michèle Barrett's
by well known American feminists Jeffner Allen, Women’s Oppression Today: The Marxist/Feminist
Marilyn Frye, Evelyn Fox Keller, Sandra Hardingand Encounter that surveys the political and intellectual
Helen Longino ($16.95 pb, 0-04-445222-5; $39.95 c1). changes that have taken place since it was published
On a lighter note Symbols for Women by Sheila in 1980: changes that would make the writing of such
Farrant offers a matrilineal approach to the zodiac a text now impossible. $14.95 pb, 0-86091-931-5;
and draws on anthropology, mythology and recent $42.50 cl.
archaeological discoveries to provide a re- Routledge titles, at least the ones distributed in
interpretation of the twelve zodiacal signs to the U.S. tend toward the academic and the very aca-
counterbalance patriarchally influenced interpreta- demic. In its Critical Psychology series Routledge
tions (£6.99 pb, 0-04-440459- X). offers The Psychology of the Female Body by Jane
Two Australian books of interest published by Ussher and Significant Differences: Feminism in
Allen & Unwin/ Australia and distributed in the U.S. Psychology by Corinne Squire. Ussher examines the
by Unwin Hyman are Sexual Subversions: Three role of the female body in women’s identity and ex-
French Feminists and Heroes & Lovers: A Question perience. She discusses how menarche, menstruation,
of National Identity by Rosemary Campbell. Heros pregnancy and menopause affect women’s lives and
& Lovers examines the repeated outbursts of rioting looks at the ways in which the female body and repro-
and violent confrontation, usually over women, be- duction have been used to confine and control
tween Black and white U.S. servicemen, Australian women. She believes that psychology as a discipline
servicemen and male civilians. It provides a fascinat- has much to contribute to a positive, feminist re-
ing account of the complex relationship between sex, evaluation of the female body and reproduction
nationality and war ($16.95 pb, 0-04-332133-X). ($12.95 pb, 0-415-01557-X). In Significant Differences
Sexual Subversions looks at the writings of Julia Squire examines what feminism and psychology
Kristeva on abjection, motherhood and love; the writ- mean to each other, looks at the women-centered and
ings of Luce Irigaray on the ethics of alterity; and the egalitarian forms of feminist psychology and looks at
work of Michèle Le Doeuff on the philosophical im- more complex feminist attempts to deal with psychol-
aginary ($14.95 pb, 0-04-351072- 8). ogical concerns and identifies feminist initiatives
All five books are published by Unwin Hyman which address psychological issues but refuse to re-
and are distributed by Unwin Hyman in the U.S. 8 spect the boundaries of mainstream psychology
Winchester Pl., Winchester MA 01890. ($12.95 pb, 0- 415-01225-2).
A
Routledge, Chapman & Hall distributes books
for independent and left-leaning publisher Verso.
Secretaries Talk: Sexuality, Power and Work by Rose-
mary Pringle examines the role of gender in the work- In Feminism and the Contradictions of Oppres-
place and the relationship between subjectivity, sion Caroline Ramazanoglu acknowledges the
sexuality, work and culture. It describes common ways that feminism has been enormously success-
secretary-boss relationships (master-slave, “office ful since the 1960's in revealing the ways in which
wife,” and father-daughter) as well as the relation- men exercise power over women but also considers
ships between secretaries and their women bosses. that, as feminism has grown, it has become increas-
Pringle hopes to deepen the ties between feminists ingly divided: white from Black, first world from
and secretaries. $14.95 pb, 0-86091-950-1; 42.50 dl. third world, working class from middle class, les-
Grafts: Feminist Cultural Criticism edited by Susan bians from heterosexual women. “In this thought-
Sheridan demonstrates the strength and variety of provoking book, Ramazanogļlu presents a scholarly
current feminist cultural criticism. The essays con- but sympathetic evaluation of the problems inher-
sider varied cultural texts but share an emphasis on ent in feminist theory and politics and concludes
feminist strategies rather than feminist content. Both that the divisions between woman have arisen for
November / December 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:23 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
44 'A literary Ytreasure chest n good rea son: wome` n d ao uh ea v ce rc lo yn t anr da d pi oc wt eo rr fy i n tt he atr e as nt s e.
Sh e r g s l ea ul ly scape from
...Here is not just one voice, but this impasse is possible if feminism can work posi-
many —all lifted in a collective tively with the contradictions in feminist policies and
song of work, commitment, and focus on liberation rather than oppression.” ($13.95 pb,
exhortation to pass it on.” 0-415- 02836-1).
—The Women’s Review of Books 3
HE SCHOMBURG LIBRARY OF FN
NINETEENTH-CENTURY BLACK
ÚZS WOMEN WRITERS series, under the Other Routledge titles include Current Issues in
general editorship of Henry Louis Gates, Jr., has Women’s History ($14.95 pb, 0-415-00362-8); Women,
rescued the voice of an entire segment of the Policing, and Male Violence: International Perspec-
African-American literary tradition by offering tives edited by Jalna Hanmer, Jill Radford and Eliza-
volumes of compelling and rare works of fiction, beth Stanko looks at the roles of police forces in several
poetry, autobiography, biography, essays, and Western societies in intervening in domestic violence
journalism, written by nineteenth-century and rape cases ($15.95 pb, 0415-00-93-7); Feminism
black women. ÉA $3 and the Power of Law edited by Carol Smart, which
investigates the value of law reform, how law treats
“Extraordinary... This magnificent project will women, how feminist scholarship has engaged with
dramatically change the landscape of law and warns both scholarly and grassroots feminists
[African-American] cultural history.” against taking the law too seriously ($13.95 pb, 0-415-
Eric J. Sundquist, | | 02671-7); and Feminist Fictions: Revisiting the Post-
The New York Times Book Review modern by Patricia Waugh which attempts to uncover
Announcing the first four volumes the reasons why women writers have been excluded
from th e" sNerie.so t o aMppea r i0n - p1ape4rb5ac-k: 0 f1rom5 4 th7e - co2ns)i.derations of postmodern art ($14.95 pb,
If you sell expensive hardcover books routinely,
you might want to consider Donna Haraway’s Pri-
mate Visions: Gender, Race, and Nature in the World
of Modern Science. Says Kirkus, “Haraway, a his-
i torian of biology, presents a history of primatology in
The Journals Six Women’s the 20th century that is responsible ‘to the broad left,
of Charlotte Slave Narratives NANE N N $ movements,
Forten Grimké Introduction by (an ) to animals.’ She peelsaway at the stories’ scien-
Edited by Brenda William L. Andrews tists have told to explain the passage from ape to
Stevenson 384 pp: paper:s9,95 human, from sex to gender, from nature to culture. She
672 pp. paper $10.95 TeC iiec d Wark accomplishes this through deconstruction and de-
S. e oected Works stabilization of the accounts of science, reconstructing
BOerh, i nTdh i rtthye YSceeanrse s a o fE d Pitheidl li sb y W Jhoeahtnle yC . t hCeVmn‘ i nM alrigtrhotrio fmmaaro r f afsatcatr s ifaffefcetsitning:g oobb s teirvation
Slave, and Four Years Shields and experiment: factors including colonialism, WW II,
in the White House 384 pp. paper $9.95 postwar decolonization, the U.N. statements on race,
ELIZABETH KECKLEY the threat of nuclear war, and the women’s liberation
Tmas Otay 7 movement. Ingenious, formidable, outstanding.”
432 pp. paper $9.95 C= ($35.00 cl, 0-415-90114-6).
Routledge, Chapman & Hall, 29 West 35th St.,
<OXFORD PAP ERBACKS -j NY NY 10001. Write for a catalog if you don’t al-
Oxford University Press © 200 Madison Avenue • New York, NY 10016 ready have it. O
November/December 1989 34 Volume 12 Number 4
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:23 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
: : —,
eini R an IRAAN 1
By Kris Hoover Own growth as a feminist scholar-activist. $12.95 pb,
0-8702-3659-8; $35 cl, -3658-x, 297pp.
TEXAS A & M UNIVERSITY PRESS Larger stores might also consider The Healing
One Woman’s Army: A Black Officer Remem- Imagination of Olive Schreiner, Joyce A. Berkman,
bers the WAC, by Charity Adams Earley, gives a clear $35 c], -3676-8, 384pp., illus. Schreiner (1855-1920)
sense of life in an army unit during World War II and was a white South African writer, feminist and
conveys the special heroism of the first Black women anti-imperialist who was particularly influential in
in the military. Earley has a fantastic memory for the Britain.
details of daily life and a talent for anecdote. As her
stories unfold—from finding furniture to make a bar-
racks homelike to creative ways of dealing with racist AN NI
officers and homophobic orders—it becomes clear
that she is also an astute and frequently droll observer YALE UNIVERSITY PRESS
of her own actions and of those above and below her Yale has a flock of interesting and strong-selling
in the ranks. Some customers may have heard the paperbacks for fall, led off by the first volume of
author interviewed on NPR this past summer. The $25 Sandra Gilbert and Susan Gubar’s No Man’s Land:
price is a drawback, but I plan to recommend it as a The Place of the Woman Writer in the Twentieth
gift. 0-8909-6375-4, cl., 218pp, 49 photos. Century. Wide-ranging, forthrightly feminist and
E often funny, readers interested in popular culture as
l u w3ell 2 as0 lipterpatur.e, wi ll 1 lik0e it . i0-l30l0u-045s87.- 5, $:11.95 pb,
FJifn R
The Desert is No Lady, edited by Vera Norwood
UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS PRESS and Janice Monk, with 74 b&w illustrations, collects
Tapestries of Life, by Bettina Aptheker, is a essays on Indian, Hispanic and Anglo women’s art
book for anyone who wonders what women’s stu- and their relationship to the landscape of the U.S.
dies could be about other than institutionalizing Southwest. -04588-3, $19.95 pb, 281pp.
feminism. It’s also an answer for the inevitable cus- Partner and I is a genuine lesbian biography of
tomer who asks, either with awe or suspicion, New Deal era politician Molly Dewson and Polly
“What are all these books about, anyway?” Like the Porter, her partner of over fifty years. Though readers
title, the chapter themes are familiar: women’s en- will wish for as much information about the Porter-
durance and creativity in the face of oppression; the Dewsons” (as a couple) as author Susan Ware gives us
centrality of lesbians to feminism; the process of about feminism in the Roosevelt administration, this
making feminist insight from diverse women’s is a remarkable tale of public women with a fairly
daily. experience. What is rare and remarkable public relationship. $16.95 pb, Đ04621-9, 327pp., 27
about Tapestries is Aptheker’s ability to introduce photos.
so many women’s writings in such a readable way, If you sell art books, try Gwen John. Author
and to personalize the process with a sense of her Cecily Langdale combines a complete catalog of John’s
Volume 12 Number 4 November /December 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:23 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
. e + : :
paintings and some of her thousands of drawings
Unconventi o nna l l aIn ad w waist h “ o va e rcsohnacdisoew ebdi”o g irna p hthye. Tarhto u gwho r lJdo hbny (1h8e7r6 -l1o9v3e9r)
Rodin, her paintings are often reproduced on cards
Gender Blending and book jackets and will be familiar to many custom-
Confronting t hBe yLim i tsH oof l Dluyali ty D eres. v $o24r.95 pibl.,l u04s48.4-4, 251pp., 64 color & 370 b&w
“A major contribution to the understand- The Gospel of Gentility: American Women Mis-
ing of gender.” —Anne Bolin sionaries in Turn-of-the-Century China, by Jane
Fifteen women, sometimes mistaken for Hunter, explores the paradoxes of women who set off
ey SISE u E to bring Christian domesticity to heathen China but
vulnerability in a patriarchal world ended up in such undomestic pursuits as pharmacy,
by minimizing their femininity. dentistry, and building contracting and lived most
cloth $35.00 paper $12.95 frequently either alone or with other women. Hunter,
an unusually good writer, has produced one of the
The Remasculinization of America most interesting books around on Victorian women
aaa, Gender and the and on women and colonialism. $16.95 pb., -04603-0,
e Vietnam War 318pp., 35 photos.
By Susan Jeffords Also check the Yale catalog for paperback collec-
Jeffords argues that the ti o nsc roni steiesna g e o pfre gn aVncyi,e tpanrenatmal l ea v:e fosr ch:ild-
demonstrates better than other social and birth and adoption, and early childhood education. If
u PtcRu ln Eo Is ta Vvha Oi Ns E N S$ES P3 S B 5a nv. e n0Se L0s Ss Mo f ep d y iaeo vpu a l es Verl il e w a sc a$ d oe1fm 2i Wc. o 5b mo0eo nk ,s a:w e bl i] l, i n a gl uso a l p ei dck it i ou np oT fhree
three French poems, along with an essay by the trans-
Black Female Playwrights lators, Gloria K. Fiero, Mathe Allain and Wendy
An Anthology of Plays before 1950 Pfeffer. $8.95 pb., -04442-9, 168pp,., 14 illus. Woman in
Edited with an Introduction by Kathy A. Perkins the Crested Kimono by Edwin McClellan is taken
S Perkins has selected nineteen plays from from a biography ofa 19th-century Japanese aristocrat
seven writers who were among the major written by a famous male author, Mori Ogai. This
drtamhatiizser s oeftaher bllayck e xppereienrcei odudrin.g boTok h is e ass em uc hp abloauty Osga i asr iet pis r thee s weomnant, Sh ibau e ' 1
critical stage in the development of black Io. If you're near a college, you may want to carry it
drama in the United States. “Highly rec- anyway. $10.95, -04618-9, 192pp.
colomth m$35.e00nded.” —Library Journal Yale's new books include Feminism and Psycho-
analytic Theory, the first in a decade by feminist
psychologist Nancy Chodorow, a biography of femi-
T nist author Mary Austin and an updated paperback
The Wi „e Young Rebecca 1911-17 edition of a very readable history of childbirth.
ê S elnectgeds an do Ifnt ro deucbede cb yc : a J aní e W MPaerEcsuEst " C a lC ifh oo rd no ir ao ) w e’s s t ae ba lr il si he er d b to hok e , a uM to ht oh re r ain s g t h(U e n biv ee sr t-s kit ny o w o nf
cRolelebcetecdc a h erWe e fsotr' s t heea rflirys t jtoimure,n arleivsetali c p rwopronitenint g osf, ffememiniisnt i p shyc h iosan:ianlyístihs e i:nU .tSh.e aUn.Sd. an
w ea nenspct ed p a is nas i ol ni tat pt hee e rs p soea unrs fe fysr r o a g p ee o lv it cie aca mnl p$ht aass i g c1n o .na t si cn2 hue odw a n .t aoe l9 ylflo sc iu s 5s a htsh a e s d he a b nea ytre:t ho v ineer g x w ph tesoet hr e cri o - nP tsy r- i: b u t: e : t o , women’s
[E it’s safe to assume that mos tlib e raftioenm. I i hnaviens'tt se esn t tohirs eOcst ob ecr a rnele as e s yeetl,l b utthe
hardcover. $25 cl, 04417-8, 300pp. Also new in cloth
IND DesIpA tN .S A I AZ U2 ND I 8FV 5,E R 5 S10I0T 5tY 0h 4 P R& E L S S yM iaonnrd gt o pn a I p n eSr :t s i.s A, a B r HI ev iii sis t e d o, r e ydINit i o on4f 7 o4 f 0 C5 t hh eii l dv: e b r.y i r .tr e ha: d a sb il ne America.
Authors Dorothy and Richard Wertz have updated
November/December 1989 36 Volume 12 Number 4
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:23 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsE
teny AAI I A
their excellent 1977 book to include the influence of theory and reprints of feminist classics like Alice
the feminist health movement, overuse of Caesarians, Rossi's Feminist Papers. This season's more modest
inadequate health care for poor women, and other list holds one significant novel: Harlem Renais-
current topics. $15.95 pb, 04087-3; $35 cl, 04088-1, sance writer Jessie Redmon Fauset’s There is Con-
322pp, 25 illus. Carmel Shalev’s Birth Power is a fusion. Like her more famous novel Plum Bun
liberal feminist defense of surrogate motherhood (most recently seen on Methuen), this story focuses
(women’s right to control our bodies includes the on the struggles of Black middle-class women in
right to bear children for money), but most stores will Philadelphia in the 1920s. $12.95 pb, 1-5555-3066-4,
want to wait for the paperback. $19.95 cl, 04216-7, 304pp. Oct.
201pp.
UNIVERSITY OF OKLAHOMA PRESS
Two new titles, on women healers and ancient
goddesses, join a list that includes an excellent collec-
tion on Indian, Hispanic, Asian and Euro-American
The new biography Mary Austin: Song of a women in the western U.S., The Women’s West, and
Maverick by Esther Lanigan Stineman, gives me a Australian feminist sisters Dale and Lynn Spender’s
chance to tell you again what an odd and interesting letters, Scribbling Sisters, making a 3-copy minimum
writer Austin (1868-1934) was. Though best known order possible for many stores. Medicine Women,
for her descriptions of the California desert, Austin Curanderas, and Women Doctors, by Bobette Perrone
admired Charlotte Perkins Gilman and wrote some and oțhers, is a collection of oral histories of 10 South-
startlingly feminist fiction. Cactus Thorn (University west women healers which explores connections be-
of Nevada, $15.95 cl, 0-8714-7135-0, 122pp), written in tween culture, trust and cure. It could have been better
the 1920's but not published until last year, deserves edited, but it should still appeal to women interested
as wide an audience as some of Gilman’s short fiction. in spirituality and the health professions. $22.95 c|,
In it, a rich young man comes to the desert to find 0-8061-2200-5, 272pp, 12 illus. Women in Prehistory
himself, and finds instead a self-possessed woman by Margaret Ehrenberg is a heavily illustrated book on
who trusts and teaches him. He takes what he learns the very popular subject of neolithic goddesses and
and promptly returns East to a conventional marriage women’s power in ancient societies. It is particularly
and political career; confused, she follows him; he notable for its clear explanation of what we can know
patronizes her, and she quietly murders him. from archeology, and how sexist assumptions have
Stineman’s Mary Austin opens with a cover photo tainted popular and scholarly views of the past. $29.95
Austin found “unflattering,” a clue that this is a tale c], -2223-4, 208pp., 53 b&w illus. on glossy paper.
mainly about embitterment rather than art or femi- <
nism. The Austin Stineman describes is the victim of |
cse ox mis pm la, i n eb ru t w s hh oe ui ss e da l s so e x a isn m o b asn o x anio u es x, c um sea n i fp ou rl a t pi ev re - è.
sonal failings. Some stores may want to wait for the TEMPLE UNIVERSITY PRESS
paperback. $25 cl, 04255-5, 304pp, 25 illus. Nov. Tempie has the usual strong list of women’s stu-
dies titles with progressive political themes. Six are
NORTHEASTERN UNIVERSITY PRESS hardcover, but check out the catalog and consider
Northeastern is known for its socialist-feminist making an exception for a copy or two of: Black
Volume 12 Number 4 37 November / December 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:23 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
THE NEW POLITICS FEMINIST THEORY
OF PORNOGRAPHY IN PRACTICE AND PROCESS
Donald Alexander Downs Edited by Micheline R. Malson, Jean F.
Downs explores the new feminist antipornography O’Barr, Sarah Westphal-Wihl, and Mary Wyer
strategy and addresses difficult questions about the Drawing from research in the humanities as well as
limits of free speech. “The hallmarks of this careful the social sciences, this volume offers insights into
study are reason, empathy, and moderation. It isa recent developments in feminist theory. Individual
welcome antidote to the blinkered ideologies that essays examine the context of a black feminist ideol-
have dominated discussions of pornography. ogy, sexual violence and literary history, the
Downs gives both sides of the pornography debate politics of mother-daughter relationships, and
a fair hearing, while patiently exposing the weak- female creativity.
nesses of absolutist positions.”—David P. Bryden, Paper $14.95 376 pages
co-editor, Constitutional Commentary Library cloth edition $30.00
Cloth $42.00 (est.) Paper $14.95 (est.) 280 pages (est.)
SARAH'S CHOICE
VIRGINIA WOOLF AND THE Eleanor Wilner
FICTIONS OF PSYCHOANALYSIS “Writing between the poles of despair and hope,
Elizabeth Abel Eleanor Wilner is a re-maker of sacred mythology.
With a Foreword by Catharine R. Stimpson Against a background of burning cities, where his-
i“ nA g s ot fu n Wnin oog l, f b tr hi rll oia un gt h, ta hbs eo lu let ne sly o fc o m Klp ee il nli in ang ar ne dad- lt io fr ey .” — h Aas li c ic ah o Ose sn tr id ke ea rth, the poet chooses
Freudian psychoanalytic debates... and of PPahpoeern i x$ 9 .P9o5e t 1s10 pages
psychoanalysis through the lens of Woolf's novels
and essays.”—Nancy J. Chodorow Available at bookstores—
Cloth $24.95 200 pages
Women in Culture and Society series THE UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO PRESS
5801 South Ellis Avenue Chicago, IL 60637
Women Writing Autobiography by Joanne Braxton, Disabilities edited by Michelle Fine and Adrienne
$24.95 cl, 0-8772-2639-3, 240pp, Nov., a timely addi- Asch, is a thick collection of essays that build
tion to the popular academic field of women’s per- toward a socialist-feminist program of equal rights
sonal and autobiographical writing; and Identity and respect. $16.95, -2669-5, 368pp. Putting on Ap-
Politics: Lesbian Feminism and the Limits of Com- pearances: Gender and Advertising by Diane Bar-
munity by Shane Phelan, $29.95 cl, 2651-2, 256pp. thel doesn’t take a terribly radical approach, but it
Phelan deals with the tension between creating is a solid, common-sensical guide to why ads work.
lesbian community and culture and the liberal, in- To see how bizarre a common ad slogan looks when
dividualist resistance to anything that feels like con- set down in a context where the reader is supposed
formity. to think about it is practically worth the price of the
Never Married Women, a short, interesting book. $12.95, -2661-x, 221pp. Women, Class, and
study of the lives of fifty women, aged 66 to 101 that the Feminist Imagination: A Socialist-Feminist
illuminates old women’s concerns as well as their Reader, edited by Karen V. Hansen and Ilene Phil-
strategies of coping with compulsory hetero- ipson, contains 30 essays, from “classics” like Gayle
sexuality. $12.95 pb, -2671-1, 198pp. Women with Rubin’s “The Traffic in Women” to a new article on
November /December 1989 Volume 12 Number 4
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:23 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
reni OI
rm P
science, technology and socialist feminism in the where we are without Addams and her contemporar-
1990s by Barbara Christian. $19.95, 2654-7, 670pp. ies. There are mass-market editions of Addams’ two
Harvey and Jessie, a Couple of Radicals, the auto- Hull House books (NAL, I think), which talk about
biography of radical journalists Harvey and Jessie feminism, labor organzing and the founding of the
O'Connor, written with Susan Bowler, isn't exactly Women’s International League for Peace and Free-
the typical story of a “dual-career couple.” $14.95, dom, as well as the settlement house movement. You
-2659-8, 278pp, 14 illus. might also pick up Illinois’ edition with the original
illustrations by Norah Hamilton (sister of mythologist
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN PRESS Edith Hamilton and public health pioneer Alice
Michigan is a press to watch — they don’t have Hamilton): Twenty Years at Hull-House, $10.95, 0-
many books, but what they offer is unusually creative 252-06197-1, 350pp. Other Hull House books of inter-
and not dry. For example, est are: the only known book actually by a woman
Virtue of Necessity: English Women’s Writing from the neighborhood, I Came a Stranger: The Story
1649-88 looks narrow, but isn't. By drawing on of a Hull House Girl, Hilda Satt Polacheck, $24.95 cl,
women’s almanacs, petitions, biographies of their -01632-7, 280pp, 16 illus; The Many Faces of Hull
husbands, and religious and astrological pamphlets, House, the work of male photographer Wallace Kirk-
along with the traditional poetry and prose sources, land, edited by Mary Ann Johnson, $19.95 pb, 06108-
scholar Elaine Hobby uncovers a fascinating range of x, $34.95 c], -01683-1, 140pp, 63 illus.; and a novel by
topics and opinions. $11.95 pb, 0-472-08098-9, $29.95 Addams’ friend, journalist Elia Peattie, The Precipice.
c], -10125-, 269pp. While not great literature, this is an interesting tale of
I haven't seen Women and Ideology in the the ambivalence of conservative turn-of-the-century
Soviet Union by Mary Buckley yet, but it looks like feminists about marriage versus careers. This heroine
the kind of general introduction to the history and finds the women’s movement and a reasonable
politics of women’s roles in the Soviet Union that husband, too. $8.95, 06093-8, 242pp.
general readers have been requesting for a while. h
$13.95 pb, -06410-x, $35 cl, -09410-6, 256pp.
A collection that unites activists and scholars,
Healing Technology, edited by Kathryn S. Ratcliff,
deals with such basic issues as jobs for Black women Other Illinois paperbacks are: Women Anthro-
with rheumatoid arthritis, medical marketing’s efforts pologists: Selected Biographies, Ute Gacs, et al.,
to co-opt the women’s health movement and recom- eds., includes 58 women anthropologists, from the
mendations for women’s health initiatives that place founders of anthropology to women only recently
the needs and views of poor women and women of retired, along with a bibliography for each writer.
color at the center. Good, radical stuff, and well-writ- Mainly for anthropologists, but general readers
ten. $13.95 pb, 06395-2, $32.50 cl, -09395-9, 419pp. may also enjoy these readable short pieces on the
lives of very adventurous women. $17.50 pb, 06084-
UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS PRESS 9, 428pp.; The Contested Castle by Kate F. Ellis,
Since this is the 100th anniversary of the founding pairs the popularity of gothic novels with the 19th
of Hull House, Jane Addams’ books are in order. century glorification of women’s domestic sphere,
Though contemporary feminists might choose to do showing how female and male writers and readers
many things differently, I'm not sure we’d even be responded to sweeping changes in capitalism. $9.95
Volume 12 Number 4 39 November / December 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:23 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
pb, -06048-2, $24.95 cl, -01594-0, 226pp,: Seduction from 1919 to the early 1960s. The essays are well-
and Theory, edited by Dianne Hunter, literary criti- balanced between electoral politics and more radical
cism for criticism insiders, 06063-6, 10.95,250pp.; and feminism. The essays on Jewish Communist house-
Corners, a collage of photos and poems by Grace and wives in Toronto, Finnish Socialist women’s com-
Bea Nettles, a mother and daughter with impressive munities, the Ukrainian Women’s Organization, and
artistic credentials. The poetry is likable and easy to rural women’s organizing are particularly interesting.
understand, though many poetry readers will find it $19.95 is the paperback price they sent me, but check
amateurish. Likewise, some of the family album-like to see if this is Canadian dollars. 0-8020-6650-x, $45?
photos are interesting, bit the book has the look of a c], -2677-x, 347pp.
school literary magazine. $14.95, 0-930810-03-1, 104pp, n
59 photos.
Decoding Abortion Rhetoric: Communicating
Social Change, by Celeste Condit, is not in the fall IW
Illinois catalog but will apparently be avaliable in INDIANA UNIVERSITY PRESS
November. This study of the language used by anti- Black Women in White traces the history of Black
abortion and pro-choice groups is fairly academic nurses in the U.S. Author Darlene Clark Hine illumi-
(and liberal in its politics), but stores with large lit crit nates the history of institutionalized health care for
audiences may want to take a hardcover. $24.95, Black people, the development of Black women’s pro-
01647-5, 230pp. fessional organizations and the racist exclusion of
UNIVERSITY OF TORONTO PRESS Black nurses by white women’s nursing associations
as well as all-white hospital boards. $12.95 pb, 0-253-
Beyond the Vote: Canadian Women and Politics, 20529-8, $35 c], -32773-3, 288 pp, 46 illus.
edited by Linda Kealey and Joan Sangster, introduces Slave Women in Caribbean Society, 1650-1832,
the variety and depth of feminist activism in Canada by Barbara Bush, looks at gender, race and class in
Scarlett’s Women: Changing Our Own Words:
Gone With the Wind Essays on Criticism, Theory,
and Its Female Fans and Writing by Black Women
HELEN TAYLOR CHERYL A. WALL, ed.
Paper, $12.95; Cloth, $35.00. Paper, $12.95; Cloth, $36.00.
Shadowed Dreams: Women in the Third World:
Women’s Poetry of the Gender Issues in Rural and
Harlem Renaissance Urban Areas
MAUREEN HONEY, ed. LYNNE BRYDON & SYLVIA CHANT
Paper, $12.95; Cloth, $35.00. Paper, $12.00; Cloth, $38.00.
Wild Women in the Whirlwind: Fantastic Women:
Afra-American Culture and the Sex, Gender, and Transvestism
Contemporary Literary ANNIE WOODHOUSE
Renaissance Paper, $14.00; Cloth, $32.00.
JOANNE M. BRAXTON &
ANDRÉE NICOLA MCLAUGHLIN, eds. Rutgers University Press
Paper, $14.95; Cloth, $40.00. 109 Church Street, New Brunswick, NJ 08901
November /December 1989 40 Volume 12 Number 4
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:23 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms=
m
IN
describing how slave women’s experience was differ- or adventure stories. $11.95 pb, -20549-2, 288pp.
ent from men’s. Chapters cover the significance of Feminism and Science, Nancy Tuana, ed., is an
African cultural values, slave women’s communities excellent anthology of basic feminist essays on science
and support networks, and their contributions to the as an institution of patriarchal culture, with a range of
economy and culture of the Caribbean. $12.50, -21251- answers to the question “can there be a feminist
0, $29.95 cl, -31284-1, 320pp. science?” Especially recommended for readers just
Gender Blending has a wonderful cover with strik- getting interested in how feminists look at science.
ing pictures of six fairly butchy-looking women, but $12.95 pb, -20525-5, $35 cl, -36045-5, 160pp.
many readers will begin better informed than author Other paperbacks include an unusual “find,” the
Holly Devor. To her credit, she says at the outset that the diary of a battered wife and mother of an incest victim
15 women she interviewed made a “masculine impres- written in the late 1700s, Religion and Domestic Vio-
sion” on her, but unfortunately, she never overcomes lence in Early New England, edited by Ann Taves,
this. Other groaners are the author’s puzzlement that $10.95 pb, -20531-x, $29.95 cl, -35658-x, 198pp., and
these women think of themselves as feminists but don’t The Young Rebecca: Writings of Rebecca West 1911-
approve of women who “choose” to appear very femi- 17, edited by Jane Marcus and formerly available from
nine, and her assumption that terms like “fembot,” used Viking/Penguin, $12.95 pb, -23101-9, 416pp. Check
by Mary Daly, are the inventions of her subjects. The 15 the Indiana catalog for 8 other titles, 6 of them paper-
women’s quotes are the best part. Readers interested in back, too.
the psychology of gender identity and willing to over- =
look a lot may also be interested. $12.95 pb, -20533-6, $35
c], -31637-5, 192pp. l
The Remasculinization of America, by Susan
Jeffords, is a readable, scary book setting popular HARVARD UNIVERSITY PRESS
movies and books about the Viet Nam war in the Catherine MacKinnon's Toward a Feminist
context of the ongoing anti-feminist backlash. This Theory of the State will be one of the best-selling
media barrage, Jeffords writes, has been helping to feminist university press titles this season. Mac-
“re-gender” the U.S., while it simultaneously masks Kinnon’s densely written, carefully argued feminist
race and class divisions among men and reaffirms the theory isn't easy reading, but her understanding of the
values of capitalism and individualism. Rambo is an relations between government and gender hierarchy,
obvious target, but Jeffords’ analysis includes some of and the effects of both on women’s lives, justify the
the more benign-appearing material, too. $12.50 pb, effort. Sharp, quotable phrases — “abortion is neces-
-20530-1, $35 cl, -33188-9, 240pp. sary for women to survive unequal social circum-
Cavalry Maiden, the authentic memoir of a pass- stances” — reward persistent readers. $25 c|,
ing woman in the Napoleonic Wars, is translated into 0-674-89645-9, 330pp.
brisk, everyday English by editor Mary F. Zirin. Beyond Feminist Aesthetics: Feminist Litera-
Nadezhda Durova served nearly ten years as an of- ture and Social Change by Rita Felski is a bold, well-
ficer in the Russian cavalry during the early 1800s. stated argument against two related trends in
This fast-paced narrative of battles, comradeship, and contemporary feminism: the attempt to define an aes-
narrow escapes from being found out was a literary thetic, or art, that is essentially female, independent of
sensation when published some years later. Good class, race, time or place, and the acceptance by some
general reading, especially if you like history, horses feminists of a “quietist,” nonconfrontational politics.
Volume 12 Number 4 41 November / December 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:23 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThinking Women and Evil On Account of Order toll-free
Fragments NEL NODDINGS Sex 1-800-822-6657.
P CP F oes oy m s ntc tmih en mo oisa d pmn e oa r, rl n y a i ras sni yms d , W in e s tthe h h f“ .iN o a n vwo .e e.d s td wW b i n eoo o eg mf m ns e e nf ni ve s i m ch a ta i in im n s md tio o s s tn r E ig v c o s a fi c l lt h l h y mo se l ha aor lw es. s NT I Csh es Yu we e N s P , iT o n l H 1i t 9 pIi 4c aA5s p- e 1 r o 9 —Hf 6 8 “A OW R no Rm AIe cSn -O’s N
e h awJ “ v baF eA on onl u uaN db lx tde eE U’ t ds t ne u r bF i nl a v eL o t t i. ehA n q ta r ung iX —. st e - iu I . ta S ”. d yw at h e n a .o dui o t g . rH f he a t d e . …r Di t H .b e a leo ai rvo s wde k i n a nj r u- gi ess ,t .a s tt . rt .e a m c A Ut p n s pt ie l vs ev n edi rl it d s—o i w tb H o ya oi at ks z .s h ” e oo l fc f i a Ee Ct .me o li B on a a Brb i r on a $u- n 2d li 5dt e o .e 0y s r, 0,. pei s cc n nc i uo tigu c b —e i e zn ln i e L Wt f ct n i t io n s s ohro pt d me f s o a w, l eh i s nh S ci Khls yoe et e ax g . oo rp ”i i fr w bs is ni el ia a rgs tnr t h , he os q , r eo au s ft u i op Rr t o a he f enl id pe oi ndt m r uf i bcr l i a lu ne o ila - f cid st- U Cn ai lv ife or r Ps rnit ei sy a s of
$25.00 $10.95 paper Berkeley 94720
This is definitely literary criticism (it would be hard 336pp, 44 illus.; Emily Dickinson: A Poet's Gram-
to follow if you didn't know something about lit mar, Cristanne Miller, explaining some of Dickin-
crit) but it’s also activist-oriented. The author’s son's more obscure word choices, $9.95 pb,
point is to remind literature scholars and students -23036-2, 224pp; and Greek Homosexuality, K.L.
that feminist writing exists because and whenever Dover (male author), which briefly discusses lesbi-
feminism exists. I sold two copies of this on Satur- ans but is mainly for stores with a gay men’s section.
day — it could be a hit. $9.95 pb, -06895-5, $25 cl, $12.95 pb, -36270-5, 312pp, 104 illus.
-06894-7, 240pp. SA | |< UNIV TE heR S UI nT ivY sO itF oO T OT tA tawW A
e r y f a Press has several
IW books of interest to feminist bookstores. Osteo-
porosis: The Long Road Back by Pamela Horner is
The Psychology of Today's Woman: New one woman's account of how she fought her way
Psychoanalytic Visions, Toni Bernay and Dorothy back to relative good health. The book defines the
Cantor, eds., includes an overview of feminist recon- causes and effects of the disorder and stresses the
siderations of Freud and chapters on such current importance of proper nutrition and exercise as well
therapeutic issues as divorce, aging, reaching middle as the positive role a patient can play in self-
age without having had children, and bringing femi- rehabilitation. US$9.95 pb, 0-7766-0226-8. Getting
nism into the therapeutic relationship. Some essays the Word Out: Communicating Feminist Research
are fairly traditional in their acceptance of psycho- edited by Caroline Andrew is a bilingual collection
analytic concepts while others, like the study of that grew out of a 1987 conference sponsored by the
mother-daughter anger, add social and economic cir- Canadian Women’s Studies Association. It includes
cumstances as conditions to be understood. Most discussion on a number of topics including the im-
chapters are accessible to a casual reader of psychol- pact of feminist scholarship on various sectors of
Ogy. $12.95 pb, -72109-8, 377pp. society, the opportunities and barriers that help or
Also note: Justice and Gender, Deborah L. hinder publication of feminist work, and the diffu-
Rhode, on women and U.S. law from the late 19th sion of information through specifically feminist
century to the present, $39.50 hc, -49100-9, 480pp.; The versus mainstream channels. US$12.95 pb, -0235-7.
Mind has No Sex? Women and the Origins of Mod- Re(Dis)covering Our Foremothers: Nineteenth-
ern Science, Londa Schiebinger, which combines a Century Canadian Women Writers edited by Lor-
critique of science with attention to the contribu- raine McMullen appraises the significant
tions of early women scientists, $29.50, -57623-3, contribution of these women to Canadian literary
November/December 1989 Volume 12 Number 4
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:23 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
history and considers recent approachesto the works
of Susanna Moodie, Catharine Parr Traill and Sara
Jeannette Duncan as well as including “forgotten”
writers and suggestions for the recovery of their
works. It will be out in December. US$19.95 pb, -0197- MEDICINE WOMEN,
0. University of Ottawa has no U.S. distributor, so CURANDERAS, AND
order direct from University of Ottawa Press, 603 WOMEN DOCTORS
Cumberland St. Ottawa ONT K1N 6N5
By Bobette Perrone, H. Henrietta
ÅN Stockel, and Victoria Krueger
| Photograph © Shan Goshorn
| The stories of ten women healers form
ILR PRESS A the core of this provocative journey
Barbara Kingsolver’s fiction (The Bean Trees, ipta cultura healing methods -inle
Homeland and Other Stories) has been published to authors of this rewarding Survey approach traditional
great acclaim by Harper and Row. But her newest medicine as a living entity with its own internal laws.”
book and the first in nonfiction, has just been publish- —Publishers Weekly. “Fine scholarship... Written
ed by ILR Press at Cornell University. Holding the smoothly and with great heart.” —Booklist.
Line: Women in the Great Arizona Mine Strike of 372 pages. 12 illus. $22.95
1983 is an account of the eighteen-month strike WOMEN IN PREHISTORY
a ag lta ei rn es dt tt hh ee sP oh ce il ap l s o D rdo ed rg e i nC o sp ep ve er r a lC o sr op uo tr ha wti eo sn t e rt nhat By Margaret Ehrenberg
Examining the evidence from
m hii sn toin rg ie s t o ow f n s t. h eK i wng os mol ev ne r w d ho oc u sm use tn at ins e dth e t h p e e r ss to rn ikal e, archaeological, anthropologi-
cal, and classical documentary
exploring the process of empowerment that occurs sources, Ehrenberg throws new
when people work together as a community. Margaret liehtomihelivesoivoinermand
Randall said of the book, “This is, beyond all else, a heinssocial slats nE
women’s story: the struggle of heroic women, so often u N
the best measure of our nation. The splendid author fom Paleolithic era to the Iron Age. :
of The Bean Trees and Homeland enters yet another NO 4 in the Oklahoma Series in Classical Culture
genre with integrity and power.” $10.95 pb, 0-87546- Soe s995
156-5, available from Inland and Gordon’s. PERSONAL WRITINGS BY WOMEN TO 1900
ILR Press also has a new series on the Literature of A Bibliography of American and British Writers
American Labor edited by Cletus E. Daniel and Ileen A. Compiled by Gwenn Davis and Beverly A. Joyce
DeVault. The series will bring back into print some of This bibliography provides a comprehensive list of auto-
t mh oe v eb mes et n t l i t ae nr da t u rr ee la t t eh da t e v h enas t s e m ine r tg hed e Ufr no itm ed t h Ste a tl ea sb o ar nd biographical and travel literature. letters, ;
Canada. Each book will include an introduction writ- a bn etd w ed ei nar ie 1s 4 7 5b y a nw do m 19e 0n 0 .published
ten especially for the series. The first publication in the 316 pages. $65.00
series is Between the Hills and the Sea by K. B.
Gilden, introduction by David Montgomery. Gilden Write for FREE catalog. .
provides a fascinating picture of factory life and labor From your bookseller or
politics in the aftermath of World War II. The hope that d .
organized workers might transform industrial Amer- Saha o 8
ica into a more equitable and democratic society dis-
solved ten years later in the disillusionment and Oklahoma Press
Seju KA ENEN Dept. MAI9/1005 Asp Ave. Norman, OK 73019-0445
able from Inland. O Add $1.50 postage/handling
Volume 12 Number 4 43 November /December 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:23 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
j D
Black-owned, lesbian-feminist WIM Publications guidelines write: Women of Power, PO Box 827, Cam-
is seeking contributions for The Lesbian and Gay Wed- bridge MA02238.
ding Book, a nonfiction pictorial that will document
same sex unions. “We invite couples to share their joy Sinister Wisdom, a journal for the lesbian imagina-
and to deal homophobia a blow by submitting 3-5 tion in the arts and politics, is currently soliciting
photos (b&w or color), a 500-1000 word description of manuscripts and art work from all women of Italian
lt ih c e i rr i t ulo av l,e as nt dor y a/ d ce oc pi ysi o n of t o t h ec io rm m voi wt s .t h De oir n ’ tl i v mes i s si n t hp iu sb- Ade msc ee rn ict a n w i lt eh sb ia a n s st . r o Dn eag d lie nm ep h Fa es bi .s 1o 5n , w 19o 9r 0k . Tby hi s It ia sl sia un e-
chance! Make the world know we take our relation- will be guest edited by Denise Leto and Janet Capone.
ships and commitments seriously and we've got Write to Italian-American Issue #41, c/o Sinister Wis-
proof.” Write for guidelines. The deadline has been dom, PO Box 3252, Berkeley CA 94703.
extended so that WIM can publish a good cross- ESLASA
section of the community's multi-racial, multi-
cultural ceremonies. Early Spring 1990 is the
p Rr do . je #ct 1e 0d 0 , p r Te us rs lo d ca kt e . C AS D i 9a 5n 3e 8 0 B . o 2g 0u 9s -, 6 63 76 -0 01 9 6 6C .rowell about cF oi -r ds et p e p ne dr es no cn y / s ct oo -r ai le cs o h w ola isn mte d a nf do r A Can A a in sst uh eo slogy
Call for articles on the impact of homophobia on as experienced by lesbians. I'm looking for true-to-life
heterosexuals. “By now, most of us are well aware of adventure stories about what we've learned, how our
the ways in which homophobia negatively impacts recovery process(es) have improved our lives, and
the lives of lesbians, gay males, and bisexuals. Not as what tools and resources helped us that might help
apparent, however, is how homophobia restricts op- other lesbians. There's virtually nothing in print about
tions and stifles the spirit of non-gay peoples as well. co-dependency/co-alcoholism as experienced by
I am calling for articles for a new book discussing how lesbians, and very little of the co-dependency/
homophobia affects non-gay people to emphasize that recovery literature is lesbian specific or even lesbian-
the fight to end homophobia is indeed everyone's inclusive. A few audio tapes exist, but most of our
fight.” Contact Warren Blumenfeld (Looking at Gay and collective experience resides in the strong oral tradi-
Lesbian Life), 136 Hancock St., Cambridge MA 02139. tion of 12-step and other recovery program meet-
617-492-4639. ings. This anthology will be an experiment in
moving that body of wisdom and experience from
Woman of Power: A Magazine of Feminism, Spiritu- the oral tradition onto the printed page. In keeping
ality and Politics announces the following special is- with the various 12-step program traditions of
sues: Humor, deadline February 1, 1990; Women’s “anonymity at the level of press, radio and TV” and
Bodies, deadline May 1; Magic, deadline August 1; to facilitate speaking publicly about personal ex-
The Living Earth, deadline November 1, 1990; periences, all pieces will be published on a first
Women of Color: A Celebration of Spirit, Deadline ap- name basis or under pseudonyms. For further infor-
dp er ao dx l. i n J e a n apu par ry ox .1 , S e1 p9 t9 e1 m; b a en r d 1 ,W o 1m 99e 1n . Fin or C wom rim teu rn sity, mSaationn s enFdr SaAnSE c tios Acnoth o loCgyA, P O 9Bo4x 1 8882855.4 , O
44 Volume 12 Number 4
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:23 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
By Tee A. Corinne
Words have been the primary focus of the
Women-In-Print movement: poetry, politics, fiction.
Now we're seeing the emergence of a substantial fem-
inist art press whose most recent member, NewSage
Press, produces books that are works of art, whether
the subject is Women & Work, immigrant children,
mothers and daughters, or women artists.
Maureen Michelson founded NewSage in 1984
with a desire to produce books that would personally
touch people's lives. “I wanted to publish books with
some social or artistic significance, to offer a forum for
realities and voices that are not generally recognized
by larger publishing houses.” In the photo/essay
book she found the right combination of image and
printed word to convey the powerful messages she
had in mind.
Before launching NewSage, Michelson spent five
years as a freelancer for Time and five more editing
Glass, a national art glass magazine. “I kept seeing a
lot of interesting book ideas. There were all these
different realities that weren't being addressed by
major publishing houses.” With the help of operating
capital donated by private investors, Michelson pub-
lished Pasadena: One Hundred Years, a local best- The next NewSage title, The New Americans,
seller whose success financed NewSage’s second title, also became a “Young Adults” finalist and has sold
Women & Work: Photographs and Personal Writing. well to libraries, but, surprisingly, has not found
“With the second title, which I also co-edited, buyers in the gift book market. Michelson thinks the
came the lessons of national distribution and market- book is “too political. It addresses issues many find
ing. We quickly learned that this leg of a books’s hard to look at: people coming from other places
journey could be disastrous for a small publisher if not and having different experiences, some of them
carefully attended to, and that marketing and dis- good and some of them not so good.” It’s a book
tribution are essential to a book's success.” from and for the heart, though, and she’s proud and
The American Library Association chose Women glad she did it.
and Work for its 1987 list of “Best Books for Young See NewSage, page 95
November / December 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:23 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
But Can She Type?
By Nett Hart I'd recommend them. If BESTSELLER! means a signifi-
cant number of copies of a book sell so as to indicate
I'm sure we all have had the experience of heart- that something socially relevant to many has been
ily recommending something we've just read and said, the quality of the writing is not the point. If
then either wondering if our reading of it was so BESTSELLER! means the author or subject is famous or
eccentric as to be a real reflection of the book, or we've notorious then we're in the stuff of tabloid sales,
been questioned by the one to whom we recom- searching for one more chance at voyeurism.
mended it, asking “Why?” What makes “a great
read,” “highly recommended,” “soon to be a classic,”
— or a “BESTSELLER?”
The term BESTSELLER! is so arbitrary as to be
useless. There are no platinums or golds for specific
numbers of copies in print. A book is a BESTSELLER! if
someone says it is. And since none of us has taken to
leaving copies of our books in every hotel and motel
room, the competition will always be uneven. Is BEST-
SELLER! a competition and, if so, who competes?
What does BESTSELLER! mean, anyway? For a
small press, BESTSELLER! can mean financial stability
and access to a wider audience. Or it can mean chaotic
growth and new questions. For a bookstore, BEST- Do BESTSELLERS! create BESTSELLERS! ? Do
SELLER! can mean a book that sells without effort. stores collaborate with publisher hype by buying
Within a definable community, BESTSELLER! can cases of a new release and then pushing the book into
mean a large enough number of readers have had the becoming a BESTSELLER! ? Do books highly recom-
same cultural experience and there exists, then, a com- mended by publisher reps (who pays them, I ask, and
mon point for discussion and incorporation of phrases which publishers have reps?) tend to get more visi-
and names into the common vocabulary. If BEST- bility? If this is the case, then as consumers and sup-
SELLER! addresses a community issue, it draws atten- pliers of feminist books, we need to look at how the
ct oi mon m u nt io ca t it onh .e subject matter and may open ethics and resources of the big guys who pick and
choose among feminist titles influence our perception
Whether BESTSELLER! is a cultural phenomenon Of BESTSELLERS!
or an indication of marketing genius is open to debate. How much confetti and stars and neon does a
lA it e B raE tS uT rS eE . L L IfE R t! h ec a n m eb ae s u rb er e a od f a an d b o c oi kr ’c su s v a a lus e w te ol l a a s culture bf oe um ni tn ii fs ut l r se ta ad ce kr s n te oe d s e lt eo c t f i en xd a c th lyer w w ha ay t t shh er o u ng eh ed st h te o
is assessed over time, it becomes clear that great books read now? Assuming that the game of BESTSELLER!
are not so for everyone and many great books have limits rather than opens up choice, I suggest it is a
very limited audiences. Often, books that move me game we might be better off walking away from. But
most are ones I can't think of a single person to whom ther, like I said, my tastes run a bit eccentric. O
November/December 1989 46
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:23 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
S EEEa
By Donna Murray When asked whether or not to continue with a
Canadian column the overwhelming response was
In order to discover what direction Canadian “yes.” When asked “Why?”, the answers included: to
bookstores wanted to head for this continuing maintain contact among Canadian stores; to enlighten
column, in August I sent a questionnaire to all American visitors, publishers and sister booksellers
Canadian stores `listed on the FBN mailing list — about Canada, Canadian writers and Canadian stores;
eighteen stores in all, eight of which responded. I got and to offer another aspect of the internationalism
plenty of interesting copy, a commitment from some within FBN. There was a definite sentiment of
to author a column or two and a strong reiteration of Canadian stores having different issues and problems
the desire to see a Canadian presence in the pages of from our American counterparts. And, writers ex-
FBN. So the mandate to continue has been expressed, pressed a desire to utilize the resources available to us
and continue I shall, but before Canadian Content through FBN, and to expand Canadian Content if
springs forth into the deep issues and concerns of possible.
those individuals running feminist (and alternative)
bookstores north of the 49th parallel, for this month I
offer an overview of the answers received in the 1989
FBN — Canadian Content Questionnaire. :
I received answers from seven feminist book-
stores: Womansline Books (London), Northern
Woman's Bookstore (Thunder Bay), Ottawa Women’s Since the job of editing the column was taken up
Bookstore (Ottawa), A Woman's Bookstore (Calgary), by this volunteer for an unspecified period of time, I
Everywomans Books (Victoria), The Women’s Book- solicited ideas for future editorship, and alternatives
stop (Hamilton), Mrs. Dalloway’s (Kingston); and one for getting input for Canadian Content. For those who
response from the alternative store L'Androgyne said that they would be willing to do a column for one
(Montreal). I was pleased to hear from as many stores or two future issues, I have made note of your offers.
as I did, but was disappointed to miss out on input I will contact you shortly to set up a schedule of future
from some of the major cities whose stores offer a lot articles. Apart from these welcome contributions,
for sister stores to learn from. (It’s never too late to other ideas for a continued column suggested “ask
send in your answers!) everyone to contribute an article once a year,” and one
The questionaire asked about your hours of bus- recommended “a rotating editorship,” aimed at
iness, the main issues — political, business and spreading the focal point across Canada rather than
general — of concern for each store, and what the having it written from, and thus, limited to a west
stores would specifically like to see discussed in future coast point of view.
columns. In order to give a feel for the answers No one was interested, alas, in taking on the full
delivered, I will summarize where applicable and get job, a lack of time being cited as the main reason!
specific when appropriate. However, Peggy Harris of the Ottawa Women’s Book-
47 November /December 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:23 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsNormal shame and excessive shame, dysfunctional
families and “self-shaming” — this important new
book explores the nature and impact of shame and
includes helpful exercises in self-analysis and recov-
Ale s suonnisq u oe f s e1l2f--shteelpp rgeuciodvee r fyo r p rmogerna,m ds r atwo i nogv e rocno m thee ery from the potentially devastating effects of shame.
the crises in their lives. Merle Fossum relates issues o A Harper/Hazelden Book
o cr of e dc o em pv eea nrs yc du e l ni fn cr yi ot my a, n p dp e o rw as doe dnr il a ce l ts i s oln o ne s .s ss ,, pa hn yd s i cs ap li r i it llu na el sit sy , to ee o DN $8 ea c.t 9 ei 5 mo ,n b a epl ra pA e 8d r 9v be ar ct ki s i (n 0g -0 6C -2am 55p 4a 1i 1g -n 5)
° A Harper/Hazelden Book
e National Advertising in Gay and Alternative Media
e 6-copy Counter Display with Special Riser, $53.70
(0-06-255399-2)
° $8.95 paperback (0-06-255409-3)
An enormously practical handbook for anyone writing for
Tpheirss o nexacl i tginrogw tthoo l o ro f k eseeplfin-dgi s cao vjeoruyr n ainl c alus d epsa r mt oorfe at h 1an2- s1te0p0 pexreorgcriasmes.
to encourage writers to master practical concerns and explore the
full range of possibilities in journal-keeping.
° A Harper/Hazelden Book
e National Advertising Campaign
° $7.95 paperback (0-06-255410-7)
48 Volume 12 Number 4
November/December 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:23 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
The first four titles in a new series of inexpensive, pocket-sized medita-
tion guides for people in recovery. Gentle, inspirational, fortifying, and
instructive, these inaugural titles cover issues important to recovering
co-dependents:
Setting Boundaries (12-pack 0-06-255391-7)
Letting Go (12-pack 0-06-255392-5)
Accepting Ourselves (12-pack 0-06-255393-3)
Living Our Own Lives (12-pack 0-06-255394-1)
e Harper/Hazelden Books
o 48-copy Counter Display with Special Riser (12 copies each title)
$93.60 (0-06-255391-7)
o $1.95 each, Initial Orders Accepted for Display Only. Individual
Titles May Be Reordered in Packs of 12 ($23.40 each)
The authors of Facing Codependence
now provide a tool to guide codependents
step-by-step down the path to recovery.
From overcoming denial to confronting the
symptoms to developing a greater
dependence on self, this workbook helps
readers chart their own success.
e National Advertising Campaign
e 9-city National Author Tour for
Facing Codependence
° $9.95 paperback (0-06-250590-4)
o December 89
Volume 12 Number 4 49 November/December 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:23 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
store wrote that she could see taking on one or two
Northern W B oe mst as nel ’sle r Bs ookstore Tis os ru oe ns t ow , i t Hh ain m i lt th oe n , y ee tar c., co or u ld“w e al s oco u hld av es p ali t c hi at n cu ep .” so
Thunder Bay, Ontario And, Renee Albrecht from The Woman's Bookstop in
January to June, 1989 Hamilton indicated interest in doing a column, so we
FICTION" may well be on the way to a rotation. I will follow up
1 Slash, Jeannette Armstrong, Theytus Books. on your suggestions.
2 Honour the Sun, Ruby Slipperjack,
Pemmican Publications.
3 In Search of April Raintree , Beatrice Culleton,
Pemmican Publications.
4 The Prophecy of Man, Barbara Smith, Theytus
Books.
5 6 M The em o Rr ay d i aB no ta r Wd, a yJ ,a n Me a rR gu al re e, t N Da ria ad b. ble, cont rIn i b o uf tf eer i n tg o i d Cea as n af dor i a not h e Cr o nw tay es n to ,f h Pa ev gin gg y s to Hr aes rris
Collins. brought up the concept of a feminist bookstore “Cross-
7 Sometimes They Sang, Helen Potrebenko, Canada Checkup” where “we could do a little blurb
Press Gang. o trf i b w uth ea . t 's T h g iso i n wg o u o ldn ah le sor e . m..o at kh ee r o us rto r se os u t c ho eu rl nd sa il ss to e r c son-
NONFICTION more aware of what's happening politically in
1 The Courage to Heal, Ellen Bass & Canada.”
Laura Davis, Harper & Collins. All of the respondents are interested in having
2 DOGN’T:y A nWomeanr’s g Woyrd, El lyB Danoicao,ks. their own store profiled in a future column. Pull out
your scrap books and think about what some of these
3 Mother Wit, Diane Mariechild, Crossing Press. suggested topics: why do we love to sell books; what
4 Ourselves Growing Older, Doress, Siegel & keeps us in this business; why are we structured the
Older Women’s Book Project, way we are; how do we relate to the community; what
Simon&Schuster. are our hopes and dreams for the future; and when is
5 Choices: A Teen Woman's Journal, your birthday?!
Bingham, et al., Advocacy Press. Peggy Harris astutely writes, “I am interested
6 The Inner Dance, Diane Mariechild, Crossing in profiles. I think Canadian women’s bookstores by
Press. and large are unique. We really are a reflection of
7 Protect Your Child From Sexual the city and communities where we are established.
Assault, Janie Hart-Rossi, Parenting Press. I think it would be interesting to share these things
8 Helping Abused Children, Patricia Kehoe, — for example: why we are not a collective, or why
PhD., Parenting Press. are there now more privately owned women’s
9 For Lesbians Only, S.L. Hoagland & bookstores?”
J. Penelope, eds., Onlywomen Press. In in my inquiry into the main issues concerning
10 In the Name of the Fathers: The Story Be- Canadian women’s bookstores, I categorized the areas
hind Child Custody, Susan Crean, Amanita. into political issues, business issues, and other general
10 Women’s Experience of Sex, Sheila Kitzinger, issues.
Putnam. Two issues in the political category were raised by
109 New Our Bodies Ourselves, Boston Women’s several stores: the Goods and Service Tax (GST); and
Health Collective, Simon & Schuster. abortion. Both items have been in the headlines
nation-wide for several months, the GST is destined to
* (eI xt w' cs e p i tn t Rer aoe ds it ai nn tg m Wto a y )n o it se e at uh ta nht o r a el dl .o bf y t Ch ae n a f di iOc at nion listed h boav oke s ;a n a n e dn o ar bm oro tu is o n e f rf ee cc et n to lyn bp er ie nv gio u msl oy v e u dn t ba ax ce kd into
the courts with the Charter-testing cases where “boy-
November / December 1989 50 Volume 12 Number 4
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:23 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
friends” have claimed paternal rights over those of a askshow Canadian bookstores are helping to deal
woman to choose safe abortion. with racism in the women’s community. Peggy also
In Hamilton, reports Renee Albrecht, there is a asks, “How can we be a focus in the women’s com-
committee of bookstores forming to put pressure on munity without jeopardizing the business and our
publishers who are dumping stock at less than Own sanity?”
wholesale price; Margaret Phillips lists survival as a Other topics listed for future discussion in the
main issue and states, “We need to keep the bookstore general category were: poetry by Canadian women;
alive to give women access to feminist literature espe- what makes Canadian books different and important;
cially during this woman-bashing time. Books are how to get difficult-to-obtain books in Canada; how
vital to energize feminist activists — the major prob- stock is chosen; efforts to force Canadian distributors
lem of Canadian feminists right now, in my view, is to better represent US publishers; English books and
that we do not know how to deal with a right-wing French readers (and vice versa); and more attention to
government. We are still acting as though the govern- Canadian studies and publications addressing racism,
ment were liberal and would make small accommo- violence and sexism in Canada.
dations to us. We must learn soon that our previous
strategies will [no longer] work;” and in Montreal,
Lawrence Boyle, from L'Androgyne, lists censorship
in all categories.
Business concerns covered a broad range of top-
ics, each capable of producing future articles. For the
record here is a list of concerns which no doubt ring Several specific suggestions were presented for
true for most small feminist outlets, world-wide: general Canadian Content: the cross-country informa-
filling minimum orders as a specialty store; the cost tion, previously mentioned; mini-reviews of
of doing business — postage, city taxes, etc.; space Canadian authored books; and from Peggy Harris,
— finding a posh location vs. paying low rent; the “Yd like to see more promotion of Canadian women’s
perennial dilemma of whether or not to risk going literature, theory, etc. Perhaps this sounds national-
bigger, and full-time; handling finances; coping istic but it really blew me away and irritated me when
with work stress; poor Canadian distribution; the I was in the US recently to see very little by Canadian
m usy uas lt .erious “break even point”; in other words, the a wut ohbmor es. n ’Ios'd l bik ooe o kt so tk ose re e su ss gh ee tl.p ti in”ng g t o C f aa nc i ali dta i:t ae n t h we o U mS en’s
The response to the questionnaire has presented
an enormous number of issues and topics for
Canadian Content. Future columns will include many
of the suggestions, and any comments, letters, further
ideas, and on-going discussion will come to light in
And in a general “other” category, respon- the next issues of FBN. From the answers received,
dents wanted some discussion on these following I will be contacting specific stores and individuals,
issues: Margaret Phillips asks who, from Canadian to follow up on your ideas. Reading through the
bookstores, is planning to go to Barcelona — can we responses gave me a sense of the common difficul-
do anything in a co-operative way; and is there any ties and concerns our Canadian stores have, but
possibility of joint (Canadian women’s bookstores) also brought forth the incredible variety of capabili-
advertising in some of the US publications/ peri- ties, interests, and practices of the women running
odicals/guidebooks — a volunteer co-ordinator on feminist stores in Canada.
this one would be welcomed. Peggy Harris in Ot- If you are sending information directly to me,
tawa notes, “We are promoting and looking for please note the following address change: Donna
more books that deal with racism and carrying lots M(ur6ray0, 11483 ) N eil S5tree9t, 8Vict-ori9a, 6BC, 3 V84R 3.C 6, phOone
of books that speak to women of colour.” She
51 November / December 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:23 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
T
AMAZON ONE, by M.F. Beal, cloth, published at $7.95, NOW ONLY $4.95.
This controversial novel about political activism won for its author the Atlantic Grant, an award given
to a work of outstanding literary merit. In it, the author exposes the political reasoning, the private
sensibilities, the anger, and the fear of a group of radical activists.
“M.F. Beal is to be thanked. She knows what she’s talking about, and what she knows is worth
telling. Beal is fair and sympathetic, though infinitely wiser than she allows any of her characters to
be.” — The New Republic
“If you want to know what it was like to be a radical woman in the 60s in California, try this
novel. It probably gets as close to it as anyone can.” — Publishers Weekly
ANGEL DANCE, by M.F. Beal, trade paper, $5.00.
Romance, politics, and suspense combine in this thriller about a Chicana detective. Kat can fight her
way through anything — the U.S. Marine Corps, CIA espionage, even rape — anything except her
passion for the beautiful Angel Stone, a best-selling feminist author certain people are out to destroy.
ISBN 0-913780-16-2.
FOR SYLVIA, by Valentine Ackland, cloth, published at $13.95, NOW ONLY $4.95.
For forty years, Valentine Ackland was the closest friend and constant companion of novelist Sylvia
Townsend Warner. In 1949, as an expression of her love and admiration for Sylvia, Ackland wrote this
extraordinary memoir of that relationship. Her eloquent descriptions of lesbian relationship, a doomed
marriage, and her battle with alcoholism, give a honest look at lesbian life a generation ago. ISBN
0-393-02297-8.
“A moving testimonial to the power of love to transform and comfort.” — Kirkus Reviews
“Well composed and very eloquent.” — Times Literary Supplement
“A long and moving love letter.” — Feminist Bookstore News
DEAR SAMMY, by Samuel M. Steward, trade paper, published at $7.95, NOW ONLY $2.95.
Samuel M. Steward was a longtime friend of Gertrude Stein and Alice B. Toklas. In this memoir and
collection of letters, he shares his recollections of the famous literary coup le, andP helps keep= Gertrude-
and Alice alive for today’s reader. ISBN 0-312-18542-1.
To Order: Place orders directly through the address below, Special to
b 91y 8 9 c . a l Nlin ewg 6 ac1 c7 o- u54 n2 t- s5 6 s7 h9 o, u lo dr pF rA epX a y t h he a l fo r d te hr e t ao m ou us n ta t o f6 1 7 t- h5 e4 ir2- FBN Subscribers
first order. Our entire book list is also available from Inland
and Bookpeople. Selected titles from Ingram and Golden-Lee. 55% Discount on ten or more (as-
ALYSON PUBLICATIONS sorted) of the classics listed
40 PLYMPTON STREET a pb ao nv ye . y T oh uris oc ro du ep ro .n must accom-
BOSTON, MA 02118 Offer good through January 31, 1990.
| Lison-
November /December 1989 52 Volume 12 Number 4
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:23 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
More Corporate Takeovers Canadian women on strategies, planning and analysis
It’s certainly not intentional... It’s just that “small” for change. During the trip she met with Margaret
interests unimportant to the corporate scheme of Phillips of Northern Woman, the Thunder Bay
things (such as “women’s interests”) get lost when the women’s bookstore. Farida writes: “We are keeping
multi-nationals start eating each other. I'm sure I've books written by women and written for women. The
missed some of the details along the way but the gist bookstore will provide an excellent space for the read-
of the story I was told is that when New Zealand ers to get a collection of national and international
distributor Benton-Ross was eaten by Random- books, journals, and various reading materials. At the
House/NZ as part of a larger purchase, the new same time we will also provide opportunities for the
owners (despite platitudes to the contrary about keep- women writers to have a direct contact with the read-
ing Benton-Ross intact) decided to drop a number of ers. In the long run, maybe after one year we will start
smaller publishers (in the interest of economy, of publishing feminist books.” Narigrantho Prabartana
course) — including Firebrand, among many others. will stock books in both Bengali and English. We don’t
Random House/NZ then “got indigestion” and “spit yet have an address for the bookstore. Until we get it,
it out again” (i.e., sold). The new owners then dropped write to the bookstore c/o Farida Akhter, Executive
the next-smallest bunch of publishers — including Director, UBINIG, 5/3 Barabo Mahanpur, Ring Road,
Naiad. No anti-women or homophobic actions in- Shaymoli, Dhaka 1207, Bangladesh.
tended here — just the “economy” of small-press
dumping. And, by default, “returning” the market-
place to the province of corporate publishing...
All of which means that New Zealand bookstores
no longer have a New Zealand distributor for books
published by U.S. feminist presses and that Book-
people — an ocean away — is now their closest dis- New Stores
tributor. Argh! For those of you in NZ, Bookpeople’s Meristem will be Memphis’ first feminist book-
address is 2929 Fifth St., Berkeley CA 94710. store. It was scheduled to open in September. Write to
Vickie Scarborough and Audrey May at Meristem,
In Bangladesh! 3544 Kimball, Memphis TN 38111.
Narigrantho Prabartana ("promotion of feminist Common Destinations opened September 26th in
books"), opened in Bangladesh the first week of Oc- Ann Arbor at 2149S. Fourth Ave., Ann Arbor MI 48104.
tober. The moving force behind this exciting and The women there are Maria Ruedinger and Tina
courageous endeavor is Farida Akhter, the executive Jesinger. You may already have Common Destina-
director of UBINIG — a progressive policy/research tions on your mailing list as “Off the Beaten Path” on
organization in Bangladesh. She was in Thunder Bay, River St. in Ypsilanti.
Ontario this summer as part of The Women Working Karen Denicola is opening One World Books at
for Change Project, which brought women from six 3262 Edson Road in Rockford IL 61109. Contact her at
Third World countries to Canada to work with 815-874-7491.
Volume 12 Number 4 53 November /December 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:23 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Deidre Newton is opening New Town Bookstore, Send catalogs to New Chapter Books, 3 Heritage Cen-
a store that will stock books of women’s, feminist, and ter, Somers NY 10589.
recovery titles. FBN doesn’t have a store address yet, Stan Siegel is the new owner of Duval Books &
but you can send information to Deidre at 3000 North Cards. He’s now stocking lesbian and gay titles, and
Congress Ave. #101, West Palm Beach FL 33401. probably feminist titles. Send catalogs to Duval Books,
Karen Gates, the publisher of Aunt Edna's Reading 817 Duval St, Key West FL 33040.
List is planning to open a women’s bookstore in
Honolulu in the next few months. Send her catalogs,
e Ht oc n., o l uif lu y Hou I 9d 6o 8n 2’ 2t . already, at 2002 H Hunnewell St, Sl
Cathy Taylor is opening Mosiac, a bookstore on
Manhattan's Lower East Side. The stock will focus on
Third World literature and will include feminist, Design Originals, a ten year old bookstore, is
lesbian, and gay titles of importance to Third World beginning to carry lesbian, women’s and alternative
communities. Send Cathy information and catalogs at materials “because of community need." Send cata-
40 Clinton St. 4C, New York City, NY 10002. This is a logs to Design Originals, Rt. 82 Box 1370, Hopewell
temporary address — we'll run the store address as Junction, NY 12533 (Opposite Royal Auto Parts).
soon as the lease is signed. Gary Heath is planning to open a specialty book-
Pages Bookstore is a new general bookstore in store in the Central Ohio area that will stock gay and
San Francisco that’s been open for about a month. lesbian titles, as well as titles in the following areas:
Send catalogs to Pages, 1812 Divisadero St, SF CA AIDS and health issues, art, photography and interior
94115. design. Send information to him at 5295 Strawberry
George Barrett is opening New Chapter Books Farms Blvd., Columbus OH 43230.
which will include lesbian and gay books in its stock. Bay Bridge Books is a new, general independent
those who suffered through World War Il
remained silent. Women who lived
through the war were encouraged to share
their memories of it.
Through recalling the fear, confusion,
helplessness and horror of the war, and
writing about their memories of it, the
women whose stories appear in this book
these stories they became empowered to
join in the struggle against a system that
uses the threat of nuclear warasa means
of achieving peace.
PO. Box 22048
Seattle, Washington 98122
(206) 323-3868
FAX: (206) 324-8124
November /December 1989 54
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:23 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
bookstore in downtown Oakland that will stock a Moved
good women’s section. They’re in an old building that Wild Seeds Bookstore & Cafe has moved to 704
survived the 1906 and 1989 earthquakes very well — University Ave., Rochester NY 14607. 716-244-9310.
though many buildings in their immediate area will Marge Booker writes: “The bookstore is doing well!
be torn down due to quake damage. Not exactly traf- Bestselling titles include Lesbian Bedtime Stories, I
fic-building, but I'm sure they'll make it through our Dream A World, and Courage to Heal.”
post-earthquake. recession. Bay Bridge Books, 901 Good Vibrations, the San Francisco vibrator
Broadway, Oakland CA 94607. 415-835-5845. store (there's a horrible earthquake pun here, but
Sharon Mason is opening The Great Catsby, a I'm not going to make it) and its mail-order book
Bookstore, Gift Shop for Cat Fanciers, and Coffee- business The Sexuality Library have moved to 1210
house on or about November 1. 551 West Cordova Valencia Street, SF CA 94110 (two blocks down and
Suites D & E, Santa Fe NM 87501. 505-986-1794. across the street from Old Wives’ Tales and Woman-
Half the Sky in Mankato, Minnesota just sub- Crafts West).
scribed to FBN. The only information we have is their
address, but it certainly sounds like a women’s book- Closed
store! More details as we get them. Half The Sky, 417 Shades of Lavender in Jacksonville, Florida
Byron St., Mankato MN 56001. 507-345-5790. seems to have closed. Linda Malicki of Another
(Messrs.) Texas Fitzgerald and Jay Moseley are State of Mind in Lakewood, Ohio 44107, writes: “I
thinking seriously about opening a new and out-of- was in business for 2 1/2 years and it was a great
print gay and lesbian bookstore to serve the West experience!”
Texas area. Send them information at 1425 Warren China Books will be closing its retail stores in San
Lane, Fort Worth TX 76112. Francisco, New York, and Chicago in order to concen-
Going Places is a new travel bookstore/travel trate on its publishing program. It will consolidate
agency in Madison WI. Founder Ann Dwyer was an periodical subscriptions, mail order, book and publi-
collective member at A Room of One’s Own for 7 cation importing, and publishing programs in San
years, starting as a high-school student. She finally Francisco. Plans include a major monetary invest-
decided that she needed some other work experience ment, publishing 20 books a year, and a publishing
and left to learn the travel business. The bookstore intern program to train members of China’s presses.
will open yet this fall, the travel agency, a sepárate The San Francisco address will continue to be 2929
business, will open in January, 1990. Just to get back in 24th St., 94110. 415-828-2994.
practice, Ann worked the textbook rush at AROOO
this fall.... She says that these weeks of starting her
own business have been the most exciting, frighten-
ing, intense, chaotic and nerve-racking time of her life.
Maybe we can get Ann to organize trips to Barcelona
next spring? Going Places (the bookstore) and Going
Places (the travel agency) will be at 2860 University Books Move, Too
Avenue, Madison WI 53705. 608-233-1920. Journeyman and Pluto Press titles are now dis-
Book Services t (er vib enu tt ued al l yin ) hth ave e U e. vS e. r yby th iU ngn w fin ro mH y m boa tn h. pT rh ee sy se ss h to hu al td
Pride In Ownership is a mail order service in was previously available in the U.S., including the
Texas featuring women’s literature, music, jewelry, Tales- and More Tales I Tell My Mother anthologies of
stationary, cards and what-not. PIO, 3403 80th St., feminist stories.
Galveston TX 77551. Inland has a new raft of Women’s Press/UK
Eleanor Albury is considering setting up a mail titles including some of Women’s Press’ books for
order book-service, selling lesbian and gay books to teens (Kiesha); The Hide and Seek Files, a three-
people in the Bahamas. Send catalogs to her at PO Box generational saga of women-loving (and sometimes
SS 5860, Nassau, Bahamas. passing) women; Right of Way: Prose & Poetry from
55 November / December 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:23 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
the Asian Women Writers’ Workshop, from the London- necessaryto carry the company forward with care
based Workshop dealing with such themes as old age, and energy, in a direction in keeping with our philo-
crime, union politics, abortion and escape from un- sophy. She will, of course, honour all of Ragweed’s
wanted marriage; and A Wicked Old Woman by existing commitments, so I feel that I am leaving
Ravinder Randhawa, a first novel set in an Asian com- Ragweed in excellent hands. Laurie Brinklow will
munity in a British City about a woman who over- (also) continue to be on staff.” Last FBN heard,
comes familial ostracism and forges a life for herself. Libby was still looking for an appropriate situation
Inland also has the Afro-Bets kids’ books. for gynergy books, the lesbian aspect of her publish-
ing. Ragweed’s address continues to be PO Box
2023, Charlottetown PEI, Canada C1A 7N7. 902-
566-5750.
Selling Out?!
Waterwoman Books writes: “This is it, folks,
Good news: South End Press has decided to bring the last 600 copies of A Lesbian Photo Album are now
out a new edition of one of my long-time favorite at Inland and Bookpeople! This is probably the end
novels The True Story of a Drunken Mother by Nancy of a book that will only get more valuable as time
Hall. The True Story of a Drunken Mother was one of the passes.”
landmark books published by Daughters, Inc. in 1974
and has been out of print and unavailable since Events
Daughters’ demise. It’s a first-person, true-to-life tale 1989 marks the 15th anniversary of the first
of a working-class woman's fight with alcohol and Lesbian Writers’ Conference in Chicago and the 50th
alcoholism. A wonderful and powerful book publish- birthday of the conference founder, coordinator, or-
ed far “ahead of its time.” South End published Hall's ganizer, and publisher (Womanpress), and archivist
more recent book, The True Story of a Single Mother in Marie Kuda. To celebrate these two anniversaris to-
1984. No date yet. gether, Marie's friends have planned The Lesbian
The Library of Congress is/has/will put Desert Writers’ Conference 15th Anniversary Reunion/
of the Heart in Braille and will do a recording for Marie Kuda’s 50th Birthday Party on Saturday,
blind readers. It’s about time! You can refer customers December 9 at 8 p.m. at the Mountain Moving Coffee
who are visually impaired to The Womyn's Braille House for Womyn and Children, 1655 West School St.,
Press, PO Box 8475, Minneapolis MN 55408. They Chicago IL for all women who attended the LWC —
have a wonderful collection of tapes and books avail- or who wish they had. For more information contact
able to women who cannot read print. Write for a Nancy Finke, 1157 E. 52nd St., Chicago IL 60615. 312-
catalog. 363-9026.
Speaking of libraries, Barbara Grier has donated her
personal and Naiad Press’ collections of lesbian peri- Pat Parker's Literary Estate
odicals that span 40+ years to the June L. Mazer Lesbian Before her death, Pat Parker appointed Laura K.
Collection/ Archives in Los Angeles. The periodicals are Brown as her literary executor. Laura, and Pat's lover
cataloged and will be housed at the JMLC, 626 N. Robert- Mary Dunham will be working aggressively to estab-
son Blvd., W. Hollywood CA 90069. For access, contact lish Pat's literary estate so that her work will live on.
Bunny MacCulloch, Coordinator. Anyone wishing to reprint, read, or use any of Pat's
work should request written permission from her
Sold estate c/o Aya Enterprises, 1547 Verde Mal], Suite 265,
Libby Oughton writes: “For the past year Ive Walnut Creek CA 94596-2228. To discuss literary
been considering selling Ragweed, and now a sym- estate matters by phone, contact Laura Brown at 415-
pathetic buyer has ‘turned up’. Louise Fleming will 536-0536. For information of specific clarification on
be taking over the company as of the middle of how to obtain written permission, call Haley at 415-
October. She has all the skills and commitment 658-5283. Pat Parker died on June 17, 1989. -CS O
November /December 1989 56
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:23 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsSESSE
SEAE
Lioness Books Dreaming the Dark, Starhawk.
Sacramento, CA If You Want to Write, Ueland.
Summer Bestsellers The Woman Who Was Not AIl There, Sharp.
FICTION R Bie tm tee rm swbe er etin , g B at rh re . Bone House, Mairs.
With a Fly’s Eye, Whale’s Wit & Woman’s Heart,
Corrigan.
Pleasures, Sommers. inhali
Fried Green Tomatoes at the Whistle Stop Cafe,
Flagg.
The Bar Stories, Donnelly. JUDIT
Edgewise, Grae. R O.O M
Bittersweet, Barr.
TL hes eb ia Hn a n dLo mv ae i d ’S st o Tr aie les, , Z Aa th wa ov oa d. . Judith’s Room
She Who Remembers, Shuler. New York, NY
Blood Shot, Paretsky. FICTION — Paperback
NON-FICTION Mama Day, Gloria Naylor.
Places of Interest to Women, Ferrari. The Handmaid’s Tale, Margaret Atwood.
Women Under Attack, CARASA. ; Fried Green Tomatoes at the Whistle Stop Cafe,
Healing the Shame that Binds You, Bradshaw. Fannie Flagg.
The Courage to Heal, Bass & Davis. FICTION — Hardcover
Dance of Anger, Lerner. Accident: A Day’s News, Christa Wolf.
A Passion for Friends, Raymond. Tripmaster Monkey, Maxine Hong Kingston.
A Time of Protest, Wagner. Cat's Eye, Margaret Atwood.
Addictive Relationships, Miller. LESBIAN FICTION
T Cw ode elv pe e n dS et nep ts : N A o MW oa ry e , O Bu et a, t tF ier .iends in Recovery. Lesbian Love Stories, Irene Zahava.
Lesbian Bedtime Stories, Terry Woodrow.
OUR STAFF FAVORITES In Her Day, Rita Mae Brown.
Fried Green Tomatoes at the Whistle Stop Cafe, CHILDREN’S BOOKS
Flagg. Love You Forever, Robert Munsch.
T Ah fe t e rB a Dr e lS ot ro er si ,e s S, c hD uo ln mn ae nll .y. My Mother is Weird, Rachna Gilmore.
Ice & Fire, Dworkin. In Christina's Toolbox, Dianne Homan.
The Dream of a Common Language, Rich. ESSAYS
Writing Down the Bones, Goldberg. Burst of Light, Audre Lorde.
Search for Signs of Intelligent Life in the Uni- A Room of One's Own, Virginia Woolf.
verse, Wagner. The Graywolf Annual Five: Multi-Culteral
When Society Becomes an Addict, Schaef. Literacy, Simonson & Walker.
57
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:23 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
WOMEN’S STUDIES Dawn, Octavia Butler.
A Vindication of the Rights of Whores, Gail Dispatches from the Frontiers of the Female Mind,
Pheterson, ed. Jen Green and Sarah Lefanu, eds.
Feminist Theory: From Margin to Center, Bell THE ARTS
Hooks. Vision & Difference: Femininity, Feminism and
Women’s Reality, Anne Wilson Schaeff. the Histories of Art, Griselda Pollock.
Of Woman Born, Adrienne Rich. Opera, or the Undoing of Women, Catherine
Clement.
Feminist Aesthetics, Gisela Ecker.
Feminist in the Dark: Reviewing the Movies, Kathi
Maio.
BIOGRAPHY VIOLENCE
The Amazon and the Page, Karla Jay. Courage to Heal, Ellen Bass.
Fierce Attachments, Vivian Gornick. Obsidian Mirror, Louise Wisechild.
Zami: A New Spelling of My Name, Audre Lorde. The Ones Who Got Away, Ginny Nicarthy.
WOMEN OF COLOR ADDICTION/RECO VERY
Talking Back: Thinking Feminist/Thinking Black, Codependent No More, Melody Beattie.
Bell Hooks. Beyond Codependency, Melody Beattie.
This Bridge Called My Back, Cherrie Moraga and Leaving the Enchanted Forest, S. Covington & L.
Gloria Anzaldua, eds. Beckett.
Home Girls: A Black Feminist Anthology, Barbara
Smith, ed. MYSTERY
INTERNATIONAL T Fah te a l D Rog e u nC io ol nla ,r C M lau irr ed e Mrs c, N aB ba .rbara Wilson.
Memoirs From the Women’s Prison, Nawal El She Came Too Late, Mary Wings.
Saadawi.
You Can't Drown the Fire: Latin American Women POETRY
Writing in Exile, Alicia Partnoy. Time’s Power, paper and hardcove, Adrienne Rich.
Feminismo, Marifran Carlson. Fact of A Doorframe, Adrienne Rich.
The Hidden Face of Eve: Women in the Arab Dream of a Common Language, Adrienne Rich.
World, Nawal El Saadawi.
SPIRITUALITY
Jambalaya, Luisah Teish.
Weaving the Visions, Carol Christ & Judith HEALTH
Plaskow, eds. AIDS: The Women, Ines Rieder and Patricia
Goddesses in Everywoman, Jean Shinoda Bolen. Ruppelt.
LESBIAN POLITICS Menopause, Naturally, Sadja Greenwood.
Lesbian Ethics: Toward New Value, Sarah Lucia The New Our Bodies, Ourselves, Boston Women’s
Hoagland. Health Collective.
A Restricted Country, Joan Nestle. AGING
Why Can't Sharon Kowalski Come Home?, Karen When I Am An Old Woman I Shall Wear Purple,
Thompson. Sandra Martz, ed.
The Original Coming Out Stories, Julia Penelope Look Me in the Eye: Old Women, Aging &
and Susan J. Wolfe, eds. Ageism, Barbara McDonald and Cynthia Rich.
SCIENCE FICTION Women and Aging: An Anthology by Women, Jo
Wild Seed, Octavia Butler. Alexander, et al.
November /December 1989 58 Volume 12 Number 4
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:23 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
OB FO D FOY O D IMAGE/EATING DISORDERS/POLITICS 16 Pied Piper, Anna Livia.
17 Places of Interest to Women 1990, Ferrari.
The Obsession, Kim Chernin. 18 Cut-Outs & Cut-Ups: Fun 'N Games, Elizabeth
Overcoming Overeating, J. Hirschmann and C. Dean, New Victoria.
Munter.
Transforming Body Image, M. Germaine. 19 U An lb yr so ok ne .n Ties: Lesbian Ex-Lovers, Carol Becker,
Twelve Steps for Overeaters, Elizabeth L. 20 Sue Slate, Private Eye, Lee Lynch, Naiad.
PSYCHOLOGY
The Hero Within, Carol S. Pearson.
Thou Shalt Not Be Aware, Alice Miller. Silver Moon
The Drama of the Gifted Child, Alice Miller.
London, England
LITERARY CRITICISM Summer 1989
Writing a Woman's Life, Carolyn G. Heibrun. NON FICTION
How to Suppress Women’s Writing, Joanna Russ.
Fourth Dimension: Interviews with Christa Wolf Women’s Masochism: The Myth Destroyed, Paula
J. Caplan.
JOURNALS/DIARIES/LETTERS Jacqueline Du Pre, A Biography, Carol Easton.
The Cancer Journals, Audre Lorde. Man/Woman, The One is the Other, Elisabeth
Journal of a Solitude, May Sarton Badinter.
Recovering: A Journal, May Sarton. The Construction of Life and Death, Dorothy
Rowe.
Kali the Feminine Force, Ajit Mookerjee.
A Room of One's Own A Mysogynist’s Source Book, Fidelis Morgan.
Madison, Wisconsin Hye n Fa es m i in n i sP me ,t t i Aco na gt es l, a A N e L uo sto ak t t ea rt . Twenty Years of
September, 1989 The Demon Lover: On the Sexuality of Terrorism,
1 S be yr io Su hs e bP al e a Fs eu mre i: n isL te s b Pi ra en s s .Erotica, ed. and pub. The RR W oo shb ai o ln l ie n d M T o r Cr u og t wa hn a: r. dT .he Myth of Alternative Health,
2 Fried Green Tomatoes at the Whistle Stop Cafe,
Fanny Flagg, McGraw-Hill. The Working Mother’s Survival Guide, Jill Black.
After the Fire, Jane Rule, Naiad Press. Children of the Future: The Battle for Britain’s
DB ar ne cat eh i on fg AL nes gs eo rn , s , H aA rn rn iee t T Ly erle nr e. r, Harper & Row. Whic S hc h Coo rl as f, t ? F , r a Sn hc ae ns . Morrell.
A U Beyond Codependency, Melody Beattie, Harper FICTION
& Row. Sexing the Cherry, Jeanette Winterson.
7 Mama Day, Gloria Naylor, Random House. Summer People, Marge Piercy.
8 Tracks, Louise Erdrich, Harper & Row. Waverly Place, Susan Brownmiller.
9 Eva Luna, Isabel Allende, Bantam. Empire of the Senseless, Kathy Acker.
0 Wildfire, Sonia Johnson, Wildfire Books. Wave Me Goodbye: Stories of the Second World
1 Annie On My Mind, Nancy Garden, Farrar, War, Anne Boston, ed.
Strauss & Giroux. The Truth About Lorin Jones, Alison Lurie.
LDesboian v Beedti.m e St:ories, Terry Woodrow, Tough Sweet Desserts, Lucy Ellmann.
I'm Dying Laughing, Christina Stead.
Lesbian Love Stories, Irene Zahava, Crossing No Telephone to Heaven, Michelle Cliff.
Press. Ancestors, Robyn Davidson.
14 Beloved, Toni Morrison, Viking. Baumgartner’s Bombay, Anita Desai.
15 Sister Outsider, Audre Lorde, Crossing Press. The Cloning of Joanna May, Fay Weldon. O
59
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:23 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
An Exciting New Voice in Feminist Literature
FRAGMENTS I SAVED
FROM THE FIRE
Stories by Mary Anne Ashley
Stories that illuminate the lives of the women and men who exist on the fringes:
free-thinkers, activists, survivors—too often unrecorded—too frequently forgotten.
From Salinas to Sacramento to Sonoma, Ashley offers a view of California not
available to the casual observer.
"This is a great book written not in
Patriarch prose, but in the rhythm, love,
and beauty of the Matriarchy."
Meridel Le Sueur—
"Lucid evocations of human emotion
and event, both compassionate and wise,
peopled by a gang of vivid characters
always on the edge of an explosion.
Ashley, with her distinctive prose, holds
a match to the fuse."
Don Meredith—
Author of Morning Line
"There is not a trace of formula in her
writing. It is her voice one hears and you
know what it meant to be alive—in
FR AFGMREONTMS I STAVHEDE an oFthIeRr Eti m eB aendn an oMtheor r prlaecea."le—
Author of Down and Out in Academia
0-918949-06-8 $9.00 Paperback
Available from Inland, Bookpeople, Moving Books, and Baker & Taylor
or Papier-Mache Press - 795 Via Manzana - Watsonville CA 95076 (408) 726-2933
November/December 1989 60 Volume 12 Number 4
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:23 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Compiled by Carol Seajay occasion. It's a resource that will be useful to a range
of people from experienced mega-concert producers
annou nM co emst e no tf s t th oe Fw Bo Nm e fn o’ rs op ur re s s Fe as l l g o At n nt oh ue nir c e mfa el nl t sbook t 0o -9 0f 8i 7r 7st 4- -t 3i -m 6.e 4 p 0r %o d u foce rr s 1 0o +f (Csm ODal l o nev lyen t +s . p $ o1 s5 ta.9 g5 e ) . p b R, ed-
issue so this will be a short column with just a few wood Records, PO Box 10408, Oakland CA 94610.
“catch-up” listings. 415-835-1445 or your WILD Distributor (Women’s In-
dependent Label Distributors).
Creation Story by Hawk Madrone is an elegant
and lovely 16-page, self-published, hand-sewn book
written, typeset, designed, illustrated, printed and
hand-bound by women for the lesbian imagination in
all women who need a good, women-centered,
woman-loving creation story. $5.50. 40% bookstore
discount on 5+ copies. Fly Away Home Organics, PO
Box 593, Myrtle Creek OR 97457.
Redwood Record’s Note by Note: A Guide to
Concert Production is a hefty 8 1/2 x 11, 274 page
book detailing organizing, publicizing and producing
concerts and other events. Written especially for
grassroots organizations, it has detailed sections of The 1990 Ladyslipper Catalog: Resource
fundraising, budgets, public relations, staging, sound, Guide/Recordings by Women is out and in hand.
lights, care and feeding of performing artists, accessi- This is the world’s most wonderful guide to women’s
bility, child-care and includes forms for almost every music! It also includes videos and audio-cassettes of
feminist writers reading their prose or poetry and a
Bookpeople and Inland distribute small press books to large variety of records, videos and cassettes for child-
bookstores. Both distributors stock a wide range of titles and ren. If you haven't already received your Ladyslipper
publishers of interest to feminist bookstores. If you are a new Catalog and their wholesale order form & price list,
store or don't already work with both distributors, drop drop everything and call for a copy. Stock extra copies
everything and call for catalogs. of the catalog in your record bins with a note posted
IN at the end of an annotation means that the title is that you'll be glad to special order (through Ladyslip-
distributed by Inland (Order number: 800-243-0138. In per or your WILD distributor) anything that custom-
Canada and Connecticut call collect: 203-468-0589. PO ers find in the catalog and want. Ladyslipper can also
Box 261, 254 Bradley St., East Haven CT 06512.) provide bookstores with in-store playing copies of
peoCple .B P PA h m one ea :n s 8 0t 0 h -a 9t 99 9 -t 4h 6e45 0t . it 2l7e 9s 2 9 a 1r Fe i f d t0his t r Si tb..,u t e Bd e r kb ey lO e yB ,ook- ym oa un ry W r Ie Lc Dor d ds i s tt rh ia bt u t y oro .u L a ar de yn s't li p a pl er re ,a d Py O r Bec oe xi v i 3n 1g 2 4 ,from
Durham NC 27715. 1-800-634-6044.
Volume 12 Number 4 61 November /December 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:23 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
The Woman Inside: From Incest Victim to Sur- Kicking the Habit: A Lesbian Nun Story by
vivor, a workbook for incest survivors by Patty Derosier Jeanne Cordova picks up where her story in Lesbian
Barnes, was announced for last spring but has just ar- Nuns left off. Cordova is a gay rights activist and was
rived. “A workbook as practical as Betty Crocker’s cook- the publisher of The Lesbian Tide (1971-1980). Kicking
books” designed to help survivors work through some the Habit covers her transition from a naive young
of the confusion, pain and hurt. It includes mental lists, novice from the Republican suburbs of Southern Cal-
emotional recipes, questions with space to write in an- ifornia to ex-nun from an order that left the Catholic
swers and basic information about incest and the com- Church in 1975 and foreshadows Jeanne’s activism in
mon patterns of incest. The goal of the book is to help the Gay Rights Movement and her return to her spir-
incest victims alleviate stress, anxiety and anger and ituality twenty years later in the 1980’s New Age
make the transition from “incest victims” to “incest sur- movement. Funny, lightweight, serious, analytical,
vivors.” This book grew out of survivors group therapy insightful, easy-to-read and just in time for the gift-
sessions at Women In Safe Homes (WISH), a shelter for giving season. Forward by Nancy Manahan and
battered women and children in Ketchikan, Alaska. Rosemary Curb. Kicking the Habit is the premiere
$11.95 pb, 0-941300-13- 7. Mother Courage Press, 1533 release from Multiple Dimensions, a new gay and
Illinois St, Racine WI 53405. BP & IN. lesbian publishing house based in Hollywood, Cal-
Women’s Health Perspectives, Volume One
The first volume of this landmark series describes the available literature
emphasizing women as active and knowledgeable pariicipanis in their own
health care, and the connection of that health care information to the quality of
their lives.
Topics reflect a new view of reproductive matters, a consideralion of how
societal välues shape diagnosis and treatment, and the concerns of women
at various life stages. Health care is examined both from the individual's
perspective and in terms of systems issues.
Over 450 sources are described in detailled, evaluative annotations, accompanied
by an additional 300 bibliographic citations.
About the Editors
CarolJ. Leppa is an editorial assistant for JONA’s Nursing Scan in Administra-
tion and a research assistant in women’s health. Connie Miller is science
librarian, University of Illinois at Chicago.
$14.95 trade pa 256p ISBN 0912078-85-5
“...a unique work...combines a female point of view wilh an interdisciplinaty
approach lo an importanti subject area...of interesti to health care professionals,
Women’s Access to Health Information librarians in healih science, social science, women's studies, and pubiic libraries."
Women and Mental Health BOOKLIST
Women and Body Image
Women, Alcohol and Drugs a“A t c l oas mt, p a u tw eay r t o s e k ae rep c h u ,p t mo ed dat ie c ain l th lie b g rr ao rw yin ,g f oie rld hof o uw rom s e n o's f h e a rlt eh s e w ai rth co .u t Packs amazing amounts
RW eo pm roe dn u’s c t iS ve ex u Hal ei at ly th o bf o i on kfo r m ra eti gon u l i an rto l y o n e i n v o lu mme y, s u wm om rar kiz e d a sb y a e x p per hts y sin i c ie aac nh f aie nld d. I lw ei cl t u us re e t rh .i s Highly recommended for
Gnin ev health professionals, scholars, students, feminists - and palients.”
Health of Older omen Sadja Greenwood, M.D.
Women as Health Care Providers VOLCANO Author, MENOPAUSE NATURALLY
STEA + PRESS * VOLUMES TWO AND THREE
Women and Abuse
Women and Cancer LS ÅVAILABLE ON STANDING ORDER
Osteoporosis
November/December 1989 62 Volume 12 Number 4
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:23 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
ifomia. Future publications will include biographies cians in the 19th century. $5.50 pb, 80 pgs, 0-940208-
and autobiographies by and about prominent con- 12-1. Down There Press, PO Box 2086, Burlingame CA
temporary and historical gay men and lesbians, in- 94011. BP, IN, etc.
cluding political activists, cultural figures and
spiritual leaders. For more information contact Caryn From the further shores:
Goldberg or Jeanne Cordova, Multiple Dimensions, Fresh Oceans is Stramullion’s second collection
1604 Vista del Mar, Los Angeles CA 90028. 1-213-469- of poetry from women in Scotland and is the most
4 co4 p5 i4 e. s .$9.95, 0-9625080-0-4, 40% discount for 5 or more e fx rt oe mn s i Sv ce o t c lao nll de .c t i Io tn o fo ff e rc so n at ne m ep xo cr ita ir ny g w mo im x e n o’ fs wpo oe rt kr y from
new and established writers that explores the unusual
Women in Social Protest: The U.S. Since 1915 is and everyday in moods and language that range from
a collection of 22 powerful photographic postcards in a the lyrical to the satirical, spiced every now and then
portfolio style book from Helaine Victoria Press. The with a very female humor. £3.95 pb, 0 907343 09 0.
postcards feature African-American women in the Hens in the Hay was published by Stramullion in 1980.
1940's picketing the White House to end lynching, Stramullion, 11a Forth Street, Edinburgh EH1 3LE,
Chinese women in San Francisco protesting cutbacks in Scotland. U.S. bookstores can order from Turnaround
childcare funding, a 1915 women’s suffrage parade in Distribution, 27 Horsell Road, London N5 1XL, Eng-
New York City, lesbians in the 1987 Lesbian and Gay land or from West & Wilde.
March in Washington DC. Researched by Jocelyn H.
Cohen, Ellen Dwyer and Jean C. Robinson with research
and photographs from over 30 individuals and archives.
$8.95, 0-9623911-0-7. Also available individually at 60¢ Attic Press (Ireland) has gone from publishing six
each. Order from Helaine Victoria Press, 411 E. 4th St., books a year to 20 — including 14 this fall and 35 next
Bloomington IN 47401 or from Inland. year with plans for 100 books a year within five years.
They've shifted distribution strategies to selling rights
Crazy Ladies Bookstore has published a com- in the U.S. for some of their titles, (i.e., the recent sale
memorative poster by Sara Steele honoring its tenth of the rights to Peggy Deery to Cleis Press) rather than
anniversary and women’s bookstores everywhere. distributing books directly (via Inland and Book-
Full color. $15.00 retail + $1.00 postage. Call or write people) as soon as they are published, so we won't be
for bookstore terms. Crazy Ladies Bookstore, 4039 getting all of Attic’s publications as quickly as we did
Hamilton Ave. Cincinnati OH 45223. 513-541-4198. in the past. Hopefully U.S. publication of some of their
titles will result in better publicity and therefore wider
Down There Press has a new improved, updated distribution and sales.
edition of Good Vibrations: The Complete Guide to Ailbhe Smyth is Attic’s new editor; Clare Casey
Vibrators by Joani Blank with foreword by Betty Dod- has joined Attic in administration. They join Emer
son and illustrations by Marcia Quackenbush. It’s a Dolphin (sales and marketing) and Roisin Conroy.
user-friendly guide to using and thoosing vibrators, Emer represented Attic at Frankfurt this year.
care and cleaning, what to do if you think you're Attic’s fall novels include Night Train to Mother
over-using your vibrator, using vibrators alone and by Ronit Lentin, a compelling passionately told family
with partners, where to buy vibrators, and how the history of four generations of Jewish women; There
vibrator evolved as a labor-saving device for physi- We Have Been by Leland Bardwell, “a poignant,
November /December 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:23 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
From New Victoria Romance Attic Press, 44 East Essex St., Dublin 2, Ireland.
by Frances Lucas Pandora Press’ (U.K.) fall titles include Being
pR Fed I SB N i 0t-9h3467 8- 21t-9h $8 .95 - Fat Is Not a Sin by Shelley Bovey, a book about
losing guilt rather than losing weight and the damag-
ing social prejudice against fat women (£4.99 pb);
uois :a bane t S i dpneeyi t G arirett makes Toddler!: The Good! The Bad! The Snuggly!, Ros
a long shot bid for mayor. Asquith’s definitive guide to surviving the under 5's
in cartoon format (£3.99 pb); Living With A Drinker
' Enter conservative, naive by Mary Wilson in association with the Scottish coun-
é : ‘societ y4 fgoirrdl ’ ,w hJo o avnol u nStteaenrs- for c afil f eo cn te d A l bc yoh o sl o m f eo or n ep e eo lp sl ee 's w dh ro inse k i nli gv e s (£ 4ar .9e 9 s per bi ,o u Nsl oy v);
E Sidney’s campaign on a a paperback edition of the Gluck biography by Diana
whim. She soon finds herself wanting more in- Souhami; and Sue Johnston: Hold on to the Messy
volvement—with the campaign and its issues Times ($11.95 pb, 004440497-2), a collection of tales by
and, strangely—with Sidney the popular TV series star of Brookside.
Other Pandora titles include Amazons and Mili-
Attracted to Joan as well, Sidney maintains tary Maids: Women who Dressed as Men in Pursuit
her distance until election day draws near and of Life, Liberty, and Happiness by Julie Wheelwright
events take surprising and unsettling turns as ($24.95 cl, 004403569); The Past is Before Us: Femi-
Joan and Sidney must make some unexpected nism in Action Since the 1960's by highly esteemed
choices. feminist theorist and historian Sheila Rowbotham
Order from New Victoria Publishers, ($24.95 cl, 0-04-440365- 8); Infertility: Women Speak
P.O. Box 27, Norwich, Vt. 05055 N £ Out About Their Experiences of Reproductive Med-
icine edited by Renate D. Klein ($10.95 pb,
superbly subtle new novel by an extraordinarily 0044403674); a new edition of Test-Tube Women: What
talented writer”; Stairs in the Daytime by Evelyn Future for Motherhood edited by New Words co-
Conlon, “an evocative, warm and humorous first founder Rita Arditti, Renate D. Klein and Shelley
novel”; and Wildish Things: An Anthology of New Minden $11.95 pb, 0044404298); Motherhood: What It
Irish Women’s Writings edited by Ailbhe Smyth. Does to Your Mind by Jane Price ($10.95 pb, 0-8635-
Handbooks include Body Matters for Women by 8211-7); Blood at the Root: Motherhood, Sexuality &
Aine McCarthy (health and fitness); Separation & Male Dominance by Ann Ferguson ($14.95 pb,
Divorce Matters for Women by Dervla Browne, the 00440445X).
first handbook on the subject for Irish women from a
woman's viewpoint; and Business Matters for
Women by Joyce O'Connor and Helen Ruddle. Other CALENDARS
titles include Women and Poverty by Mary Daly, The Herstory 1990: The Canadian Women’s Cal-
Attic Quiz Book by Grainne Healy and Patricia endaris the 15th anniversary edition of the Saskatoon
O'Connor, The Irishwomen’s Guidebook & Diary, Women’s Calendar Collective. It’s a spiral-bound
LIP, Ancient Wars: Sex and Sexuality by Ethna Viney, desk calendar featuring biographies of Canadian
A Kind of Scar: The Woman Poet in a National Tradi- woman, historical entries and notes, discussions on
tion by Eavan Boland, Has The Red Flag Fallen? The contemporary issues, poetry by Libby Oughton and
Fate of Socialism in the 1990’s by Helena Sheehan, historical and contemporary photographs and il-
and Pornography: The New Terrorism by Clodagh lustrations. This year’s edition includes weekly “up-
Corcoran. dates” on the doings of women featured in previous
Watch for these titles to show up at Inland and/or calendars. $8.95, 0-919926-94-0. Distributed by
with various publishers. FBN will pass the word to Coteau Books (see From the Small Presses), Suite 209,
you as we hear it. 1945 Scarth St., Regina Saskatchewan S4P 2H2. O
November/December 1989 64 Volume 12 Number 4
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:23 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsЕетіпіѕє ВооКѕіоге Меууѕ
Г ВООКЅТОВЕЅ с
НОШОАҮ ЅРЕСІАІ
АМҮ 5ТОСК ОКОЕВ ВЕСЕІУЕО ВЕҒОВЕ
ОЕСЕМВЕК 24, 1989, ТАКЕ 50% ОІЅСОЦМТ.
ІҒ ҮОО СІТЕ ТНІ$ АО ЅРЕСІРІСАШ Ү, ҮОЦ
САМ ІМСІООЕ
ІНЕ ВЕУЕКІҮ МАШВО
ІМ ТНЕ 509% 5РЕСІАС ОРҒҒЕВ-..-..
ОТНЕКМИЅЕ, КЕРШ 5 ОМ ТНАТ ОМЕ ТІТІЕ
МИШ. КЕМАЇМ АТ ТНЕ ЅРЕСІАГ 45% ОҒҒЕВ.
УУАТСН ҒОК МЕУ САТАГОС ...
ОО МОТ ОІСАКО ІТ!
^$ СООО ҒОВ ОМЕ ЕОШ. ҮЕАВ
Тһе М№аіада РгеѕЅ5, Іпс.
Р.О. Вох 10543 • Таһаһаѕѕее, Ғ1. 32302 • (904) 539-5965
М№аіаа Ргеѕѕ іѕ епаіпд 1989 миїїһ а Бапод!
Уоїште 12 МитЬег 4 65 МоуетЬег / ОесетЬег 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:23 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsNEWSAGE. PRESS
FALL ORELE AS EBS
Exposures, Women & Their Art
By Betty Ann Brown & Arlene Raven
Photographs by Kenna Love
50 Artists Profiles & Portraits in Full Color, 10 x 10
Softcover $24.95, ISBN 0-939165-11-2 **Clothbound $39.95, ISBN 0-939165-10-4
An American sampler of contemporary women artists with the text exploring
the personal and artistic lives of these women, and the photographs
capturing the spirit of the artists in relationship to their work. An insightful
and beautiful book that gives contemporary women artists the recognition
they deserve.
Common Heroes, Facing a Life Threatening Illness
By Eric Blau, M.D.
Endorsed by The National Hospice Organization and Dr. Elisabeth Kubler-Ross
96 pages, 36 interviews with photos, 7 x 10
$15.95 Softcover, ISBN 0-939165-12-0
“Common Heroes is an opportunity to explore with everyday people the pain, sorrow, anger
and even the humor when death touches us through those we love. This is an important book
and one that should be remembered and talked about because it makes the reader see death
as part of life.” National Hospice Organization
A Portrait of American Mothers & Daughters
By Raisa Fastman
128 pp. 84 Photos and Text, 10 x 10
Softcover $22.95, ISBN 0-939165-04-X
“. . .a moving but unsentimental statement about this primary bond.” Booklist, ALA
Women & Work, Photographs and Personal Writings
By Maureen R. Michelson & Michael Dressler
180 pp. 85 profiles and 100 photos, 8⁄2 x 11
Softcover $22.95, ISBN 0-939165-01-5
“. . .a refreshing alternative to the current flood of literature advising female
workers.” Booklist, ALA
Distributors: Ingram, Baker & Taylor, Bookpeople, Inland Books
Order directly from
NEWSAGE PRESS
P.O. Box 41029 • Pasadena, CA 91114 ° (818) 795-0266
66 Volume 12 Number 4
November /December 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:23 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
—
By Tee Corinne book to be. Each of the 50 artists is represented by a
page of text facing a full page color photo showing the
What a wonderful time for women’s art books artist with her work. Often using time-lapse and mul-
and magazines these last few months have been! tiple exposures, the photographer interprets the style,
Exposures, Women & Their Art, photographs by spirit and look of the art and artists. The effect is
Kenna Love, text by Betty Ann Brown & Arlene spectacular. Other NewSage Press titles include
Raver, has just arrived and it is as beautiful], thought- Women & Work, A Portrait of American Mothers &
ful and inclusive as anyone could wish a feminist art Daughters, and The New Americans. It is a joy to
have these books coming from a woman’s press.
NewSage Press, PO Box 41029, Pasadena CA 91104,
$24.95 pb, 0-939165-11-2; $39.95 c], 0-939165-10-4,
standard bookstore terms, dist. by IN, BP, Ingram and
Baker & Taylor.
Photojournalist Diana Davies, many of whose
images are familiar to feminist readers, has just
brought out a book called Photojourney. Trade paper
in size, it is made up of 100 b&w photographs which
carry the viewer back and forth from the sixties to the
eighties, among well known and anonymous faces.
With a loving eye, Davies has documented the lives of
street people, musicians, individuals in the Peace
Movement, human rights movements, the Civil
Rights Movement, and the Women’s Movement. Bag
Lady Press, PO Box 462, Belfast ME 04915, $16 pb (acid
free paper), 0-9622432-0-5. 40% for 5-19 copies, 20%
for 2-4, 45% for 20+. Prepaid only. No distributors.
Constance Stuart Larrabee, WW II Photojournal
is the newest release from the National Museum of
Women in the Arts. The photos, even those of death,
have a fine beauty to them. Larrabee’s journal en-
tries touch on the realities of typhoid, lice and the
pleasures of a bed with sheets. NMWA, 1250 New
1989 Di a Davies from PYhotoojourrneky Avenue N.W., Washington D.C. 20005, $15.95
pb, 0-940979-08-X. 40% for 10+ books. Also dis-
tributed by Baker &Taylor.
El Arte De/The Art Of Rini Templeton: Where
There Is Life And Struggle presents the work of
67 November / December 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:23 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
activist/artist Templeton (1935-1986) who con- loosely associated with the Bloomsbury group who
tributed easy-to-reproduce graphics to many kept getting emotionally involved in passionate,
humanitarian /liberation causes, the kind of images mostly asexual, triangles. Her work has been
that would look great in off our backs. The parallel largely overlooked and now seems to be coming up
Spanish and English text tells of an exceptionally for reevaluation. The book is a fascinating study of
warm, caring, intelligent woman using her artistic a woman artist's struggle to believe in the impor-
gifts for social justice. The Real Comet Press/Centre tance of her art. W. W. Norton, $24.95 cl, 0-393-
de Documentation Grafica Rini Templeton, $14.95 pb, 02698-1.
0-941104-24-9. BF, IN, etc. Dogs and their Women by Barbara Cohen and
Louise Taylor is a photo book that made me laugh and
cry and feel warm and loving. On facing pages women
are shown with their dogs and tell the reader about
those very special relationships. It’s an excellent gift
book. Little, Brown and Co., $9.95 pb ($11.95 in
Canada), 0-316-15036-3.
Rarely do I mention books by men in this column,
but one that I have raved about in the past has just
been made available by Daedalus at a terrific savings.
The Sexual Perspective: Homosexuality and Art in
the Last 100 Years in the West by Emmanuel Cooper
is excellent, has lots of information about lesbian ar-
tists, is full of photos, and is an essential text for
anyone interested in women’s and lesbian art. $6.98
(down from $17.95) pb, #90841.
Also in the current Daedalus catalog is Jane Freil-
icher: Paintings which I reviewed last issue and Fran-
coise Gilot: An Artist's Journey about a contemporary
painter who lived for many years with Picasso, bilingual
English/French. $9.98 (down from $29.95) pb, #90986.
Bookstore terms: 50% for 50+ books or $100 net. 40% for
10-49 books. Non-returnable. Daedalus, PO Box 9132,
Hyattsville MD 20781-0932.
I know that many of you already carry Grand-
The Mayan Revival Style, Art Deco Mayan Fan- daughters of Corn, Portraits of Guatemalan
tasy by Marjorie Ingle is a bargain and a beauty. It Women by Marilyn Anderson and Jonathan Gar-
documents the use of Mayan designs in architecture lock, but I want to recommend it to any who don’t.
and crafts between 1908 and WW II. The narration, It combines lovely, expressive photographs with a
color and b&w photos, and drawings make an inter- text that recounts “incredible cruelty against the
esting and compelling presentation. For those of us poor and the powerless, especially the Indian
more trained in the influence of European design, it is women.” Strong points are made about our support
a pleasure to see this handling of the arts of the Amer- and training of the counterinsurgency troops who
icas. The University of New Mexico Press, $17.95 pb, have carried out the vicious attacks for the govern-
0-8263-1143-1. ment and come up with diabolical tortures of their
Toni Morrison says of Carrington, A Life by own. Curbstone Press, dist. by Talman, $19.95 pb,
Gretchen Holbrook Gerzina that it “is a striking bio- 0-915306-60-3.
graphy: moving, thorough and intelligent. A rare The Nude, A New Perspective by Gill Saunders
blend of scholarship and compelling narrative.” I is a fine historical overview of the ways that men have
agree. Carrington (1893-1932) was a British painter pictured nude women, ending with an examination of
November /December 1989 68 Volume 12 Number 4
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:23 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
the ways women portray and write about female nu-
dity. Harper & Row, $16.95 pb, 0-06-430189-3; $27.95
c], 0-06-438508-6.
New in paper is Georgia O'Keeffe, Art and Let- CACTUS
ters, a handsome and lavishly illustrated volume that
for awhile in both the ordinariness and the extraordi- THORN
nariness of O'Keeffe’s life. O'Keeffe’s letters are fasci-
nating and often read like poetry. Little, Brown and A novella by Mary Austin
DC io a. n, a $ R2 &9 e . c 9 e N5 n i t k lp oyb n , , r e0 Ei- ss8 ss2 au1 ye2 d s- , 1 o 7 a n6 l 7 t - h t4 o h. u eg h A e o stn hly et i cin o fh a r Pd hb oa tc ok g, r ai -s W Meit loh d y a Gfo rr auew lico hrd and afterword by
phy by Janet Malcolm. Most of these essays originally 121 pages, hardcover, $15.95
appeared in The New Yorker and most of the pho- “Austin has combined the limpid, bone-deep
tographers discussed are male, yet this volumn re- prose of her finest landscape writing with a
mains an important document in feminist aesthetics: complex psychological portrait of a love affair,
a prominent woman critic looking carefully and writ- producing what must surely rank as a new classic
ing thoughtfully, helping to lead by example. David of western American literature.”
R. Godine, $17.95 cl, 0-87923-273-0. —Pamela Herr,
A Grace of Sense, The Sculpture of Joan Sovern, San Francisco Review of Books
photos by David Finn, text by Dena Merriam, shows
the mostly abstract work of a sculptor who, by choice,
has worked quietly for thirty years, consciously WESTERN
avoiding public attention. The sculptures are quiet
and lovely. Black Swan Books Ltd., PO Box 327, Red- TRAILS
ding Ridge CT 06876, 203-938-9548. $25.00 cl, 0-
933806-54-X, 20% for 1-3 copies, 40% for 4+. IN,
Bookslinger, Small Press Distributors. A Collection of Short Stories by
Eye To Eye, The Camera Remembers, Potfirait Mary Austin
Photographs by Renate Ponsold is one of those beau- Selected and annotated by
tiful books that I wish had been produced with a bit Melody Graulich
more of a woman's bookstore market in mind. For 307 pages, hardcover, $24.95
instance, they might have put a photo of a woman “These short stories are timeless reading. They
instead of a bearded man on the cover and they also are a testimony to Austin’s lifelong concern with
might have included a few more famous women women. ... Austin may be the most quotable
along with the famous men. I grump, but I think the woman of North American letters in this
fault is in the packaging, not the material they were century.”
given to work with. As it is, there are striking studies —Lynne Bundesen,
of a number of women artists: Lee Krasner, Alice Neel, Los Angeles Times
Joan Mitchell, Elaine de Kooning, Louise Nevelson,
Sonia Delaunay, Hedda Sterne and Marisol. The book Available at your local bookstore, or from
is beautifully produced. Hudson Hills Press, $19.95
pb, 1-55595-005-1. NEVADA At
The fall issue of Gallerie: Women’s Art just University of Nevada Press
arrived and it is as spectacular as all the other issues Reno, NV 89557 (702) 784-6573
of Cthis neawest n womena’s ardt magaazine. ha ve b een.O
Dist. by BP and Ubiquity in the U.S. and CPPA in
69 November /December 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:23 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsa s IsFeY I NacGo mTEaSe =T hThee LLiives
aA)
Marriage and The Politics of Rape
L0) 3NEYIN. XA “A powerful and swift-paced I4
is s 1 0S O wCoIEmTeYn kbiollo ka n da b wouhta t whhapyp e nbsattered O Ommen
to them when they do...essential
reading”
— Phyllis Chesler, Ph.D., author of Women and
Madness and Mothers on Trial
LENORE E. WALKER
NO S SAAS aA ONA
“Annie Dillard is a
wonderful writer and
The Writing Life is full
of joys.’
— Sara Maitland, New York Times
“A deeply enriching “A small and brilliant Book Review
GpoErtSraAit .’ s-Mcaadpeem o iosefll e ag u idwebrooikt e tro' s t h et a lsankd.-’
Exciting...Roxana `N- Gail Caldwell, Boston Globe
wRo rb iti en rs o n to, t hh ae v e f i tr hs et > A New York Times
cooperation of O'Keeffe’s a Bestseller
family, writes compellingly.
- Cosmopolitan
An Edward Burlingame Book
from
Harper & Row
November /December 1989 70 Volume 12 Number 4
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:23 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
<S
In case you missed it: Virginia Hamilton’s excel-
lent YA fantasy trilogy was recently reprinted by Har-
court Brace Jovanovich, in paper I hope: Justice and
Her Brothers, Dustland, and The Gathering.
Suzy McKee Charnas’ Walk to the End of the
World and Motherlines have just been printed in
one volume by Women’s Press/U.K. Unfortunately, November.
although both books have been OP here since early The Renegades of Pern, by Anne McCaffrey,
in the decade, it’s not available for U.S. circula- price n/a, cl. November.
tion. Charnas writes that she is again contemplat-
ing the long-awaited and still-unwritten third
book in the projected trilogy; look for Walk and A
Motherlines when the third volume is done or
when the author decides conclusively that there
won’t be one. BANTAM/SPECTRA
The Healer’s War, by Elizabeth Ann Scar-
ACE borough, $4.50. The Vietnam war from the perspective
Falcon, by Emma Bull, $3.95. Glowingly re- of an Army nurse: too gritty and real to be fantasy; too
viewed in Locus, though the main characters seem to appalling to be real. The author has said that she
be men. I include it because I enjoyed her previous incorporated a fantasy element (an amulet that aug-
fantasy (War for the Oaks, set in contemporary Min- ments Nurse Kitty McCulley’s perceptions) because
neapolis) so much, and hope to include a fuller report realism “would have required that an unarmed Amer-
next issue. ican woman in hostile territory with only a Viet-
The Outlaws of Sherwood, by Robin McKinley, namese child amputee as a companion would be
$3.95. Vivid imagining of the Robin Hood legend by killed within the first couple pages.” The technique
an excellent fantasy writer (The Hero and the Crown, The works; don’t miss this book.
Blue Sword), with several adventurous women charac- The City, Not Long After, by Pat Murphy, price
ters — not just Marian! — and a cameo appearance by n/a. Paperback reprint. The city is San Francisco, the
a pair of female companion lover outlaws. time is not long after the collapse of the U.S. as we
know it. February.
BALLANTINE/DEL REY
Rusalka, by C. J. Cherryh, $18.95 cl. A solitary DAW BOOKS
wizard in a weird and dangerous Russian forest is Domains of Darkover, ed. by Marion Zimmer
obsessed with restoring his dead daughter to life; to Bradley, price n/a, probably paperback. Another an-
assist, he enlists a playboy turned fugitive and a thology of Darkover stories, and if previous collec-
stableboy with untrained magical gifts. Despite posi- tions are a guide, mostly by women and mostly very
tive reviews, you can safely pass this one by. good. March.
71 November / December 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:23 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Gate of Darkness, Circle of Light, by Tanya Moon, her nemesis and alter-ego, stands against her
Huff, $3.95. The archetypal battle of darkness and in this thoroughly pagan epic peopled with grand
light arrives in contemporary Toronto and catches themes and memorable characters. Recommended.
up an odd assortment of champions. November. Rimrunners, by C.J. Cherryh, price n/a, pb.
Worth-carrying tale of a down-and-out spacer who
DOUBLEDAY/FOUNDATION ships out with the motley crew of a bounty hunter.
Grass, by Sheri S. Tepper, $18.95 cl. The Locus February.
reviewer raved about this; however, she also gives Imago, by Octavia E. Butler, price n/a, pb. Last of
Tepper’s Gate to Women's Country more credit than it the Xenogenesis trilogy (after Dawn and Adulthood
deserves. The aptly named planet Grass is ruled by a Rites); sf doesn’t get much better than this. March.
haughty landed gentry of Earth origin; two emissaries
from Earth (now dominated by “a mutant form of TOR
Mormonism” — sounds like fun) travel thither in Inferno, by Louise Cooper, $3.95. Second (after
search of a cure to a deadly plague. Tepper’s charac- Nemesis) in the compelling series of Indigo, a princess
ters and plotting skill have received special mention. who in ignorance and arrogance unleashed demons
You may want to wait for the paperback. on the world and is doomed to travel unaging until
she has undone the mischief. Infanta, number 3, is due
in February. Recommended.
RAs Magic in Ithkar 3, ed. by Andre Norton and
Robert Adams, $3.95. Anthology of light, enjoyable
fantasy stories set in the “shared world” of Ithkar Fair.
FEMINIST PRESS Thirteen of the 17 tales are by women, including
The End of This Day's Business, by Katharine Mercedes Lackey, Morgan Llywelyn, Susan Schwartz,
Burdekin, $8.95. Written in the late 1930s and now and Kiel Stuart.
published for the first time, this is set in the far future The Coelura, by Anne McCaffrey, $3.95. Paper-
of Burdekin’s Swastika Night. Here enlightened back reprint of a space romance complete with titled
women rule and, to avoid the patriarchal excesses of the lady — “a truffle,” said one review, referring to the
past, men are kept in subservient ignorance. Despite a chocolate variety. Carry it if your customers include
protagonist of immense potential — an elder artist who McCaffrey fans.
undertakes the traitorous task of teaching men that The New Atlantis, by Ursula K. Le Guin, $3.50.
they are fully human — I found it primarily of histori- This 1975 “novelette” juxtaposes a seedy U.S. near-
cal interest and less than involving as a vision of the future (in which marriage is socially unacceptable)
future or critique of female supremacy. Feminist Press with the slow rising of a submerged land. Paired in
is offering a 50% discount on Swastika Night when this “double” with Kim Stanley Robinson's much-
ordered with Business. December. longer, Nebula-winning novella The Blind Geometer.
NAL/SIGNET AA
The Throne of Scone, The Copper Crown, and
The Silver Branch, by Patricia Kennealy, price n/a, all
presumably in some kind of paper. Science fantasy
Keltiad trilogy, of a Celtic flavored empire beyond the White Jenna, by Jane Yolen, $17.95 cl. Sequel to
stars. The first two were good stuff; the third as I recall the raved-about Sister Light, Sister Dark, a fantasy of
is a prequel. three warriors who serve the White Queen and her
alter-ego Skada, Queen of the Night.
POPULAR LIBRARY/QUESTAR Women of Darkness, ed. by Kathryn Ptacek, $3.95.
The Snow Queen, by Joan D. Vinge, $4.95. Re- Paperback reprint of the well-received anthology of
print of a 1980 classic. Arienrhod, the corrupt queen, “original horror and dark fantasy by contemporary
schemes to keep her throne past the appointed time; women writers,” including Tanith Lee and Lisa Tuttle. O
November /December 1989 Volume 12 Number 4
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:23 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
By Jane L. Troxell Among the fine books of poetry to appear this
Lambda Rising season are Assotto Saint's Stations, Thomas O'Neil’s
Sex with God, and Robert Glück’s Reader. Stations
NEW TITLES — GENERAL INTEREST (Galiens Press, $7.00 pb, 0962167509) offers 26 selec-
Penguin Books is playing up the gay and, espe- tions of Saint's poetic musings on interracial gay love,
cially, mainstream success (three printings) of David AIDS, and the survival of a community. O'Neil’s beau-
B. Feinberg’s 1989 hardback bestseller Eighty-Sixed in tifully illustrated and finely printed collection rep-
order to promote the paperback edition of this first resents one gay poet's discourse with God on “faith,
novel (Penguin, $7.95, 0-14-011252-9, January). gay love, AIDS, and the Catholic Church.” (Indul-
Eighty-Sixed tells the story of B.J. Rosenthal who, in gence Press, $5.95 pb, 0-9622398-0-1) Glück’s
1980, only wanted to find a boyfriend. By 1986, B.J. is Reader (Lapis Press, $12.95 pb, 0-932499-66-X) com-
totally paranoid about AIDS, and (dark) humor be- prises short pieces of prose and poetry by one of
comes his only defense. An excellent first novel, America’s foremost gay poets, experimental writers
Eighty-Sixed is one of the most important works of and thinkers.
AIDS fiction yet to appear.
Author, editor, and publisher Stan Leventhal’s latest
takes place in present-day San Francisco — where some-
thing evil is beginning to fester. Faultlines (Banned
Books, $8.95 pb, 0-934411-26-3) tells the suspenseful and AIDS
often humorous tale of three very different individuals AIDS and Its Metaphors, Susan Sontag’s contro-
who team up to conquer the forces of evil. versial look at the epidemic, will appear in a paper-
Equal Affections by David Leavitt will appear in back volume accompanying her 1978 work, Illness As
paperback in January (Perennial Library, $8.95, 0-06- Metaphor (Doubleday, $8.95, 0-385-26705-3, January).
Together, the essays are charged with compassionate
Holly Near, and their father come to terms with the and liberating ideas about disease.
death of their sharp-tongued matriarch in this subur- Celestial Arts presents a guide to the emotional
ban novel. problems encountered in AIDS that is geared for both
Kvetch proves to be an apt title for T.R. Witom- the laity and for professionals. Face to Face: A Guide
ski's first collection of essays on gay life and culture. to AIDS Counseling by James W. Dilley, Cheri Pies,
With a wry wit and searing tongue, Witomski spares and Michael Helquist (Celestial Arts, $14.95 pb, 0-)
no “group, person or trend” — including writers, activ- covers, among other topics, the emotional responses
ists, and Bloomingdale's. John Preston provides the in- to HIV seropositivity, the psychological ramifications
troduction (Celestial Arts, $7.95 pb, 0-89087-578-2). of neurological problems in HIV disease, and the
Men of Color: An Essay on the Black Gay Male special needs of various affected populations, includ-
Couple by Vega Studios provides a rare and loving ing gay men, women, minority communities and IV-
look at the black gay male couple. Poetic prose is drug using groups.
entwined with a wide selection of affirming photos “Even before AIDS had a name, there were vol-
celebrating the love of black gay men (Vega Press, unteers to respond to it,” states the introduction to a
$10.00 pb, LC 89-50895). Available from Inland. new book on volunteerism in the age of AIDS, Simple
73 November /December 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:23 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Acts of Kindness (United Hospital Fund, $7.50 pb, UNIVERSITY PRESSES
0-934459-56-8). The book features personal narra- This winter, Duke University Press will publish
tives from volunteers as well as profiles of volunteer Displacing Homophobia: Gay Male Perspectives in
groups around the country. This inspirational col- Literature and Culture ($14.95 pb, 0-8223-0970-X).
lection strongly encourages individuals to volun- Editors Ronald R. Butters, John M. Clum, and Michael
teer in the fight against AIDS. Order from United Moon gather essays by a number of academicians
Hospital Fund, 55 Fifth Avenue, New York, NY committed to the replacement of homophobic dis-
10003. (Specify bookstore order to receive retailer course. Articles include “Willie and Wilde: Reading
discount of 40%.) The Portait of Mr. W. H.,” ” ‘Something Cloudy, Some-
thing Clear’: Homophobic Discourse in Tennessee
Williams,” and “The Plague of Discourse: Politics,
Literary Theory, and AIDS.”
To what extent and in what ways was homosex-
NONFICTION uality approved by the ancient Greeks? Classicist K.J.
“What is unique about gay male relation- Dover examines the evidence and reaches provocative
ships?” poses author Rik Insensee at the beginning conclusions in Greek Homosexuality (Harvard Uni-
of Love Between Men: Enhancing Intimacy and versity Press, $12.95 pb, 0-674-36270-5). A discussion
Keeping Your Relationship Alive (Prentice Hall, of lesbianism is also included in this reprint.
$18.95 cl, 0-13-540544-0, February). Insensee, an ex- Also from Harvard is Shattered Mirrors: Our
perienced counselor, addresses the uniqueness of Search for Identity and Community in the AIDS Era
male couples in a heterosexist society and tells ($19.95 cl, 0-674-80590-9). Author Monroe E. Price
couples how to communicate more effectively, how points out that, while AIDS may be eroding traditional
to handle their families’ reactions, and how to estab- barriers between church and state, government and
lish a family of their own. Included is advice on the media, and citizen and consumer, other barriers of
break-ups and couples’ counseling, and strategies class, race, and lifestyle are being bolstered by the
for dealing with the AIDS crisis. epidemic. Monroe debates the meaning of the changes
Howard Brown’s 1976 landmark, Familiar Faces, brought on by the disease.
Hidden Lives: The Story of Homosexual Men in
America Today, has been re-released with a new in- YOUNG ADULT
troduction from Randy Shilts (Harvest/ HBJ, $8.95 pb, A.M. Homes tells the story of Jack (Macmillan,
0-15-630120-2). The author, who died in 1975, speaks $13.95 cl, 0-02-744831-2), a 15-year-old whose life is
honestly and plainly about the realities of being a gay going great until his father tells him that he’s gay.
man in America. As Shilts notes in the introduction, Homes sensitively portrays the youth’s reaction,
“So much has changed since then [1976]. And yet so which includes nausea, macho overreaction, thoughts
little has changed.” of suicide and, finally, acceptance.
The trade edition of Victims No Longer: Men
Recovering from Incest and Other Childhood
Sexual Abuse by Mike Lew will be published not
by its hardcover publisher, small press Nevraumont
Publishing Company, but by Perennial Library SCIENCE FICTION
($14.95 0-06-097300-5, 352 pp., February). This book Michael Bishop's Unicorn Mountain has been
deserves a wide audience, as it is the first book to released as a mass market from Bantam ($4.95, 0-553-
speak directly to men healing from the effects of 27904-1). One of the main characters in this fantasy
childhood sexual abuse. Victims No Longer helps tale is a gay man living with AIDS; into his life and the
the reader to recognize the effects of abuse; to lives of his neighbors comes a herd of unicorns in-
address such issues as shame, self-esteem, trust, fected with a mysterious and deadly plague. The
intimacy, and sexuality; and to establish a support meitapnhors gaboun d in nthis ocompvassioenatel an.d sur priOs-
network.
November /December 1989 74
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:23 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
in Feminist
Bookstores
First and foremost are the new books by FBN 0-19-562291-X) “the first full-length collection of verse
poetry best-selling authors. Olga Broumas’ Per- . . . by a British Pakistani writer now resident in India”
petua (Copper Canyon, US$ 9.00 pb, 1-55659-025-3, and Orient Express (C$ 15.50 pb, 0-19-282699-9),
dist. Consortium), is described as a return to “the translations by Fleur Adcock of Grete Tartler whose
direct style of Beginning with O,” poems “grounded neatly crafted poems, emotionally direct and dra-
in sensual detail and ecstatic vision.” Make space in matic, I admired in an earlier anthology of Romanian
the lesbian poetry section! Joy Harjo has provided women poets.
the poetic text for a coffee-table photo book of south-
western landscapes: Secrets from the Center of the
World (University of Arizona, US$ 12.95 pb, 0-8165-
1113-6, Suite 102, 1230 North Park, Tuscon AZ 85719
U.S.A., terms: prepaid no minimum 40%, 40% 5+,
returns OK). And don’t forget June Jordan's Naming
our Destiny, mentioned on page 73 of the last issue
of FBN!
Though she’s not a best-seller yet, Erin Mouré
won last year’s prestigious Governor General’s
Award for poetry for her frankly lesbian and decon-
structionist Furious. Due this fall is WSW (WEST
SOUTH WEST) (Vehicule, C$ 9.95 pb, 1-55065-000-9,
dist. University of Toronto); I expect it will be chal- Yale University Press offers French scholars a
lenging but exciting reading! bilingual edition of three 13th-14th-century poems on
Penelope Shuttle, co-author of the recently re- women: Three Medieval Views of Women: La Con-
issued classic on menstruation The Wise Wound, is a tenance des Fames, Le Bien des Fames, Le Blasme
fine poet. Her most recent Adventures with my Horse des Fames translated and edited by Gloria K. Fiero,
(Oxford, US$ 8.95 pb, 0-19-282218-7) is rich in animal Wendy Pfeffer, and Mathé Allain (US$ 8.95 pb, short
imagery and sensuous description. From the same discount, 0-300-04442-9). For readers of Spanish and
company, Lydia Wevers has edited an attractive and English, recommend Marjorie Agosin’s Zones of
useful anthology: Yellow Pencils: Contemporary Pain/Las Zonas del Dolor (White Pine, US$ 9.00 pb,
Poetry by New Zealand Women (Oxford, US$ 13.95 0-934834-38-5, dist. BP, IN and Small Press) translated
pb, 0-19-558178-4). The work included was all first by Cola Franzen: meditations on the sufferings of
published between 1965 and 1988 and represents women tortured, imprisoned or bereaved in Agosin’s
authors well known outside New Zealand like Keri native Chile and in other times and places.
Hulme and Elizabeth Smither as well as women like True to the depth and quality of the series, the
Rachel McAlpine, Fleur Adcock and Janet Charman 1989 volume of the Barnard New Women Poets Series
whom the women of Women’s Place Bookshop in The World, The Flesh, and Angels by Mary B. Camp-
Wellington wrote to FBN about when we sent out our bell (Beacon, US$ 9.95 pb, 0-8070-6807-1, in Canada
poetry questionnaire. From Oxford this fall: Purdah from Oxford) is a polished, readable collection about
and Other Poems by Imtiaz Dharker (C$ 8.95 pb, the human condition.
75 November / December 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:23 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
lated by Heather McHigh and Niko Boris for Wes-
leyan (US$ 10.95 pb, 0-8195-1167-6, in Canada from
Scholarly). About Dimitrova, Julia Kristeva wrote
“Seldom has a woman’s writing been at once more
cerebral and more sensual.”
An outstanding example of the scholarly publica-
tion of verse in translation is I Am Alive: The Tanka
Poems of Got Miyoko, 1898-1978 (University of
abian po H & a w Ta ai yi l oP rr ).e s s G, o tU õS ð$ b 1 r2 o. u9 g5 h tp b t, h e0 - 9 n4 e2 w6 6 8 v- i1 t9 a- li7 t, y d ois ft . f B emak ae lr e
content to a revered Japanese poetic form; this book
“...a fine affirmation of lesbian includes complete Japanese and English texts, notes
identity and sexuality.” and commentary, and essays on various period of her
— carol anne douglas, life and work.
ISBN 0-961-74060-4 off our backs the l iT vh esr e e o f p o te ht es i r h fav eme ac leo m fp oa rs bsi eo an ra et re sl .y I nt r a Hn is lof o r Rm aie nd s,
Paper, $3.95 Juliet S. Kono lovingly describes her Japanese immi-
Available to bookstores from Inland grant grandparents, life on cane plantations and war-
time hardships in Hawaii (Bamboo Ridge Press, US$
6.00, 0-910043-15-9, dist. Small Press, in Hawaii Pacific
Trade Group). The Octavia of Octavia and Other
P.O. Box 9062 s Pittsb ur(g4h,1 P2A) 1 5232461-8927 Poems (Third World, US$ 8.00 pb, 0-883781-21-2, dist.
Baker & Taylor, Lushena Books New York) by Naomi
Long Madgett was the author’s aunt, the rebellious
Pittsburgh has announced new books of poetry oldest daughter of a devout, well-educated Black
by authors familiar to other sections in our stores: family in the Oklahoma Territory. In Journey to Yalta
Green Age by Alicia Ostriker (Stealing the Language: (Turnstone, C$ 8.95 pb, 0-88801-132-6, in Canada from
The Emergence of Women's Poetry in America from University of Toronto, in U.S. from Bookslinger),
Beacon) (US$ 8.95 pb, 0-8229-5421-4) and Captivity Sarah Klassen weaves her own journey to the Black
by Toi Derricotte (Natural Birth from Crossing) (US$ Sea with surviving fragments of the story of her Men-
8.95 pb, 0-8229-5422-2). Pittsburgh books are dis- nonite grandmother’ spending the summer of 1918 at
tributed by Cornell. a sanitorium in Yalta.
An exciting and extensive collecting effort — 148 Haunted by the historical figure of Marie Curie,
poems by 34 Black women writers — shows results in Laura Conway's The Cities of Madame Curie
Maureen Honey’s Shadowed Dreams: Women’s (Zeitgeist, US$ 4.95 pb, 0-929730-08-9, dist. BP) is a
Poetry of the Harlem Renaissance (Rutgers, US$ series of place portraits in which the radiation Curie
12.95 pb, 0-8135-1420-7, dist. Cornell). Many earlier discovered darkly overshadows our mundane
poems and new work are included in Helping the preoccupations.
Dreamer by prolific performer Anne Waldman The newest book of one of my favorite word
(Coffee House, US$ 9.95 pb, 0-918273-50-1, dist. BP, IN, magicians, Penn(y) Kemp, stirs fragments from many
Small Press, Consortium, or Bookslinger). of her earlier works into a new brew: meditations to
New English versions of the great modern Soviet various goddesses (Tara, Hathor, Changing Woman,
poet Anna Akhmatova are Poems Without a Hero and Hecate, etc.). Striking black and white photo collages
Other Poems (Oberlin College Press, US$ 9.95 pb, by Cheryl Sourkes are perfect complements to the
0-932440-50-9, Rice Hall, Oberlin College, Oberlin OH texts. Throo (C$ 9.95 pb, 0-920259-20-0) is from Moon-
44074 U.S.A., terms: 40% 2+, returns OK). A newer stone Press (P.O. Box 96, Goderich, Ontario, Canada
voice from eastern Europe is Bulgarian poet Blaga N7A 3Y5, terms: 40% on 5+, returns in 60 days). If
Dimitrova, whose Because the Sea is Black is trans- See Poetry, page 96
November /December 1989 76 Volume 12 Number 4
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:23 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
C £
B Ny ew M War oy r d L sowry A anm d e r gi oca on ds . q uIt a’ ls i t yw o or ft h t hin e d u wl rg ii tn ig n g .for the good humor
Pious Deception by Sue Dunlap, Villard, $16.95
For years I have read and enjoyed the books of c], 394-57168-1. Dunlap has a couple of good detectives:
Ruth Rendell but I recently read An Unkindness of working police detective Jill Smith, and meter reader
Ravens and it infuriated me. This is mainline Freud on Vejay Haskell. Pious Deception introduces P.I. Kiernan
the subject of incest and you know he wasn’t on our side. O'Shaughnessy, a former forensic pathologist, who takes
The mystery hinges and depends on the discredited on catholic hierarchy and Catholic absurdities when
Freudian interpretation of women’s testimony on the hired by a Bishop in Phoenix to solve the apparent
subject of father/daughter incest. I regret the one copy suicide of a priest. Dunlap plays fair, has strong women,
we sold before I got it off the shelves. I certainly will and provides a good solid read.
approach Rendell's next with more caution.
We've been encountering a new phenomenon at
New Words: mysteries selling in hard cover. Not just any C
mysteries, of course, but the Sarah Schulman (After
Delores), Mary Wings (She Came in a Flash) and re-
cently, Skid by Maude Farrell (Dutton, $16.95 cl, 525- The mass market list of new releases isn’t over-
24767x) featuring her “lesbian” detective who is now burdened with women’s titles. The few December and
suffering from involvement with a boring boy. Maybe January titles are:
this trend bodes well for the Naiad venture into hard Blood Lies by Virginia Anderson, Bantam, $3.95 pb,
cover mystery. Some customers have grimaced, some 553-27916-5, December.
remarked that they don’t care, they'll buy any Katherine Little Class on Murder by Carolyn Hart, Bantam,
Forrest. Still we order light on hard covers in general $3.50 pb, December.
with so many bookstores around whose discounts are Stalker by Liza Cody, Bantam, $2.25 pb, December.
better than ours. (We offer 10% on all hard covers). So far, Grub-and-Stakers Move a Mountain by Charlotte
the sales have been very light. Macleod writing as Alisa Craig, Avon, $3.50,
Corpus Christmas by Margaret Maron, Dou- 380-70331-9, December.
bleday Crime Club, $12.95 cl, 0-385-26613-8. This is Unwanted Attentions by K. K. Beck, Ivy, $3.95 pb,
another mystery featuring NYPD’s Lieutenant Sigrid 8041-0521-9, January.
Harald. I like Maron’s other Sigrid Harald books, so I A Good Night to Kill by Lillian ©'Donnell, Fawcett,
expect to like this one, too. $3.95 pb, 449-21706-x, January.
Reader I Murdered Him, Jen Green, ed., St. Mar- Suspicious Death by Dorothy Simpson, Bantam,
tin’s Press, $15.95 cl, 0-312-03415-6. Also Women’s $3.95 pb, 553-26469- 9, January.
Press Limited if you can get the British edition. An Death in Fashion by Marion Babson, Bantam, $2.25
unusually good collection of short mysteries with an pb, 553-26469-9, January.
i Hn ef no nr em ga at ni .v e A a n Bd r i tt ish ho u g coh lt lf ecu tl io i nn t r wo id tu hc t aio n s p rb iy n k A linli gso n of Letter 2of0 t5he2 L4aw- b7y , C a roFle e Bebrrry, u Deallr, $y3.9.5 , 04O40-
November /December 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:23 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
THE ENABLER MENOPAUSE WITHOUT MEDICINE
When Helping Harms Feel Healthy,
The Ones You Love Look Younger, Live Longer
Angelyn Miller Linda Ojeda, Ph.D.
Co-dependency is not limited Many attitudes and expecta-
to families involved with al- tions about menopause are
cohol or drugs. An enabler is simply outdated. While for
anyone who protects others many the word still carries
from the consequences of connotations of age and
their actions. decline, a more accurate pic-
ture for today shows a
w h ite hal t h my a, n yv i t oa pl, t i oa nct si v ae n dw o mm aa nn y, $$“ .Ð F L eLie vol e o kH Le oYa nlot guh eny rger
WEIER years before her.
Linda Ojeda has researched and studied meno-
pause for years. She does not reject traditional
medicine, but believes that, since menopause is a
Using her own story as an example, she illustrates natural process, most women can care for them-
how enabling relationships can be transformed into selves using natural means, turning to their doctors
healthy ones. She offers hope, advice, and en- when more serious problems require it. This is the
couragement for those looking for a way out of the most current and complete book for every woman
enabling trap. experiencing menopause, or looking forward to it.
144 pages • Soft Cover • $6.95 304 pages • Soft Cover • $11.95
ON THE ROAD TO BAGHDAD EVERYDAY RACISM
A Novel of Magical Adventures Reports from Women of Two Cultures
Güneli Gün Philomena Essed, Ph.D.
A free-wheeling picaresque tale, combining Turkish A powerful study of the implicit and subtle—but
folk tales with modern literature. A blend of his- pervasive—forms of racism found in daily black-
tory, legend, fantasy—with a strikingly modern white interactions. Based on extensive interviews
heroine you won’t soon forget.
400 pages • Hard Cover • $19.95 256 pages • Hard Cover $19.95 • Soft Cover $11.95
November /December 1989 Volume 12 Number 4
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:23 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
SEENA
Compiled By Carol Seajay In A Dream Compels Us: Voices of Salvadoran
Women, an anthology of interviews, testimonies and
Advocacy Press (Choices, Changes, and Minou) has articles by and about women involved in the popular
a new list of cloth children’s books following on the and revolutionary movements, the women of El Sal-
success of Minou — large format, beautifully il- vador speak to us directly about the events and œondi-
lustrated in full color with a social message for kids. tions that have led so many women into political
I've heard adult reviewers criticize these books saying activism. Their words evoke an extraordinary range of
they're too simple, too didactic. But the kids I know — ideas and emotions.... Preface by Grace Paley. $10.00 pb,
kids wise in the ways of conflicting values and living 0-89608-386-3; $25 cl, -369-1. South End Press, 116 St.
between school yard peer pressure and something Botoloph St., Boston MA 02215. BP, IN, etc.
else that makes more sense — love them. That’s rec-
ER
ommendation enough for me. My Way Sally tells of a
foxhound pup who finds a way to make the chase
interesting — without hassling the fox. Kylie’s Song Through Her Eyes: Women’s Theology from
is about a koala that “shouldn't” sing — but does and Latin America edited by Elsa Tamez brings together
enjoys it. Tonia the Tree is about a tree that must essays Which probe the “different ways women speak
uproot and move — as difficult as that is — in order of God”. Sexual identity, spirituality, religiosity... are
to stay alive and keep growing. Berta Benz and the all studied from a woman's viewpoint. $11.95 pb,
Motorwagen is a historically accurate account of 0-88344-373-2. Orbis Books, Maryknoll NY 10545.
the first long-distance journey (59 miles) in a Written in two voices, Ashes of Izalco is a col-
gasoline-powered automobile. All illustrated by laborative novel by Claribel Alegria and Darwin
Itoko Maeno. $13.95 each. I hope they all come out Flakoll based on the events of 1932 when thirty thou-
in paperback editions soon for the benefit of the sand Indians and peasants were massacred in Izalco,
kids whose libraries and schools don’t have the El Salvador. Originally published in Spanish in 1966,
sense to make the cloth editions available. Advo- it is one of the most widely read novels in Central
cacy Press, PO Box 236, Santa Barbara CA 93102.1IN, America. Translated by Darwin Flakoll, the Curbstone
BP & other distributors. Press edition makes it available to North American
readers at last. $9.95 pb 0-915306-84-0; $17.95 cl, -83-2.
While yowre ordering hardcover books for child- Curbstone Press, 321 Jackson St., Willimantic CT
ren for the holidays, don’t miss Ntombi’s Song, a 06226. Distributed by Talman, IN & BP.
tale about a rural African girl's first trip to the Women of Mexico: The Consecrated & the Com-
market by herself and how she overcomes the ob- moners by Bobette Gugliotta gathers together tales of
stacles in her way, earning the friendship of the several of the more famous and infamous women in
older cousin she wants to be like “when she grows Mexican history and considers their deeds and the
up.” $14.95 cl, 0- 8070-8318-6, Beacon Press. Dis- ways Mexico's unsung heroines have shaped both a
tributed by Harper & Row until Jan. 1, and by culture and a nation. A political analysis of the lives of
Farrar, Straus & Giroux thereafter. Mexican women would enhance this book, but even
Volume 12 Number 4 79 November /December 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:23 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
as is, it helps to fill the information gap. $19.95 pb,
0-915745-16-X. La Mujer Latina Series, Floricanto
Press, 16161 Ventura Blvd. Suite 830, Encino CA 91436.
2E
In A Road Well Traveled: Three Generations of
Cuban American Women, published by the Women’s
Educational Equity Act Program, U.S. Department of
Education, twelve women tell the stories of their lives.
The contributors include a professional baseball
player who helped rewrite the sports options for
American women, a Methodist minister, and a ma-
gazine editor in Chicago with deep roots in Cuban
culture. They include first-generation Cuban-Ameri-
can women, women who came after the Cuban Revo-
Twenty-Eight Great Titles In Print! lution, and women who arrived before the revolution
— women whose stories rarely make print. $10.00 pb.
Be Sure You’re Stocking These 40% bookstore discount. Order from EDC, 55 Chapel
For The Holiday Season St., Newton MA 02160.
Intricate Passions, edited by Tee Corinne. Twenty- Many Voices is the journal of a women’s touring
five women contributed erotic short fiction to this company at the 1985 Decade for Women Conference
collection. There’s a photo section of the authors in Nairobi. The members of the company include
at the back of the book. Great reading and a great recent immigrants from China and Puerto Rico,
gift idea. 0-934411-25-5, $8.95. Afro-Americans, descendants of New England
Puritans and Indians and Jews. 64 pgs, perfect
Sugar With Spice, Kieran. This collection of short bound, $5.00. Streetfeet, Rt. 4 Box 470, Putney VT
stories will keep you laughing through the tears. 05346. IN.
Kieran’s got it all here — from sugar to spice.
0-934411-24-7, $8.95. The Invisible Thread: A Portrait of Jewish
Gay Tales and Verses from The Arabian Nights, American Women, interviews by Diana Bletter,
compiled and with an introduction by Dr. Henry M. photographs by Lori Grinker, is one of the loveliest
Christman. Delightful collection of excerpts from the photo-essay portraits of a community that I've seen.
classic! 0-934411-27-1, $7.95. What I particularly love in it is the abundance of
contradictions, complexities, concerns and priori-
Faultlines, Stan Leventhal. New mystery from the ties addressed by the range of women portrayed.
author of Mountain Climbing in Sheridan Square. Don’t miss it! $24.95 pb, 0- 8276-0334-7; $35 cl. The
0-934411-26-3, $8.95. Jewish Publication Society, 1930 Chestnut St,
Two Novellas: Walking Water & After All This, Philadelphia PA 19103.
Thom Nickels. Two very different science Lotus Press is a long-time publisher of poetry by
fiction/fantasy novels. 0-934411-22-0, $8.95. “African Americans and Others,” bringing the work
BANNED BOOKS of many Black woman into print for the first time. 1989
is an imprint of Edward-William Publishing Company publications include: Satin Tunnels by Beth Brown
#292, P.O. Box 33280, Austin, TX 78764 ("As firm in craftsmanship as it is emotionally stimu-
(5 1 S2 t) o p2 8 O2- r8 d0 e4 r4 s o Wr e l1 c- o8 m00 e—-9 5 0 4- 06 %0 7 1 d i sF cA ouX n t( 5 1 p2 lu) s 2 8 p8 o- s1 t8 a1 g3 e lating.” Includes some translations from Latin-Amer-
ican women’s poems. $8.50 pb, 0-916418-69-3);
November /December 1989 80 Volume 12 Number 4
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:23 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Collected Poems by May Miller (“Live work ofa veteran never existed. It is nothing but stories, and (the) stories
poet whose observations and vision appeal to the are lies....” None of which is enough to slow down a
humanity in us all.” $18 cl, -70-7); and Octavia and storyteller like herself.... I found them to be more
Other Poems by Naomi Long Madgett. Octavia is fairy-tale-ish and somewhat less satisfying than some
inspired by old letters and photographs and recreates of her earlier work — missing the immediate tie to the
in poetry a family’s history in Guthrie, Oklahoma “real” times and peoples of some of her other fiction
early in the century. Required reading in Detroit Pub- — such as Daleth in Women, Kids & Huckleberry Wine,
lic Schools $8 pb, 0-883781-21-2. but this book also offered me the sense of a writer
Lotus’ backlist includes Toi Derricotte’s (Natural turning a corner, learning another vision — and it
Birth) first collection, The Empress of the Death leaves me more curious about what will follow than
House ($3.50 pb, -12- X); three collections of narrative ever before. $9.95 pb, 1-55017-004-X. Harbour Pub-
poems by Gayl Jones (Corregedora and White Rat), The lishing, PO Box 219, Madeira Park, BC VON 2H0,
Hermit-Woman which raises the question of whether Canada. BP & IN.
love transforms the spirit and defines “the intuitive PR
woman” ($4 pb, -43-X), Song for Anninho, a historical
narrative poem on love and freedom in Palmares
during slavery in Brazil ($4.50 pb, -26-X), and Xarque Sadly we're having to fight all over again for
and Other Poems, a sequel to Anninho ($6 pb, -60-X); abortion rights. Abortion Rights and Fetal Person-
Songs of Freedom by Sarah Carolyn Reese, a first hoodď edited by Edd Doerr and James W. Prescott was
volume by a leader in the struggle for voters’ rights used as the basis for the friend-of-the- court brief filed
and literacy in Mississippi during the Sixties ($5 pb, with the Supreme Court by Americans for Religious
-47-2); For Dark Women and Others by Satiafa Liberty. The brief was signed by 156 leading scientists
(Vivian V. Gordon), a first volume that contains poems including 11 Nobel laureates and has become the most
of Black/woman consciousness, as well as con- widely quoted of the 30+ briefs filed. Contributors
sciousness of self ($5 pb, -048-0); and The Water- range from Marjorie Reiley Maguire who shows that
melon Dress: Portrait of a Woman by Paulette the opponents of freedom of conscience on abortion
Childress White, which traces a girls development are on far shakier ground theologically and bibli-
into the traditional role of mother, wife and cally than those who are pro-choice, to biologists
homemaker, and then on to the triumph of self- who make it clear that science provides no support
knowledge ($6 pb, -53-7). Lotus Press also recom- for the proponents of the notion that fetal brains
mends Solos by Nubia Kai ($8.50 pb, -71-5) and and nervous systems are ready for even the min-
Pearl's Song by Irma McClaurin ($7 pb, -73-1). imum functions of “personhood,” and a detailed
Terms not sent, but 40% for 5+ books, if my examination of the misstatements made in the
memory serves me correctly. Lotus Press, PO Box emotionally-loaded film The Silent Scream — and, of
21607, Detroit MI 48221. course, it includes an examination of the con-
sequences for women’s rights by any weakening of
Tales of the Cairds is a new departure for Anne the Roe v. Wade ruling. All in all, an excellent docu-
Cameron — a series of somewhat interrelated stories ment — thoughtful and impeccably researched —
about a fictional group of people the Cairds who for those who must argue this case. $12.95 pb,
roamed the British Isles, somewhat Celtic “as nomadic 0-913111-26-0. I think that the title of the next edition
as gypsy people anywhere.” Says Cameron “None of will be changed to Whose Rights? Whose Life?:
it is true..... They have all died off, and anyway they Abortion Rights and Fetal “Personhood. Center-
81 November /December 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:23 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
dometritis — a Dalkon shield complication. In A
Shallow Pool of Time: An HIV+ Woman Grapples
with the AIDS Epidemic, she writes about both that
time of living with this epidemic before she knew she
newspapers, books, fliers, etc. g was HIV+, and of her journey since. She writes of her
Wpome n of a all co lora, s ize s, Zstyles. p s e hm umot oi ro n a (Pl e ajo vu er yn e iy s s , a l sh oe r a s ce oar mc eh d iaf no )r —in f lo er am rna it nio gn , a b h oe ur t
kissing in her 46th year, about telling ex-lovers and
H -A = N N < : e > Sa i would-be lovers, as well as family and friends, and
about the differences between talking with the AIDS-
experienced people in her life, and the people who
were just learning about AIDS through their relation-
ships with her. Peavey is “an equal opportunity lover”
and writes about initiating and practicing safe-sex
SNY with women lovers, and the empowerment of learn-
ing that she could and would stay clearly within safe-
sex limits regardless of the situation. A vital, and sadly
WANN WN essential, book. $11.95 pb, 0-86571-167-4; $35 cl. New
Society Publishers.
New Society has also published The Next
E orFderr: e Zey. 1 BJerwe o3l0s4 c G15hrtha pu Shtirrcesete: s Generation: Lives of Third World Children (publish-
8 415/763-9671 Oakland, CA 94612 J ed simultaneously in the U.K. by Zed Books) by Judith
Enneay & Brian Milne, an important, passionate book
that argues that we should recognize that the welfare
line Press, 2005 Palo Verde Ave. Suite325, Long Beach of children in underdeveloped countries is a child-
CA 90815.40% for 5+. BP, IN, B&T. ren’s rights issue and that we should involve our-
In Over Our Live Bodies: Preserving Choice in selves in working towards real solutions, not the
America Shirley L. Radl (Mother's Day Is Over and The dependency-creating palliative of charity. $12.95 pb,
Invisible Woman) offers a guidebook to preserving abor- 0-86571-156-9; $34.95 cl. New Society Publishers, 4527
tion rights. She begins by describing the way things Springfield, Philadelphia PA 19142. IN & BP.
were, the difference that the right to choose has made
tin h e nt h e id el niv te ifs i eo sf t hA em e tr hi rc ean at s w to om e cn h o ia cn ed t o hu ar t hfa am vei l i ee ss c, a la an ted d CALENDARS
in recent years. Other chapters include “The High Stocking up on and promoting Crossing Press cal-
Cost of Unwantedness,” “RU 486 to the Rescue,” “The endars might be an excellent way to show your support
Future of Choice” and “Preserving Choice: An Activ- as Crossing digs out from the earthquake. Crossing’s
ist's Guide.” “Hard facts and simple strategies.” $7.95 Women Writers Desk Calendar 1990 features the work
pb. 40% for 3+. Steve Davis Publishing, PO Box of Isabel Allende, Rosellen Brown, Robyn Davidson,
190831, Dallas TX 75219. 214-954-4469. BFP, IN, Gor- Louise Erdrich, Keri Hulme, P.D. James, Bernice Rubens,
don’s and B&T. Lisa St. Aubin de Teran, Mona Simpson, Christina Stead,
Amy Tan, and Marguerite Yourcenar. $9.95, spiral
In 1984 social change activist Fran Peavey (Heart bound, 0-89594-360-3. Celebrating Women’s Spiritual-
Politics) started keeping a journal about her own re- ity is a spiral bound engagement calendar featuring the
sponse to the AIDS epidemic thinking that a journal work of New-Age writers and artists (many color pages)
about the epidemic by an “ordinary person” would be with a few older, more traditional (?) writers added in:
historically interesting. Four years into the journal i.e., Margaret Sanger and Teresa of Avila. $10.95, spiral
P ase a v ae y rl ee sa ur ln te d o f t h ba lt o o dsh e t r w ana ss f uH siI oV n+ s h ne er es de elf d — to p trr eo ab ta b ely n- b dou on md, - 36 C1- A1. T 9he 5 0Cr 1o 9ss .in g A P lr ses os, P aO t B o Bx P10 4 8 &, F r Iee N- . O
82 Volume 12 Number 4
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:23 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
: RÈ
Compiled by Sandi Torkildson of the Finns and Native Americans who have carved
A Room of One's Own out a life in the upper peninsula of Michigan. The
NORTON Long White ($7.95pb, 0393-30647x, January) speaks of
small-town life, of long snowy winters, of the lure of
Norton has a very exciting fall list, most of it in alcohol and of the desire to escape to the city.
paperback. One important title that is already out is a Norton is also publishing a number of books on
new collection of poems by Rita Dave, the winner of women and the arts. Woman as Sex Object, edited by
the 1987 Pulitzer in Poetry. Grace Notes ($16.95 cl, Thomas Hess and Linda Nochlin ($7.95 pb, 0393-
0393-027198), the fourth book of poems by this Black 306178, February), is a collection of essays that looks
women poet, will introduce her to more readers. at erotic art from 1730-1970 and the female image as
seen through the eyes of male artists.
Norton also has a number of professional books
that may be of interest to some stores. Divorced Fami-
lies: Meeting the Challenge of Divorce and Re-
Also coming for the poetry section is the paper- marriage by Constance Ahrans and Roy Rodgers
back edition of The Silence Now, New and Uncol- ($9.95 pb, 0393-306224) looks at divorce as a normal
lected Earlier Poems by May Sarton ($7.95 pb, process of reorganization and not as evidence of
0393-306356, February). Norton will also publish Sar- pathology or dysfuction. The book describes the ex-
ton’s journal After the Stroke ($5.95 pb, 0393-306305, pectable difficulties for couples at different life-cycles
November) in paper, sure to be a big Christmas seller. — those with children, no children, midlife and aging
The sequel to Jeanine McMullen’s A Small couples — and offers guidance for making the most of
Country Living, a portrait of her life on a Welsh farm, the transition.
is due out in October. Wind in the Ash Tree ($8.95 pb, The Healing Bond: Treating Addictions in
0393-306275) continues the saga of her Welsh farm Groups (10.95 pb, 0393- 700887) by Ronald Rogers
and assortment of goats, sheep, dogs, horses and and C. Scott McMillin is for professionals and group
people she loves and cares for. leaders. It shows how to move a group toward goal-
Norton is doing lots of paperback fiction reprints directed work with a focus on accepting addiction as
this fall. Jean Rhys: The Collected Short Stories ($9.95 a chronic disease, preventing relapses and committing
pb, 0393-306259) is the first complete collection of her oneself to a 12-Step program.
stories including three never published in book form.
She Came to Stay, a novel by Simone de Beauvoir
($9.95 pb, 0393-306461, January) will once again be Zil:
available in an American edition. It has been hard to
get the British editions of her works since J. Ben Stark THAMES AND HUDSON (Dist. Norton)
went out of business. The Goddess by Adele Getty ($12.95 pb, 0500-
A collection of stories by Sharon Dilworth, win- 810338, February) is one of the inexpensive illustrated
ner of the Iowa Short Fiction Award, follows the lives books published by Thames and Hudson. Getty por-
November /December 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:23 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
trays the myriad historical and mythological perspec-
tives of the Goddess beginning with the Paleolithic
Age to the present day.
Women, Art and Society by Whitney Chadwick
($14.95 pb, 0500-202419, March; $24.95 cl, 0500-
181942) looks at the conditions under which women
have worked as artists from the middle ages to the
present. Chadwick identifies the aesthetic and ideol-
MY B19 ogy that have shaped women’s relationships to the
AS Á visual arts and to art history.
PUSHCART PRESS (Dist. Norton)
Pushcart Press Books will publish the winner of
the eighth annual Editors’ Book Award for “over-
looked manuscripts of enduring literary value.” The
King of the World by Merrill Joan Gerber ($18.95 cl,
0916-36660X, December) is a novel about the hell of
wife and child abuse and the underlying causes of
fan il y V iolence.
NEW DIRECTIONS (Dist. Norton)
Some Are More Human Than Others, the
sketchbook of Stevie Smith, will be hard to shelve (is
it art or is it poetry?). Smith was known for sprinkling
her drawings throughout her poetry, but she also
spiced her drawings with words ($7.95 pb, 08112-
1110X).
HOUGHTON-MIFFLIN
Two interesting biographies, one about Rachel
Carson, the other about Janet Flanner, are due out
from Houghton-Mifflin this Fall. In The House of
Life: Rachel Carson at Work ($9.95 pb, 0395517427)
Paul Brooks draws from Carson's writings, from re-
collections of her closest friends, and from his own
association with her, to show how Carson merged two
divergent passions — literature and science — to write
some of the most important books of our time.
She NC UOJ u ars Genêt: The Life of Janet Flanner by Brenda
Wineapple ($24.95 c], 0899194427, November) brings
AAAA EA E EA to life this strong, passionate, complex woman who
Available in Canada from Harper & Collins Books of Canada, Ltd. knew and saw everyone and everything in Paris for
Harper e ROW half a century. I know nothing about the author of this
At bookstores now. biography; it is her first book. I hope she does not skip
_ over Flanner’s lesbianism.
November/December 1989 84 Volume 12 Number 4
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:23 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Aa R sK | s R a
p.l sll
IÈI + HE
The Jump-Off Creek by Molly Gloss ($16.95 cl, My Father’s Island ($18.95 cl, 0670-827320,
0395-510864) looks to be a strong first novel about a January) is the story of Johanna Angermeyes’ quest to
woman homesteading a place of her own in Oregon discover what happened to her father who fled to the
in the 1890s. Galapagos Island from Nazi Germany. As she solves
Coming in paperback from Houghton-Mifflin in the mystery of her father’s life and death, she, like her
March ‘90 is Second Chances: Men, Women and Child- father before, comes to love the Galapagos herself.
ren a Decade After Divorce ($8.95 pb, 089919-9496) by
Judith Wallerstein and Sandra Blakeslee. This study of 60
middle-class families looks at what happens during, 4il;
after and long after divorce. This is not a book of dry
statistics but a compassionate account of the struggles Viking has new novels coming from Iris Mur-
parents and children experience in divorce. doch, Fay Weldon and Jessica Anderson.
CROWN The Message to the Planet (Iris Murdoch, $22.95,
0670829994, February) is the story of Marcus Vallar,
Crown's Winter list has an important book on the once a painter and mathematician, now mysteriously
anti-pornography movement. In Men Confront withdrawn, and the people who surround him. This
Pornography edited by Michael Kimmel ($24.95 cl, looks like Murdoch's usual novel about faith, betrayal
0394-569310, January) men explore both the political and doubt.
and personal effects of pornography on sexuality, The Cloning of Joanna May by Fay Weldon
politics and personal relationships with women. ($18.94 c], 0670-830909, March) is the story of Joanna
May and the four clones her husband made of her at
VIKING
the height of her “perfection.” Carl May thinks he has
Viking will publish a new book by Ruth Sidel in stripped his faithless wife of her power and soul, but
January. On Her Own ($18.95 cl, 0670-831549, when his cellular manipulations are uncovered, what
January) examines the attitudes, values, hopes and chance does he have against the bonds of maternal
concerns of young women today. Drawn from over love, sisterly love, even self love? This novel about
150 interviews, Sidel’s subjects speak about the status male control and female power may be Weldon’s most
of women at work, issues of child-rearing and the ambitious so far.
meaning of the American Dream for women today. Taking Shelter by Australian writer Jessica
Anderson ($17.95 cl, 0670829501, March) is the story
Zil: of Beth caught between the spell cast by the charming
but reluctant Miles and the passionate and urgent
Marcus. Anderson exhibits her razor-sharp under-
Two autobiographies due out in January look standing of people and their relationships in an era of
very interesting. Midstream: A Daughter’s Story by no rules and little permanence.
LeAnne Schreiber ($18.95 cl, 067082819-x) is her Up Front: Sex and the Post-Mastectomy Woman
memoir about her mother’s death along with her own by Linda Dackman ($17.95 cl, 0070823244, February)
renewal. Upon leaving her high-pressure job as is her personal account of the emotional aftermath of
deputy editor of the New York Times Book Review for the her mastectomy — her mood swings, her fears of
quiet life in a small town on the Hudson River — a rejection and of intimacy, and her feelings about her
place to think and write — Schreiber learned that her own body. This looks like an honest and insightful
mother was dying of pancreatic cancer. look at the psychological adjustment to breast cancer.
November / December 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:23 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
NAL-VIKING discouraging righteous anger and often failing at
NAL-Viking is publishing a book about gay men helping greap members transcend ACOA status and
and straight women based on a survey of over 1000 live full and healthy lives. Not everyone will agree
people. Uncommon Lives by Catherine Whitney with her, but it may be an interesting addition to your
($17.95 cl, 0453007090, March) looks at married recovery section.
c evou erp yle ts h, i nm g a n by u t w si et xh , c dh ivil od rr ce en d, cc oo uu pp ll ee ss , w coh mo m s ih ta tr ee d DUTTON-VIKING
friendships and hundreds of people who choose to Dutton-Viking will publish a new novel by Sarah
live “uncommon lives” that afford them the same Schulman (After Delores) in January. People in Trouble
warmth, family ties, sense of community that their ($17.95 c], 0525248358) is the story of a love triangle
neighbors have. between a married woman who discovers the pleas-
Lovebound: Recovering from an Alcoholic ures of “cross-dressing” and lesbian sex, her husband
Family by Phyllis Hose ($18.95 cl, 0453007236, April) Peter and her lesbian lover set against the backdrop of
looks at Hose's own recovery and explores the issues the AIDS crisis.
of what she feels is wrong about recovery programs. The autobiography of Hettie Jones, the ex-wife of
She sees Al-Anon and other “12-step” programs as LeRoi Jones, is a moving book about politics, race, sex
T
B Sex in the forbidden zone is sexual behavior between a man
p and a woman who have a professional relationship of unequal
. IN THE power that is based on trust.
In his landmark book, psychiatrist Peter Rutter, M.D., de-
scribes a hidden epidemic of intimate contact in the forbid-
den zone. This daring exploration offers provocative new in-
WHEN THERAPISTS, sights into the unconscious drives that play a vital role in all
DOCTORS, CLERGY. male and female psychology — the fantasies behind affairs
TEACHERS & OTHER outside the forbidden zone as well as within it.
BETRAY WOM EM NE 'SN T I RN U SP TOWER Sex in the Forbidden Zone also offers practical guidance for
both women and men including prevention, intervention,
and, when necessary, legal action.
PETER RUTTER, M.D.
“The depth and truth of Dr. Rutter's insights into erotically
charged relationships will challenge and empower both men
and women.”
$17.95 Hardcover ITEM #774861 Jean Shinoda Bolen, M.D.
author, Goddesses in Everywoman
To order, call or write:
Jeremy P. Tarcher, Inc.
JEREMY P. TARCHER, INC. 5858 Wilshire Blvd.
Los Angeles, CA 90036
VISA or Mastercard call toll-free
1-800-333-3969 ext. 326KW
November /December 1989 86 Volume 12 Number 4
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:23 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
and love undone by politics. How I Became Hettie gay father stirs up old conflicts for him about his
Jones ($18.95 cl, 0525-248404, February) is the story Southern roots.
of Hettie Cohen who chose to cross racial barriers A few non-fiction titles coming this winter from
to marry the Black man she loved. She faced the Penguin include The Absent Father by Alix Pirani
racism, sexism and politics of the sixties that ($9.95 pb, 014019164x, January) and Recovering From
threatened her marriage and her dreams for herself the War by Patience Mason ($8.95 pb, 0140099123,
and went on to achieve recognition as a poet and February). In The Absent Father Pirani looks at the
children’s author. void of fathers in parenting due to work demands,
The Ms. Money Book by Emily Card ($19.95 cl, divorce or separation, and the consequences to men,
0525-246694, February) offers a comprehensive ap- women and their families. Recovering From the War
proach to personal finance and planning for an is a book for women involved with Vietnam vets.
economically secure future. From what I read and Mason, the wife of a vet herself, draws on both her
personal experience, women are earning more (at personal experience and the experiences of the dozens
least some are) but still have money fear and often of men and women she interviewed. She looks at
don't plan their financial lives well. Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder, the high rate of sui-
PENGUIN ac did ve i c ea m oo nn g t h v ee rt as p y ( ,o v de er a l i5 n0 g,0 0 w0) i t ha n d th ep r Vov ei td ee rs a n p 'sr a Act di mca il n-
Penguin will be doing paperback editions of istration and other vet organizations.
many great novels in its winter season. Heart Moun-
bta ei rn ) ib sy t hG er e t se tl o r yEh r ol fic h J a( p$ a8 n.9 e5 se p Ab, m e0 r1 i4 c0 a1 n0 s9 0 f6 o4 r, c eD de c ie nm to- a ıl;
relocation camp and the ranchers, sheepmen,
Waitresses and cowboys in the nearby town. One biography not to be overlooked is Marjorie
Can't Quit You, Baby by Ellen Douglas ($6.95 pb, Kinnan Rawlings: Sojourner at Cross Creek by Eli-
0140121021, December) looks at the relationship be- zabeth Silverthorne ($12.95 pb, 0879313209, Febru-
tween Cornelia — rich and white — and Tweet — ary). For all us lovers of The Yearling, this is a book of
poor and black — who share a Mississippi kitchen and the 25 years Rawlings spent in central Florida's scrub
their crises, moments of despair and struggle for un- COUuntry.
derstanding, respect and love.
Susanne Moore's The Whiteness of Bones ($7.95 NAL/DUTTON
pb, 0140130209, February) received wide-spread criti- Coming from NAL/Dutton (Penguin USA) in
cal acclaim when it was published. This story of two their Plume American Women Writers series is Col-
sisters Who grow up in paradise on the family’s old corton by Edith Pope ($8.95 pb, 045263247, December)
plantation on the sacred Hawaiian island of Kauai but is a 1944 novel set in the South. It is the story of Abby
look to the alluring world outside. As Mamie makes Clanghearne, who spends her life raising her brother
her way through the sex, money and drugs of New and later his son Jaddy. Abby, a strong and willful
York City, she looks to the spirits and traditions of the woman, as colorful as the swamp she works and
Hawaiian and Polynesian culture for truth and hunts in, carries the family secret and is determined to
strength. keep it to herself.
Gathering Home by Vicki Covington ($7.95 pb, Lummox by Fannie Hurst ($8.95 pb, 0452263255,
014027097, February) is the story of a young adopted December), first published in 1923, is the story of
girl's search for her birth parents. Her contact with her Bertha, a poor young woman who toils as a domestic
87 November /December 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:23 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
The bestselling author of Medicine Woman, Jaguar [fISSmssyN ae resa
Woman, and Crystal Woman has now created a
workbook designed to help you tap your hidden Jiz OZIN GS ÅRCLUND
shamanic powers. Based on her enormousl:
insigh ptas wanodr k sehxeorpcsi,s e tsh itso nfeawci l ibtoatoek yboleunrd spersonal
vision quest and initiate you into the
“Crystal Dreamtime.”
With Andrews’ guidance, you'll travel inner
paths to the four points of the sacred wheel, dis-
cover your own Power Animal, energize within
a circle of crystals, seek self-knowledge through
mirroring, and more. Her unique visualization
process helps you embark on an exceptional
journey, “a journey to discover one's own
enlightenment and to help heal our mother earth.” © A
Let Lynn Andrews
guide you on your own
spifitual journey.
Enjoy Lynn Andrews’ insights
every day of the year.
Richly illustrated with North American Indian
motifs, this new week-at-a-glance engagement
calendar evokes the spiritual journey Lynn
Andrews described in Medicine Woman. Each
month begins with à striking full-color painting
which illustrates one stage of her quest; each
week highlights excerpts from the book that
accent the themes of that inner journey. Hand-
g H aSrapne r F r&a n cRioscwo
November /December 1989 88 Volume 12 Number 4
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:23 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Ils
Lil. sl
in the homes of wealthy New Yorkers. Hurst offers a Gertrude Stein ($18.95 cl, 0826404588, March) is a
satiric view of the social classes and aspirations of the literary biography that examines Stein's approach
to the arts and her place in the literary movements
of her time.
l BASIC BOOKS (Dist. Harper & Row)
Science and the Unborn by Clifford Grobstein
Betty Berzon’s Permanent Partners: Building ($9.95 pb, 0465072968, April) looks at the stages of
Gay and Lesbian Relationships That Last ($9.95 pb, prenatal development and the legal, ethical and pub-
045263085, January) was a big seller in hardback for us lic policy concerns surrounding the treatment of the
and will continue to sell in this new paperback edition. unborn.
Berzon is a lesbian and a pyschotherapist with 16 years
of experience counseling gay men and lesbians. HARPER & ROW
Two great quilt books are due from Dutton- Harper and Row’s Winter list is almost as large as
Penguin USA in February. Stitched From the Soul: its Fall list. There are not too many exciting things in
Slave Quilting in the Ante- Bellum South by Gladys- cloth, but lots of new things in paper.
Marie Fry ($17.95 pb, 052548535X, 65 color plates) stu- The most interesting book in cloth is a new book
dies slave women’s involvement in the design and craft of poems by Louise Erdrich, the author of Love Medi-
of quilts and the influence of African culture on their cine. Baptism of Desire ($16.95 cl, 006-0162139,
quilting styles, brings these women the recognition, ac- January) is her first book of poems in eight years,
knowledgment and history they have been denied. although the price will put many readers off until the
HO for California! by Jean Ray Laury and the paperback is published.
California Heritage Quilt Project ($19.95 pb,
0525485333, 100 color plates) is a collection of families’
heirloom quilts and the histories of those pioneer Al:
families who made the quilts during their trips to
California. I have to mention that Erica Jong has a new novel
due out in February 1990. Any Woman’s Blues
CROSSROADS/CONTINUUM (Dist. Harper ($18.95 cl, 006-0162724) is the story of an artist,
& Row) mother and celebrity whose efforts to confront her
Crossroads/Continuum will publish The Sexual codependence (on love, sex and alcohol) take her on
Politics of Meat ($22.95 cl, 0826404553, January) by a sensual and spiritual odyssey. This is a big book
Carol Adams. Adams draws correlations between the for Harper and they will promote it heavily, but I
slaughter of animals and the cultural attitudes would not say it would be a bestseller for most
towards women. feminist bookstores.
Beyond Oppression: Feminist Theory and Cat and I ($17.95 cl, 006-0162740, April) by
Political Strategy by M. E. Hawkesworth ($22.95 cl, Doris Schwerin, the author of Diary of a Pigeon
0826404561, February) looks at constitutional mecha- Watcher is an unusual memoir of her maturing years
nisms to achieve an egalitarian society and gender intertwined with the life of Miss Willow, the cat she
justice. shared 21 years with.
Crossroads/Continuum will also be publishing a The Part-Time Solution by Charlene Canape
new biography of Gertrude Stein by Bettina Knapp. ($18.95 c], 006-0162376, March) looks at part-time
89 November /December 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:23 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
periencing the unsettling and adverse complications
of adult life.
New editions of four of Zora Neale Hurston’s
works are due out from Harper in February. The
novels Jonah’s Gourd Vine ($8.95 pb, 0060916516)
and Their Eyes Were Watching God ($8.95,
0060916508) will be reissued. I assume the University
of Illinois Press edition of Their Eyes will no longer be
available. Order more now since it is $2.00 cheaper.
Also Mules and Men ($8.95 pb, 0060916486), Hurs-
An intimate, ton’s collection of Black American folklore and Tell
f oi fr s t o- np ee r s won om a ac nc ’o sunt My Horse ($8.95 pb, 0060916494), her personal ex-
smoking. A powerf s ut lr u tg eg stle im t oo n y quit perien Sc oe m i en oH fa it ti h e a n fd i c tJ ioa nm a tic ha a t w wit ih ll v ao po pd eo ao r c inu s t po am pes. r for
to the addictive nature of nicotine. the first time this Winter are a number of great short
Self-Portrait of S am o Nk ie cr otine Addict s ($t 7o .r 9y 5 c po bl ,l e c 0t 0i 6on 09s 7. 2 H 79e 3a ,r t F eS bo rn ug as r y b ) y is E . a A cn on lli ee c t iP or no u oly f sto-
Ord eb ry N E ol .l e n 50 6W 8 a l $k 6e .9r 5 tr rie as d i ts ie ot n , in t h n e o r rt ih tee sr n o fN e nw a t uE rn eg l aa nn dd tt hh ea t r c ite ule ab lsr a t oe f r su mr aa ll l-
town life.
_To Order, Call Toll F ree 1-800-328-9000 Bobbie Ann Mason's latest collection of stories,
HAZELDEN (n MN, 1-800-257-0070) Love Life ($8.95 pb, 0060916680, March) also looks at
life in the small towns of America — mostly in the
South.
work as a way of balancing a job and a family. Of John Dollar ($8.95 pb, 0060916559, April), Mari-
course this is aimed at couples that can afford this anne Wiggins’ bestselling novel, is due out this Spring
solution. in paper.
Bonnie Kreps’ book on romantic love, Subversive My Father’s Moon by Australian author Eliza-
Thoughts, Authentic Passions ($17.95 cl, 006- beth Jolley ($8.96 pb, 0060916591, April) is a coming-
2504835, March) looks at how patriarchy manipulates of-age story of a young woman in London during
love for its own ends, resulting in gender-stereotyped WWII.
men and women who fail to communicate. She ex- Harper has started a new series called Literary
plodes the historical and cultural myths of romantic Cinema Classics that brings back into print novels that
love and brings the reader to a new understanding of became famous American films. Imitation of Life by
what real love is (something I have never been able to Fannie Hurst ($8.95 pb, 0060963654, February) was
figure out). made into a film twice and Stella Dallas by Olive
Harper will be doing a number of important novels Higgins Prouty ($8.95 pb, 0060964499, February) was
in paperback this Winter season. American Appetites by first made into a 1937 film starring Barbara Stanwyck.
Joyce Carol Oates ($8.95 pb, 0060972785, January) is the Bette Midler will star in the soon-to-be-released re-
chilling tale of the dark side of the American Dream set make due in 1990.
in an affluent upper-class suburb. In non-fiction, Harper is publishing many of their
Harper will reprint a novel and a collection of important books of last year in paper. Dancing at the
short stories by Laurie Colwin. Family Happiness Edge of the World by Ursula LeGuin ($8.95 pb,
($7.95 pb, 0060972726, January) is the story of a happy 0060972890, January) is a collection of essays, travel
wife and mother whose unexpected love affair causes journals, lectures, informal talks and reviews span-
her to explode her beliefs about herself and her idea of ning twelve years. Harper and Row is also reissuing
family. The Lone Pilgrim ($7.95 pb, 006097270x, LeGuin’s The Beginning Place ($6.95 pb, 0060916656,
January) is a collection of stories about people ex- February).
November /December 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:23 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
piil. sl iaaR i I J s E s lg
A behind-the-scenes look at women’s role in TV
news by Marlene Sanders, a former CBS and ABC tm aned ceit . a t Tio wn o b oo to hk e r f o mcu edsi in tag t i oo nn bs oe olf k- se s t de ue em o uan t d a ra ec c e Wp- or-
correspondent, anchorwoman and documentary pro- thy of Love — Meditations on Loving Ourselves and
ducer, Waiting for Prime Time ($8.95 pb, 0060972947, Others by Karen Casey ($7.95 pb, 0062553879, Febru-
January) looks at the challenges faced by women in ary) and Inner Harvest — Daily Meditations for
this male-dominated profession. Recovery from Eating Disorders ($7.95 pb,
Truth or Dare by Starhawk ($12.95 pb, 0062553968, February).
0062508164, February) will finally be out in paper.
Women’s Rituals: A Sourcebook by Barbara Walker
($11.95 pb, 006250939x, March) is a beginner's guide Zil:
to celebrating feminist spirituality. It offers tech-
n dii vqu ide us, a l p rr io tc ue ad lsu .res and suggestions for groups or in- Adult A Cc hh ii ln dg bf yo r M L ao rv ye : A t nh ne KSe lax uu sa nl e rD r aa nm da Bo of b bt ih ee
Internal Affairs: A Journalkeeping Workbook Hasselbring ($10.95 pb, 0062504827, March) ex-
for Self-Intimacy by ex-feminist-bookseller Kay plores the problems of sexuality and intimacy faced
Hagan ($12.95 pb, 0062503715, January) has been by adult children of alcoholics both straight and
picked up by Harper. Many of you have already sold gay.
her self-published edition of this book on the art of Addictive Thinking: Understanding Self-
journal-keeping. (See FBN, vol. 12 #3, p. 13 for more Deception by Abraham Twerski ($7.95 pb,
information on this sale.) 0062553976, April) looks at how the lies we tell our-
Harper is doing a number of books on recovering selves further perpetuate our addictions.
from incest. Victims No Longer by Mike Lew ($14.95 In Hysterectomy — Before and After Winnifred
ip nb g, f00 r6 o0 m9 7 3 c0 h0 i5 ld, h oF oe db r u sear xy ua) l i s a b ua s eg . u i Td he i s f o br o o km e hn a sr e sc oo lv der- C hu yt sl te er r e c($ t9 o. m95 y, s0 h0 o6 u09 ld1 6 2 b9 ex , a v F oe idb er du a r ay n) d ,e x ip fl a i un ns a v w oih dy able,
very well in cloth at our store. what steps should be taken to maintain health after-
Laura Davis has written a companion to her best- wards. Cutler, a reproductive biologist and women’s
seller. The Courage to Heal Workbook ($15.95 pb, health authority, looks at the full range of alternatives
0060904375, February) is a step-by-step guide through to hysterectomy and includes advice on finding a
the healing process. good doctor, hormonal replacement therapy, diet and
exercise.
For your psychology section, Harper will be
l g doing the paperback edition of Gods in Everyman
by Jean Bolen ($8.95 pb, 0060972807, April), the
Harper has always been active in the publication companion volume to Goddesses in Everywoman.
of recovery books. Relationships in Recovery: Heal- Harriet Goldhor Lerner’s The Dance of Intimacy
ing Strategies for Couples and Families by Emily ($9.95 pb, 006091646x, April), looks at how good
Marlin ($8.95 pb, 0060964367, March) shows how to relationships can be strengthened and difficult ones
redefine, reestablish and restructure relationships can be healed. This is not just a book about love
at lh ca ot h o h l.ave floundered or failed under the influence of r Be ol dat yi lo on vs eh : i p Ls e, a r b nu int g a l ts oo Llo io kk e s O a ut r f Lam ooi kly s aa nn dd Of uri re -nds.
The Language of Letting Go by Melody Beattie selves by Rita Freedman ($8.95 pb, 0060916478,
and Scott Egleston ($7.95 pb, 0062553895, April) is a April) explores the conflicts women have about
91 November /December 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:23 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
MASS MARKETS PART II
Compiled by Karen Axness
ST. MARTIN’S PRESS
St. Martin's Press has a number of new paperback
December reprints scheduled for December, including Gay and
The Good Stepmother, Karen Savage & Patricia Lesbian Poetry in Our Time edited by Carl Morse and
Adams, Avon, $4.95, N.F. Joan Larkin ($14.95 pb, 0-312-03836-4). This major, excel-
Luck of the Wheels, Megan Lindholm, Ace, lent collection includes about 200 poems from 1950 to the
$3.50, SF. present by 94 writers. The Bar Stories by Nisa Donnelly
Elysian Fields, Sally Savic, Dell, $7.95, Fic. ($9.95 pb, 0-312-03795-3) is a lesbian novel centered on
Ending, Hilma Wolitzer, Ivy, $3.95, Fic. (reissue). Babe's Bar “somewhere” in San Francisco. Reports from
Rhine Maidens, Carolyn See, Fawcett, $3.95, the Holocaust ($9.95 pb, 0-312-03921-2) is a collection of
Fic. (reissue). political essays by gay activist Larry Kramer, focusing on
Waverly Place, Susan Brownmiller, NAL, the AIDS catastrophe.
$4.95, Fic. o St. Martin's will reprint two mysteries originally
published by The Women’s Press in England. Death
their appearances and shows women how to move Wore a Diadem by Iona McGregor ($15.95 cl, 0-312-
from body loathing to body love. 03812-7, December) is set in Edinburgh, Scotland in 1860.
Women and the Blues by Jennifer James ($8.95 C clh asr si est s a b ae nl d M ha ec rK e ln ez si be i, a n a ly ovou ern g s ew aro cm h a n f o ro f a t h ke il l eu rp .p e Tr he
p onb , w0 h06 at2 5 0 t4 o1 2 d6 o, wJa hn eu na r yy o) u 'o rf ef e dr os w p nr a ac nti dc a l o u s tu . g g Shes et i o pn rs o- author is active in the Scottish gay liberation movement.
vides both long and short term solutions and offers Report for Murder by Val McDermid ($15.95 c], 0-312-
survival strategies for dealing with circumstances 03888-7, January) also features a lesbian sleuth, Lindsay
around and within yourself. Gordon, “self-proclaimed cynical socialist lesbian femi-
nist journalist,” who finds herself investigating the death
You Don’t Have to Suffer by Judy Tatelbaum of a cellist murdered at a fundraiser for a girls school.
($8.95 pb, 0060916451, February) is an inspirational Both seem promising; let's hope they both appear in
and practical handbood to moving beyond life's paperback somewhere down the road.
crises. Tatelbaum shows how to experience the losses,
hardships and disappointments that come our Way MORROW
and let go of them instead of dealing with them in such William Morrow will be publishing Let My
familiar but painful patterns as personalizing them, People In by Rose Mary Denman ($18.95 cl., 0-688-
l ni ev ein dsg . in the past, going it alone and denying our 0 M8 e4 t7 h0 o- d2 i, s t J a Cn hu ua rr cy h), ma i nf ii sr ts et r- p e wr hso on c aa mcc eo u n out t o f as t ah e l e sU bn iait ned
Nancy Mairs’ engaging memoir, Remembering and then struggled to maintain her ministry.
the Bone House ($8.95 pb, 0060916443, April) is an
extraordinary work by a woman who has survived FARRAR, STRAUS & GIROUX
chronic depression, acute agoraphobia and the dis- Charley Bland, Mary Lee Settle’s latest novel will
abling effects of multiple sclerosis. be available from Farrar Straus Giroux ($18.95 c|,
Journalist Neil Miller traveled through the small 0-374-12078-1). Narrated by a widow of thirty-five,
towns, farmland, suburbs and cities of America look- the novel tells of her love affair with the eponymous
ing for the diversity of gay and lesbian life in America. bachelor, with portraits of her family and neighbors.
In Search of Gay America ($8.95 pb, 0060973080, Also from FS&G is Double Identity, a World War II
April) is his compassionate and provocative book memoir by Zofia S. Kubar ($17.95 cl, 0-8090-3957-5)
about men and women living their lives, building of her life in Warsaw after escaping from the ghetto.
communities and families outside the large urban Able to pass as a “non-Jew,” she used her new iden-
centers of the coastal U.S. tity to help other Jews flee. O
November /December 1989 92
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:23 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
BOOKS WANTED Johnston, Jill; Gullible's Travels. Links Books, N.Y.
First Edition HB F/VG $16.
BL oy x n 3n 59 Martin McKee i n C gh , a r Nn .Yas ., HS Bu z y F; / VM Go t h $1er 5l .ines. Berkley Publish-
West Chesterfield, NH 03466 Morga Nn, . Y .C l Fai ir re s; t T Eh de i t iP onri c e F / Vof G S Hal Bt. $C 6o 0w .ard-McCann,
Rukeyser, Muriel. The Uses of Poetry. HB. PB OK. Nicolson, Nigel; Portrait of a Marriage. Atheneum,
N.Y. HB VG/VG $10.
BOOKS OFFERED Rule, Jane; Lesbian Images. Peter Davies, London HB
F/G $15.
Category Six Books Sarton, May; A Reckoning. W.W. Norton, N.Y. First
1029 East 11th Ave. Edition HB G/G $20.
Denver, CO 80218 Sarton, May; Recovering. W.W. Norton, N.Y. First Edi-
303-832-6263 tion HB VG/G $20.
Abott, Sidney and Love, Barbara; Sappho Was a Right- Stearn ds, e n J e Cs is t; y ,T h Ne . Y G . r Hap Be v Gin /e n. o D o Du Jb l e $d 1a 0y . and Co., Gar-
o Hn B W F/o Gm a $n 2. 4 .Stein and Day, N.Y. (multiple copies) Van Deurs, Kady; The Notebooks That Emma Gave Me.
Carte r N, . YA . n g Fe irla s; t T Eh de i t iS oa nd e Hia Bn FW /o Vm Ga n $. 1 0P .antheon Books, TK R a d G y $ 1 0V .an Deurs, Youngsville, N.Y. First Edition
Cather, Willa; Sapphira and the Slave Girl. Alfred Van Deurs, Kady; The Notebooks That Emma Gave Me.
Knopf, N.Y. HB G/no DJ $8. Naiad Press, Tallahassee, FL. TR G $8.
Chalon, Jean; Portrait of a Seductress. Crown Publish- Weigall, Arthur; Sappho of Lesbos: Her Life and Times.
ing, N.Y. First Edition HB F/VG $45. Thornton Butterworth, London. HB G/no DJ $10.
Diamond, Liz; The Lesbian Primer. Women’s Edu- Weirauch, Anna Elisabet; The Scorpion. Willey Book
cational Media, Somerville, MA. TR F $10. Co., N.Y. HB VG/G $20.
Dillon, Millicent; A Little Original Sin. Holt, Rinehart, Wells, Anna Mary; Miss Marks and Miss Woolley.
and Winston, N.Y. First Edition VG HB $20. Houghton Mifflin, Boston. HB F/G $15.
Faber, Doris; The Life of Lorena Hickok. Wm. Morrow **Subject to prior sale, all PPD.
and Co., N.Y. First Edition HB F/F $24.
Gingerlox (McConnell, Vicki); Sense You. Gena Rose HOW IT WORKS
Press, Denver, CO. Paper F $10.
Gingerlox (McConnell, Vicki); Berrigan. Naiad Press, If there are books that you/your customers are
Weatherby Lake, MO. First Edition TR F $15. looking for or want to sell, send your name, address,
Grier, Barbara and Reid, Coletta; The Lesbians Home phone and the authors and titles (and any particulars
Journal. Diana Press, Oakland, CA. TR VG $15. — HB only, Multiple copies wanted, PB OK) to
Grier, Barbara and Reid, Coletta; Lesbian Lives. FBN/Books Wanted / Offered. We'll run your list in the
Diana Press, Oakland, CA. TR VG (2 copies) $18. next issue. Store name, address and phone number
Johnston, Jill; Gullible's Travels. Links Books, N.Y. count as three lines. Each book listing counts as a
First Edition TR VG/G $10. See Out of Print Books, page 96
Volume 12 Number 4 93 November /December 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:23 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsFeminist Bookstore News
Computer Table, Continued FBN’s January issue, assuming that the earth
Cultu rc er e td hit a t f o wr e b ae ri en ..g .. the shaping force in American h seo ll ld ins g s t mill a, g a w zinil el s b ae n da psp erec ioia dl i c ais lss .u e A ro tn i c ls et so c wki in llg f a on cud s
On that theme, watch for a New York Times article on the importance of stocking and selling feminist
o t LWwn es ee b ent ikt aw l ny ye n ' s ayt n y e f da i r ry s s G e t a a or yf Ds e Pcfo e uef m bm lbf ii sn ee hrim s i nt i i n gs i sbs uot teo h k a p ws tr t ie o l ss r l hs ee os is u. n lc dw P lu ui dt b bh el e i s aha vn e e r rs si yad r e t b ii nca lr te e r o o -n n v tp m a inie cs ar d li g ei o o a n z ad fi i n c oc “a e rl Hl e s a o, s nr w a eld e wa e s tm v o e bi tl d o oo s op t koci tn h sch ekg a e ln , l eg e e rsic c sn eo o .lgn n l, o o m me ad ni iic ct d o rs h tt s e ra , a ab l cti t kl hhi t e y po , efi rm k i oppe deoe irp r citi aon a ldn sg i ”c c e a l a s ro , -f
te is ot nin g f.. o. r F bB oN t h h e al rp te id cl e st .o provide background informa- YoCurs a‘til r theo nelxt is sueS! eajay o
Buying from University Presses, Continued
ments for an agency account, like agreeing to carry at
least 10 of their titles all the time, or ordering a min-
imum of 10 copies. I make a point of complaining
We've also been engaged with ABA staff, Con- about this every ABA and take an occasional special
vention Committee, and Board of Directors about the order, but non-trade policies pretty much put those
question of having a feminist bookstore facilitate the presses’ books out of reach. Fortunately, most univer-
Feminist Specialty Bookstore Roundtable at the next sity presses have gone to a 5-copy, mixed title min-
convention. I still fail to understand why this has been imum order. Some will take orders for 3 or 1 at 40% —
a problem — but, as of this writing — it seems 0f to they're not expecting truck-load orders. Returns, too,
be a problem any longer. The Convention Committee can be less than trade-oriented: read the fine print to
and Board of Directors members that I've been work- see if the press has a 12-month time limit or a huge
ing with all seem to concur that a specialty bookstore penalty for returns. Presses with these rules will not
is the obvious choice to facilitate the specialty book- bend them.
store roundtables. We expect a letter from Bernie Rath, How do I build a market? A special interest in
tA iB mA e' s f oE rx e c iu nt ci lv ue s io D ni r e inct o tr h, is c o in ssf uir e.ming this to arrive in scholarly books helps — if you know what to recom-
mend, you can sell some university press books in
Speaking of ABA — the convention committee is almost any location. Think about which customers
still looking for suggestions for panel topics at ABA might be good sources of information...look for con-
this year. ferences of teachers, therapists, etc. to sell at...try
B seo eo mks s t F o tB r hN e a t D i s a a y l n o ao utk m i n t bhg eri s f oo y fr e a r fa ’ es m c o A io nBr isd A ti n ia bnt oo o r kL a s s tf oo rr V e e s gt h a ase r. e F I te pm lai nn -ist b s sc tr uhin dog o ieli s n g o t r e a a n co h r g ea rau snt ih z ao a tr t i, o t n ho . er .. lc W oo cs e ap l o g n cos oto m r i t mn og u nk io n tn yoe w cw ot li h lt eeh g e w ,a o aml no ec dnal ’s
en si tn eg d , t o p l ea at st ee n gd i, v e d e msp ei t e a t ch ale l . lo Ifc a t yio on u. ' r eI f i ny to eu r' er se t e din t be ur t- t fh orey o rb ie eg na tn a t it oo n b tr oi un rg s . t Th hei er ti en ac co hm eri sn g a n c dla s as e s f e t wo st th ue d e s nt to sre
s Fk ue llp t Cic ia rl c, le c a (l 5l 0 5la -s 2t 6 6 -y 0e 0a 2r 2’s ) c to oo r sd ei en a hto or w M ma ur cy h M (ao nr dr e l hl o wat buy the university press offerings; more students who
met us this way come in for feminist press fiction and
manageable) the work was. women’s music. I also found a sort of critical-mass
Last but not least, I want to thank Jane Troxell of
L B h Ga o a im odo v kb as td nt oa o n r i r 'eR ses i s s i Ri c gn oo ng ol u m m ff ro n o fr s m o u h f n e o t dr r h e e r G t h ja Eoy e db l M a Hds u ee t rn e m ’s y t ae o naL r ci t et ,ia mf n wo ed r h p o a F r ee dh sm isa duli f n r .i e t s s ht S . ehe's e c c ff r o ruif ot le m, dc t t g u oa e st t , t h A wmem eo rpa wez o o i o nn t nt: h a w tnt hh h eae o mtn n ea w ac wa be d o a e o ymg k o i ft c o r n oc c m e u r ts t ht a to ei hm in r e e r s s cse h a c m ot t pi h po pn o uiu n ss , g g h b l t oi l k oi s ke t t h - eli yt
c co ol lu um mn n b onri e f anly d a w if lle w b e gy ie na r s i n a g to h, e h na es x ta g ir se se ud e . to take the ts lt o 'lo o lr . e . S pe H n rda ip n p m til ey , t s h tt r eh a me ty eg i b e iu s n y t ho fat t uh t e hr u a r vt e eh i n w cg o os r lk uw e mde nfal o sr r .e a d y Oy ou c a ar nr dy,
November /December 1989 94
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:23 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
NewsSage, Continued
Michelson knows that many working women’s
budgets won't stretch to buy expensive books, so she Index of Advertisers
runs a “low budget” office and cuts her profit margin Alyson Publications ....................52
on paperbacks in order to keep the retail costs down Banned Books ............ s-e...
while still producing high quality, beautiful books. Beacon Press ................. «-.......18
NewSage’s fall release is Exposures: Women & Bookpeople ...... «seee. e..eeo.......16
Their Art with text by Betty Brown and Arlene Raven Cornell University Press .......…. en... 22
and photographs by Kenna Love. According to Mi- Harper & Row/New York ............ 70,84
ec sh se al yso s n , i n “ T th he is c bo om ob ki n ra et vio en al s o f t h c eo l co rr e a p tih vo et o sg pr ia rp ih t s a nan d d talent Harper & Row/SF ........... . . .. .C3,48,88
of contemporary women artists in the United States, Hunter House Inc. ......................78
and what they have to say through their art.” It is a
beautiful, magical book in which the photo images of ILR Press ........ stos- neaenen.a.. SI
tt hh ee war ot ris kt s i ta sn eld f . their work mirror or evoke the style of Jewel's Graphics ........................82
Multiple Dimensions ...... ee.e.........C2
Michelson plans to publish three to five books a Naiad Press ........... «e"s. en.... 65
year. “Thank goodness for distributors like Book- NewSage Press .................. ...... 66
people who are willing to deal with small, one and
two-title presses. And thank goodness for inde-
pendent bookstores looking for quality books. Other- 34
Wise, it would have been impossible to make our .......
b Nook es w av Sail aab gle e t o t Phe r epu sbl sic , a tnd o im gpos rsi oble w f .o ”r O eseo. ee- erea... lA
AN _ Southern Illinois Univ. Press .............C4
Jeremy P. Tarcher, Inc. ............. ...-...86
Univ. of California Press .................
Writer's Conference, Continued University of Chicago Press ..............
t oshh f ie p l eg sba bey it a/ w nle es e ab n ni a d n s m gw a al yr l it p mer r a, e t s esa r n iaad ln . da n to rt ah de er po rn e s st h e p u br le il sa ht eio rn s- U UU n nn iv iei vrv s ee it rr y ss ii o tt f y y N e v oo a ff da P OM r kei sn ls a n h...e . o.s .. m.o ...t . a.a PP rr ee ss ss .. .. .. .. .… .... . e .. -as. Sn 8S
Suggested workshops range from the practical to University of Texas Press ...............
the theoretical and include: organizing writers, the Volcano Press ......... es'e ese nenenes
double marginalization of writers of color, censorship, BERS
erotic versus pornographic material, genre writing, Wolfe Video ............. esesenenenaans . 5
money matters, closeted writing, how to create a book Word Weavers .................:.-......1 w
proposal, writer's block and how to deal with it,
what sells and what doesn’t, self-revelation in fic-
tion and poetry, journal writing, and the economics The planning committee includes Dorothy Al-
of publishing. lison, Jeff Escoffier, Roberto Bedoya, Lew Elling-
The planning committee is particularly interested ham, Amber Hollibaugh, Amy Sholder, and Matias
in hearing about potential workshop topics which fit Viegener.
into the general purposes of this conference and For further information contact Jeff Escoffier or
would like to hear from people interested in becoming DFororthya Anllicsoni. s 41c5-o626 -7 92C9. APO Bo x 9 46404310, 4 Sa6n. O
a member of a panel or workshop.
95 November/December 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:23 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThe Feminist Bookstore News
Poetry, Continued
CLASSIFIED ADS you're nervous about making up a minimum order,
send for a catalogue. This little press has recently
& LITERARY PERSONALS published a strong collection of stories by Beverley
Daurio (Justice) and has some interesting children’s
BOSSIENESEAR SISESE books as well.
When ordering new Anne Cameron titles from
WORK Canada’s Harbour Publishing, why not sample new
poetry as well? This fall Harbour has released The Girls
Publish Activist Books: The South End Press col- in the Last Seat Waving (C$ 7.95 pb, 1-55017-000-7) by
Maureen McCarthy, a distinctive voice whose poems are
tle ioct ni v e b, o o a k s n o con v-p err io nf git a p u rb al nis gh ee r o f o f p r o ov ge rr e s s1 i5 v0 e n poo ln it-f ici ac l- n imot a g ec se ,n t wer ie td h i in co nh ie cr , sp ye mrs bo on la il ci t y si, g nb iu ft ic ai nn c e .t i g Ifh t y c oh u a i hn as v eo f a
t wo ip ti hc s , a is h e ac lu tr hr ye n lt uly st s fe oek r i n bg o o kan s o t th oe r j o ip no l i ot uic ra l c oac llt ei cv ti is vt e. l sa er !)g e c as ue sc et si ,o n T ha en d D rc yan W s eu lp lsp o r ont g Inoo dd ia ( en do in t- ef de m bi yn i s Gt- ep orer ge
The full-time position involves all aspects of manu- Woodcock with a foreword by Margaret Atwood (C$
script solicitation and editing, computerized book 8.95 pb, 1-55017-001-5) is a handsome anthology of male
tp mir v eo e nd t u . mc M t a Ki eno nmn a og, b w e e m lra e s de nv g ma t er . a i oket fey , a a o n f t d w b o cu - oys mi en a me rs is t m m t i ea n ns ik tm s , u t m oa ,n d c p o r m oco gml rl ee it sc s-- ive a V dn rild ol ua g gf e he m t A a sil d te r ipp kro ee o nt j es c; a t r a e l atl so r obo fy u ia l nl dt o i e rds t a h m -g wo s e sat tno e d r na d C i Ig na n d a iw ad .ea l l sI n id nia
ideas and activism is essential. (We are particularly Adventurous readers among your clientele? If
interested in activists whose perspectives include at- they are looking for benign but wildly imaginative
tention to class, race, feminism, grassroots democracy writing, recommend poetry as mini-fantasy: Water
and ecology.) Ability to work in a collective setting is Walker by Nancy Willard, whose kids’ books or whose
also required. Publishing skills and experience are a fantasy novel about basebal], Things Invisible to See, you
d tre af ii nn a t te h e p l ru is g h b tu t p ea rr se o n n .ot absolutely essential. We will m ina y C a nal ar de aa d y fr ok mn o w R a n(K don mop ).f , I fU S t$ h e 9 y. 9 5 a r ep b l, o o0 k- i6 n7 g9 - 7 f2 o1 r7 1 l- a1 n, -
Collective members’ salaries are $20,000/year guage that imitates the movement of sub-atomic parti-
with full benefits., including a daycare allowance for cles, recommend poetry as minimalist music: way by
parents of young children. L 3e 2sl 0ie - X S ,c al a ip nin o C ( aN no ar dth a P foi rn ot, m U S $ C o1 l2 l. i0 e0 r p b M, a0 c-8 m65 i4 l7 la- n). O
If you are interested, send a resumé and letter
describing your political and publishing experience.
Women of color and lesbians particularly encouraged Out of Print Books, Continued
to M apply.A Sout h En0d P2ress1, 1116 S5t. B.ot olp h ; St., Boston, separate line (48 characters /line maximum) $.60/ line.
Mark all listings either “Wanted” or “Offered.” Pay-
ment is due with the listing. Your customers are wel-
TRAVEL GUIDES come to list titles if you don’t want to track their
requests.
Key International Guide: 450+ Accom’s worldwide The simplest way to respond to “Books Wanted”
for gay M/W /Others. Write: Leehei, POB 406, Miami, is to send a postcard specifying the book you'd like to
FL 33233 for price, quantity. sel], your name, address and phone number, the book's
condition and the price you'll sell it for. (Include post-
FBN Classified Ads $2 per 25 characters. 25% dis- age in the price.) If the bookstore wants to buy your
count for 3+ insertions paid at one time. Payment copy, they'll send you a check and you send the book
must accompany ad. No charge for “Help Wanted” | by return post.
listings up to 100 words. Send to FBN, PO Box If you want a book that is being offered, your best
882554, San Francisco, CA 94188. ©) bet is to get on the phone! O
Volume 12 Number 4 96 November / December 1989
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:23 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsA lavish celebration of the
Goddess-worshipping
culture of prehistoric Europe,
as documented in its rich and
enduring symbols by the
premier arcmasalgis “Delightfully readable...
Marija Gimbutas. 2-co/or illus. pointing the way to the reas-
throughou t s, e cp tlu is o nsp .e c ia $l 4 f 9u .l 9l- 5co l o hr ardcover s e os fs m te hn et ba an sd es r oe fc o n hs ut mitu anti o n rela-
tions.” — Ashley Montagu.
Scores of color and monochrome
illus. $22.50 paperback;
$34.95 hardcover
Tie Power
of the Goddess
Revealed
The classic that transformed
the womenț spirituality
movement, written by one of
its best-known leaders, now
revised and updated to reflect
the dramatic changes of the
past decade. $12.95 paperback
The renowned witch Z
Budapest offers women a
wealth of ancient and
special occasions or everyday
events in this practical guide
illustrated with line drawings.
$13.95 paperback F H aSrapne r F r&a@n c iRscoow
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:23 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/termsThats right...just Place your order
today—either
in the Ad Feminam h- directly to Southern
series a oIl rin o ti hs r oU un gi hv e r ts hi ety Press
(title selection is C Prol eu ssm b Si aa l e sUniversity
Up to you) Consortium.
and we'll give you
g2
black T-shirt 4
celebrating this
highly acclaimed
series in
literary criticism.
AD FEMINAM: CHRISTINA ROSSETTI
Women and Literature The Poetry of Endurance
Series Editor: By Dolores Rosenblum. (1269) $24.95
Sandra M. Gilbert
Coming in January...
MARGARET ATWOOD WRITING IN THE
Vision and Forms THE LITERARY FEMININE
J gE (r1da ani 4pt e h 0Gd i8c a ar )b l d y e F n $ oK 2r aC e4t wah .s o9rt ryr 5don . bVW ya in t MShp a a ran gnc a k r ea eur t et no Ab t iao wn- od od. MGE aX E deRI lS yM nT E A GN uI tNC wEE ir th D .O E (F 1 3 87S )T $A 22E .5L 0 BF W ye m r Ki ai t rn ei nni s g Gm o u i l dna . n (1d Q 5 8u 2e )E bx $e 3p 2c .e 5r 0imental
W iH T nhE A e tS K h I N enR dE IG NeW pH o e vT nS ed lH seE n ot f Woman BE EL ym xU p WN i el eA y r ndi C e y Y n D B ci a c e rO k k eF i o rn .f s ( L o 1 3I n M 1G 6 )H e a t $T n a 22pd .5h 0 ot rhe T N oR fHE e wF E PI G a F F tU A reR m iT aI rHN in cEG hiR s yt Reading
Anthony Trollope Edited by Patricia Yaeger and Beth
By Jane Nardin. (1484) $27.95 SOUTHERN ILLINOIS K No anw ca yle s k Ki .- W Ma il ll la ec re .. (W 15i 2t 9h ) a $n 3 2 .A 50fterword by
UNIVERSITY PRESS
This content downloaded from
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)70.126.145.227 on Sat, 19 Mar 2022 17:42:23 UTC(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms